ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e26	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e29	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Per-Willy Amundsen, Torkil Åmland, Anders Anundsen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals to increase the use of binding referendums in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e34	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e37	On behalf of the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am pleased to propose a representative proposal for the creation of a separate regulatory board.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will inform you that the Presidency has decided that the next Wednesday will not be held oral Question Time. Instead, it will be a statement by the Prime Minister, with the possibility of follow-up to the parliamentary leaders. The background to the presentation is – as the Stortinget has heard, but is not officially known – that the Government is in the process of launching a very comprehensive consultation on future employment in Norway. The Presidency, in consultation with the Prime Minister's office, has concluded that the type of central debate should allow Stortinget to be part of. In view of this, the Prime Minister wishes to make a statement followed by a round of comments by the parliamentary leaders. So that's going to be the point on the agenda next Wednesday, replacing oral question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e68	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete State Council Trond Gish State Council Erik Solheim The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e87	I will be allowed to ask questions to the Minister of Industry. Over the last few days, and also today, we have been informed that the state-aided environmental activist Kurt Oddekalv intends to launch a campaign against Norwegian farmed salmon – and thus also against Norwegian business. Based on the statements made by the environmental activist Oddekalv, it is obvious that he intends to try, along with other organisations, to hit Norwegian businesses in general, and the farming industry in particular, hard abroad. This is worrying, especially when we know that the person is also receiving State aid. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is this: Will the Minister for Economic Affairs take the initiative of both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to adopt a common strategy and ensure that funds are put in place to enable action to be taken against the organisation of Oddekalv and similar organisations abroad that intend to destroy Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e96	The public spends quite a lot of money marketing Norwegian business abroad. After all, the fishing industry, aquaculture and salmon production are a success story. Norwegian salmon is going incredibly well in the world. We make a lot of money on it. The prices are good. It forms the basis for many important district jobs. At the same time, we know from the last few months that there is an industry that also has certain environmental challenges. We must tolerate this debate in a democratic and open country. It must be allowed for critics to make different claims. It must even be allowed in Norway to make false claims. Then we as the authorities together with the industry must both correct what is wrong, and at the same time respond to the claims that are false. Of course, it is unfortunate if various Norwegian interests try to destroy Norwegian business abroad. This may mean that we need to have a further reinforced effort, including: in order to counteract the claims made out. We should be aware of that and of course cooperate with, for example. Norwegian embassy staff and the U.D. if this type of information is necessary in different countries. But we have to endure the debate. It's one of the sides of a democratic society, that people can believe what they want, they can even say it out loud. Then we'll have to counteract the adverse effects if it goes beyond important interests for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e105	That's not the debate you're afraid of. The debate is to be held, and it goes, and the farming industry is also obviously facing its challenges. My question to the Council of State is whether he will do a job to be prepared. What's the problem is that if we come after, the damage may already have happened in a market that has taken many, many years to build up. Therefore, it is important that we put forward strategies in advance, cross-ministerially, so that we have instruments that the Committee on Fish Exports can carry out. It has been said that the foreign stations must be prepared so that they can respond to the unfounded claims made by environmental activist Kurt Oddekalv. Therefore, my follow-up question to the Council is: is there now a work in the ministry to try to achieve a common strategy in this field? We have looked at the news today, among other things. that Odekalv is already in Spain and has started its campaign. This cannot continue with State aid granted to Oddekalv.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e114	I just have to say that I understand very well the problem of defending the aquaculture industry against false claims, ensuring that we can export Norwegian salmon, and respond to the attacks that are coming, while at the same time correcting the errors that are. But I just have to say that I react to the fact that you have to connect, for example. State aid granted to various organisations with what they think. If it were to happen that we were to start exempting state aid to various organisations, whether it was in the environment, aid or political parties because they think something that the state thinks is unpleasant or difficult, or that goes against the interests of the state, we are on completely wild roads. It surprises me a party like the Progress Party, which is constantly having opinions across what the majority in Norway have, really thinks that we should connect that kind of thing. We have had this debate also in my old field, in the field of religion, if we were to link state aid to different demands, etc. Then I have discovered that the Progress Party is of a completely different opinion. They should be in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e119	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Torgeir Tåldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e122	I would like to ask the follow-up question to Minister for the Environment, Solheim. The Minister of Industry says that you have to be able to count on someone making false claims, and that may be so. But I do not entirely agree with that. If you run a company and you sponsor a sport, and that sport goes against the company, it is not quite natural that that company will continue to be positive about sponsoring. So to my question: Norway's Environmental Protection Association and Kurt Odd Kalv are receiving State aid from the Ministry of the Environment for 250,000 kroner. Does the Council of State consider it right for an organisation trying to hit Norwegian jobs and Norwegian industry with undocumented claims to be rewarded with state support? My second question is: Will the Council of State take initiatives to remove State aid to the Environmental Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e129	The answer to the first question, which is also answered by Trond Giske, is a roaring yes! At the moment the state starts to disapprove of support for the organizations because we don't like or because we disagree with what they say, we're in a slide that I don't think anyone in the Storting wants. We have a variety of organisations that come up with positions that are contrary to the interests of the state, which are opposed to different industries in Norway, which we find unpleasant. We still give them state aid, and if Trond Giske and I were to be the top judges over who deserves support, and who does not deserve support, I think we are on a track that the Progress Party will be the first to call out warning against in many other areas. I think the Progress Party here should adhere to some principles, namely that we do not distribute support because we agree with organisations, but we distribute support on a much wider basis. I must also say that the best answer to some of the challenges Oddekalv brings, and also when he makes false claims, is that the aquaculture industry sees itself in the same way as industry saw itself in the 1970s and 1980s, as an industry with a major challenge, a very important industry for Norway, but that must address its own environmental problems and solve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e138	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e142	We can continue with the Minister for the Environment since he's already up here. Last week I had the pleasure of discussing these problems in the Minister of Industry's own constituency, in the South-Tronde Team, with Kurt Oddekalv and not least with all those associated with the salmon industry, who run tourism there, river owners, landowners and not least state politicians and municipal politicians. What comes out there, both in terms of the farming industry and taking care of the wild, and not least in terms of business, tells me that we need a slightly more comprehensive debate on this. That is why I can welcome both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for the Economy that, on Monday, an interpellation was sent to the Prime Minister with the wish that the department concerned would come to the Stortinget to discuss this. I hope that the Minister for the Environment believes that this is a good initiative, and now he will support this, that we have a broad debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e151	I think it is absolutely crucial to have a broad debate on the challenges facing the farming industry. On the one hand, the breeding industry is an incredibly important industry for Norway, one of the most important coastal industries, one of the largest export income servers in Norway. So it's an incredibly important industry for Norwegian society and for Norwegian settlement. But it is also an industry that may have one of the biggest environmental problems some Norwegian industry has. We've seen the salmon situation lately, and we see the large number of escaped farmed fish. We have had a decline in the wild salmon population in Norway, which is now just about a quarter of what it was in the 1980s, which is dramatic, not because of the farming industry alone, but also because of the farming industry. My call for the farming industry is to look at itself in the same situation as industry was in the 1970s and 1980s: an important industry, but with a major environmental problem. The industry has taken hold of it. Today, industrial pollution is an almost non-existent problem in Norwegian society, and if the farming industry can act in the same way as industry, it will go from being a positive industry with major problems to just being a positive industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e163	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e166	The question of follow-up is also addressed to the Minister for the Environment. The Christian People's Party will not give any unreserved support to Kurt Oddekalv – on the contrary. We are very happy and relieved to hear the Government be so clear in this round that one distinguishes between state aid and assessment of the opinions of the various organisations. The Minister for the Environment has now made it clear that he sees that the farming industry has major environmental challenges. He has actually written to the Swedish Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and said that the main reason for today's situation in the wild is that we do not control the environmental impact of the farming industry. The questions raised by the Minister for the Environment will then be: Does the Minister for the Environment agree with the Minister for Industry, who has just said that the breeding industry is a success story? Does the Minister for the Environment agree that there may be a need to assess countermeasures against campaigns abroad, which say that the farming industry is not sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e177	Let me first say that Kurt Oddekalv must be very satisfied with the attention he gets here. I think that's exactly what he wants. Of course, if Kurt Oddekalv makes mad claims, Norwegian foreign stations will help put the truth in the right way, so make sure that the claims are met. We have to distinguish between responding to Kurt Oddekalv's claims and withdrawing money because we disagree with what the Swedish Environment Agency does. I honestly believe that the Storting understands what kind of gale we're going on in whose government and greatness would start to distribute money depending on whether we agree or disagree with what different organizations do. So until the farming industry is a success story. Yes, it is a dwindling success story economically, as a housing factor and in terms of earning export income to Norway, but it may also be that industry in Norway with the biggest environmental problem. That environmental problem has to be solved. No one else can solve it for them. We can contribute, but the industry now has to deal with it with a different power than it has now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e186	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e189	The question is for the Minister of Industry. I would first like to commend the Minister of Industry for his new and strong interest in both business and small and large capitalists, to put it this way. At the NHO conference, a few comments came to the fore, where the Minister of Industry said: "Let's stand up in business-friendly Norway for those who have the courage and the will to bet. Right couldn't say better. Furthermore, a site in Norway is an older business owner who is preparing to transfer the enterprise to the next generation. We have to be there for him, too. But last week in Troms Folkeblad, they write about the Nergård group. It is not perceived that the Minister of Economic Affairs is there for them. There, the young people, who were to enter the company in a few years' time, have to sell their shares because they have to have money to pay property taxes. Then the government isn't there for them. I have to say that the government's intention is to bring the property tax, you can now see the results. My question today is: After this extensive contact that the Minister for Industry has had, has he got the impression that property taxes and inheritance taxes are a significant disadvantage for Norwegian-owned enterprises, as they are produced from companies and from 10 business organisations? Setting up for those who have the courage and the will to bet, does it also include a change in these taxation rules? This is something that the Minister of Industry can influence, as opposed to contracts that go out of the country and that he can't do anything about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e200	Let me first recommend the Fleet to continue quoting from my speeches. It dresses him well, and it gives his posts high quality. This does not mean that although we agree with some objectives, we necessarily agree on all the instruments. That's why we're different parties and we have different opinions. I am aware of what part of business says about the property tax and also about the inheritance tax. I am also aware that very many people in the business community believe that we in Norway have a very good corporate tax, and that it is a good country to run business in. I would like to say that the way Norway has coped with the financial crisis clearly shows that the Norwegian model of public-private cooperation, with instruments that are available when financial markets or the real economy are poor, is very good. We still have unemployment in Norway down to 3pst. In the EU and the United States, it is now 10 pst. In some countries it is beginning to approach 20 pst. In Spain, youth unemployment is up to 50 pst. We're a miracle story. So it can't be that Norway is a very difficult country to run business in. Then I've said, and it's absolutely right that we have to be there for those who are preparing the generation shifts in the companies. It's about framework conditions, certainly, but it's also about such things as skills support systems, where the one who's going to give up his life's work, which he's built up for many years, let go of the business and give new generations the opportunity, get advice, support and guidance, but perhaps also that the generation that's going to take over, who might see things in a slightly different way, and who needs a different source of help and support than the one who's run the business before, also gets it. I think that kind of system we can do a lot to contribute to good generation change. There are many family-run businesses ready to be taken over by new generations, and there we also have to set up the systems that are needed to help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e213	I'm disappointed, and I think all the business people who filled the Opera in January would have been if they had heard the Minister of Industry now fall back to general rhetoric about the Norwegian model and how to solve the financial crisis. That's actually not what this is about. What's my credit here is whether it doesn't make any sense to the Minister of Industry when we read these kinds of stories that generational transitions are being made difficult, almost impossible, because we have rules that push the youth out of selling, instead of having rules that bring them in. That is the answer the Minister of Industry must give here, not in general about how to solve past problems and that unemployment is low. I know, many know, but the Nergård group wants to hear something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e220	I accept that there are certainly companies, individuals and business organisations that believe things that are different from what the Government believes, and we shall listen to them. We must listen to the arguments, the views and the experience. But I just have to note that neither the Right when they were in government for four years and gave tax credits of 20 billion kroner, found room to remove the property tax – the then finance minister sitting in the hall here – was given a different priority than that. So even the Right did not believe that this was the most precarious problem for Norwegian business. They may even have seen that this had some distribution effects that were not only unfair but that may also have broken the basis of the entire tax system, in that they prefer to avoid these zeros downwards in the table of those people who have the most money in Norway. I'm open to discussing all the rules and systems. But we need a system that is fair, and that works, that ensures the community's income, and that facilitates good business development. I note that the Right did not give priority to this either when they were in government for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e227	There will be four follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e231	I would recommend the Minister of Industry to get down from his high pedestal if he were to succeed as Minister of Industry, for there is no doubt that the government we now have has tightened up to the wealth tax and increased it considerably since 2005. The ownership that Nergård represents is incredibly important for the whole of District Norway, and now it's getting serious in many places. The Minister of Industry says to provide advice, support and guidance. There are questions about whether you can afford to sit as an owner. It must be possible to make an impression on the Minister of Industry when unauthorized heirs may be pressured to sell their father’s life’s work because they have taxes and taxes that kill them. The tax on wealth is very negative in terms of jobs, the possibility of creating new jobs, and it is particularly severe in District Norway. Nergård has shown social responsibility. I want to ask the Minister of Industry, if he understands something about social responsibility: will the Minister of Industry also show the social responsibility that he goes to his boss and says that I should avoid becoming a flop as Minister of Industry, must the wealth tax be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e240	I don't think I'm going to make my business career depend on a yes or no to the property tax. I think business policy is about a lot more. I also believe that industrial policy is about a lot more than tax policy. Although the framework conditions for taxes and taxes are important, there is a strong interaction between public utilities — whether it is helping entrepreneurs with capital or guidance, or whether it is making an extraordinary effort in a financial crisis, or whether it is the education system that makes us have a skilled workforce, providing skills for businesses — which makes Norway so incredibly good. It was said here that business would not hear about the financial crisis. Well, at least that's how I think a lot of companies are happy that they're in Norway and not in other countries. I again find that with the property tax, the Right did little when they were in government. In terms of inheritance tax, which was the second theme here, we have done a lot more in the last five years, among other things. by increasing the amounts of allowances, other than those ever done by the Right of Government. That's when you're in power doing the right things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e247	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e250	It's probably soon time for the government to talk about its own policy and not about the government that went off relatively many years ago, eventually. I noticed that the Council of State in its response to the representative Fleet said that what they wanted to invest in was competence and support systems for those who were going to take over the companies. But the problem is that part of the family-run businesses can't afford to take over the next generation. That's what's the question here. It serves the government to the credit that he has traveled a lot around and gained expertise from both large and, hopefully, small and medium-sized enterprises and family-run enterprises. The big question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State, with an open mind, now consider removing and lowering the property tax and inheritance tax, because in the districts it is precisely the local ownership and the family-owned enterprises that Norwegian industry is often under the guise of?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e259	I'm not going to stand here and open to remove the property tax. In part, there is another department dealing with the kind of rules, and in part, this is the issue that we deal with in each budget. But to have an open mind I'm very positive to. Listening to the companies, being out and talking to them and experiencing how they look at their opportunities for growth, to employ more, to export more and to create viable businesses, is the way we're going to work – talking to them every day trying to get productivity, trying to get new market shares and trying to win the competition with not just other Norwegian companies, but in tough global markets where Norwegian technology and Norwegian companies are doing great work every day. This is in my view something that is about a lot more than the taxes on wealth. In general, I believe that we in Norway have a good corporate tax – positive for the companies – which makes Norwegian companies competitive, even with the high cost level and the standard of living we have in Norway. We will take care of that and develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e266	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e269	I understand that the mindset has been given a boost in the Government. That's a good promise. I intend to develop one of the parties that has a clear view of the wealth tax and working capital, that is, the Center Party. Here the Christian People's Party and the Center Party stand together quite well – it may be worth remembering in these days as well. Lundteigen, who had a tough campaign on this, said to the Newspaper bureau: ‘We are engaged in removing the tax on operating resources such as tractors, trucks and buildings. In the Central Party, we have now concluded that shares are not to be regarded as working capital." And he continued: ‘I have thought of this proposal in the poultry. It is not useful to have such thoughts on the Stortinget». To me, it doesn't matter where the good thoughts come from, and where they're thinking, but there's actually something in Soria-Moria about this. My question is not where the council thinks about this, but what he thinks about this, and what thoughts he thinks a Norwegian business can benefit from in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e288	As a descendant of small families on both the mother and father sides, I have great respect for what is thought of in the poultry, and for people who work practically every day to get the wheels to walk around in the agricultural industry as well. I think I should leave to my colleague Brerk to take the framework conditions for the agricultural industry. But again: there are also many who spend their own savings and invest in equipment, make sure to hire people, run their businesses, which is hugely important in district employment. Now I also hear the Christian People's Party join the Right and the Advance Party's criticism of the tax on wealth. If the left, which is the next question, also joins it, it becomes the big mystery: why didn't you do any of the world's things with this when the four parties had a majority? It must be that even if the years go by, you have to be prepared for what you actually do when you adopt the state budget four years in a row, and not what you say in fine words when you finally get back into opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e295	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e298	It's probably a reality that's going to come through the government, that income and expenditure have to be connected, and that you've had a very large space of action in the last few years that you may not have had before. But I'm actually going to ask about just a little bit of the wealth tax, the stock discount, which this government has been strangling over and over again, which makes it harder and harder to use its savings to create jobs. Now it is the case that this Council of State has shown great boldness to clean up after former ministers of industry in many areas in relation to the relationship with the big boys. Is the Council also willing to clean up in relation to the small ones – those who are willing to use their money to create jobs instead of placing them in houses? What the government has put up to now is to save money in the house if you're going to do something, not save money to create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e305	There is a part of business that says that they are concerned that some capital objects, for example: investment in commercial real estate, but also other types of housing stock, is taxed differently from production capital. But I don't have the impression that the opposition is thinking about changing the property and housing tax. On the contrary, in this city, where the bourgeois rulers, you have removed the property tax. Thus, the community is being deprived of income and these investment objects become more favourable than shares and means of production. That's the reality of the government that the Left is holding on to right in Oslo. Once again, there's something about life and learning here. One cannot both say that this is completely wrong, and at the same time implement the policy to an even greater extent where one is actually in power. We don't have any tax systems that are hogd in stone. On the contrary, we have faced reforms that have been in favour of business, and we will listen to them in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e313	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e316	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. 2010 is a demanding year for industry in Norway. Many enterprises report a decline in investment, and turnover growth is slowing despite significant adaptability in many industries and individual enterprises. Some industries and businesses have so far been shielded from the crisis due to well-filled order books before the crisis occurred, but now these difficult times face. This applies to enterprises all over the coast, and this is about jobs. Therefore, there was considerable tension as to whether the contract for the supply of a liquid oil production unit to the Goliath field would fall to the Norwegian supplier industry. On Monday, the reply was that Korean Hyundai was selected in front of Norwegian Aker Solutions – a contract that would have given well over 7 000 annual works in Norway. The Petroleum Act states that resource management will contribute to ‘strengthening Norwegian industry and industrial development’. I would like to ask the government to look at what means we have to enforce the law at this point. This may include, inter alia: be stricter requirements for the granting of licences and stronger requirements for national content when the development plans are approved. This concerns the matter of Goliath, but also future projects, such as the development of Gudrun and new housing platform in Ekofisk, for which expectations are now being created. It is speculated whether Korea is subsidising its own firms in crisis. In that case, this will be a matter for the WTO. Employee representative Atle Teigland in Aker Solutions believes that the allocation of Goliath development remains as a monument to Norwegian political naivety and inescapability. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e331	There is no doubt that it was disappointing that Aker Solutions did not win the big Goliath contract. But that's the way it is in the business world: you win some contracts, and you lose some. In the same way that Norway wins international contracts and Norwegian companies become competitive in expanding both oil and gas fields in Brazil, Russia or other countries, we also need to accept that sometimes Norwegian contracts go to foreign companies. This does not mean, however, that we should not be active and ensure that Norwegian companies get contracts. Even the Petroleum Act states that expanding in Norway will contribute to ring-effects. We need to be as active as other countries in facilitating national content. I'm not a follower of an evil circle where countries close up more and more and make sure that contracts are earmarked only for their own companies, not just because I think it's bad shops to destroy the competitiveness and development of every country's economy, but I think it will also harm Norwegian companies, because I think Norwegian companies have technology, opportunities, competence and competitiveness far beyond their own borders. The balance between ensuring that Norwegian companies have technologies and competences and competitive conditions that make them powerful, and taking them up internationally when we see that countries with different instruments enter a grey zone or cross the border with international legislation, and ensure that these mechanisms are removed, will be my approach. That's why I'm taking this up wherever I travel. If I'm in China, if I'm in Brussels and I'm talking to the European Commissioner responsible for competition, or if I'm in other countries, we're dealing with this with the conditions of competition – that we have to have a level playing field for everyone, and that we have to avoid subsidising our own businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e340	I expect that the Council of State believes – and that we agree – that there is a crisis in the industry, and that it is a difficult period we go into along the coast. After all, the state councils themselves have created enormous expectations. I myself was at the yard conference in Ålesund in the fall, and what the Council of State said then was that we should follow the development of the industry closely. But since then it has been quite silent. And the Christian People's Party has, through several questions in the Questionnaire, challenged the Council of State on various proposals for action that we believe are important to the industry. Then I wonder, what will the Council of State do to strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, so that we can get rid of the financial crisis that is now hitting this industry so hard?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e345	Let me first say that I have every sympathy and compassion for those who are affected, who lose their jobs, who have taken the chance of a career in a competitive industry, and who experience the job disappearing. That's tough. First of all, we need to set up for all of them and for their families, to ensure that new work is possible, to ensure that new contracts come in, and also to facilitate any transition to other industries where necessary. What's extra tough in this industry is that these are big companies in small communities – the representative knows well from his own country. That's why it's getting even tougher. What we need to see in our eyes is that the global market has collapsed. The number of ship contractions was 95 pst. lower than expected in 2009. It also affects Norwegian shipyards. We cannot build boats that are not needed. Then we have to convert, then we have to facilitate innovation and new technology. There, the state can use its instruments actively. Then we have to use the funding mechanisms we have – whether it is GIEK or Export Finance – to ensure that Norwegian companies are able to win the contracts that are actually announced. There I think we can also improve the arrangements and make even better arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e352	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e355	There are important issues that Andersen Eide has raised in the question. The councils have challenged the Storting up to several times in the short time he has spoken, that we should all take responsibility for our past. Then I have to say that for those of us who remember, it is fascinating to hear red-green government councils now comment on the award of the contract to Goliath in relation to the then energy policy spokeswoman Sylvia Brustad, two major periods ago, commented, both here in the hall and elsewhere, when the Snow White contract was awarded. Then there was a completely different approach. The offshore industry has challenges. We know that the shipbuilding industry has major challenges. Commonly, they need research and innovation to get out of the demanding situation, not least in renewable energy, and to exploit their core markets. The question is: will the Council take the initiative of a research and innovation programme for the maritime and offshore industries in order to exploit the potential of future contracts and renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e366	President and former Minister of Industry! This is an area that we've been working on for many years. Among other things, the red-green government made sure to grant 7 million. kr for a preliminary study on a new marine technology centre in a city that the representative should know well, just to be in the forefront of technology. We're never going to be able to compete with Chinese shipyards or South Korean shipyards on compensation of employees, nor are we going to compete on it. But we can compete by being in front of technology. We can develop new hulls that are more environmentally friendly, that save resources. We can use other energy sources and reduce emissions. We can be in the forefront in terms of navigation technology or other technologies. And we can participate in the adventure called offshore wind, wind power at sea. Statoil and Statkraft just won the license for the world's largest offshore wind power field, and the fact that we're going to participate with our companies and develop technology is absolutely something we're working on, together with the oil and energy minister and with Enova, SIVA and all the instruments we have to facilitate it. So there we're going to make a lot of effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e373	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e376	I'm glad that the Council of States is so wise to point out that one of the most difficult and dangerous things that can come out of the financial crisis is protectionism. Unfortunately, we see some signs – and there are still new claims – that this happens. In the development of Goliath, it was suggested that it could be thought that Korea could also operate by subsidising its shipyards or its operations. Leave it. On a more general basis, I would like to ask the Council of States whether there is now an international effort to review these claims that are coming. Norway also assesses the opening of WTO cases relating to some of the suspicions of State subsidies to shipyards, such as the United Kingdom.? Furthermore, I have another question to the Council of State. The Council of State has repeatedly said that it will come back to the situation in the yard industry. When can we see the result of the work the Council of State has done there?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e385	First, yes, we address the international organisations and also the bilateral question of subsidising the shipbuilding industry. Different schemes may be involved. For example, we were. Concerned about the Spanish tax-lease scheme, which we addressed both with Spain and with the European Commission, but did not provide a basis for raising a case on it. We are concerned about how Chinese shipyards get state capital to finance expansion projects that are cheaper than the yard in, for example. Europe can acquire itself. We must always be aware of that kind of subsidisation. The answer is not that we should participate in the same spiral, which I think we agree completely. The answer is to ensure a level playing field by following the same rules of the game. Now it's not like every time we lose a contract, there's someone who's subsidized. It reminds me a little bit about skiriding, where you have a tendency to think that every time a Norwegian skitter loses, the opponents are baptized. It's not like that. There are good skiers in other countries that we sometimes lose contracts. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e395	In the case of skiing, time is important. This is also true of the Stortinget – in terms of speaking time. We're supposed to stay inside of it. Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e400	The working party likes to present itself as the ‘part for boys on the gill’. But the criticism now also increases from this team, as their jobs depend on good framework conditions and not least equity. The consequences of the fact that Norwegian companies are not competitive, can be seen, among other things. when large contracts are lost to the rest of the world. The government has a responsibility for this as it refuses to look at, for example: the possibility of changes in the petroleum law, the elimination of the property tax on working capital and the inheritance tax and the raising of depreciation rates. Does the Council of State see that the Government is now almost alone in believing that it is pursuing a good enough policy for the shipbuilding and supply industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e407	Thus, with all possible respect for our differing views on tax policy, it is not depreciation rules, property taxation or inheritance tax that are now affecting the yard industry. It is a financial crisis that has led to the conclusion that, instead of 6 000 ships scheduled to be contracted in 2009, it was about 300. It is not Norwegian inheritance tax that has led to this. On the contrary, it is a market liberalist system, where a crisis in a small market in the United States spread to a global financial crisis, which has taken a heavy toll, first in financial markets, then in the real economy, in particular by the fall in international trade. Now the government is working around the world to get us out of the financial crisis, and is also spending a lot of money in Norway to get to it. Once again, it shows that having a country with economic muscles like Norway, having a mixed economy, being able to use these instruments, has been crucial. And we're going to keep doing that. It is this that, at the end of the year, will also form the foundation of good offices in Norway, namely the repatriation of markets and the arrival of projects and contracts. Then we're going to be competitive and technologically leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e414	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e417	My main question is to the Minister of State. A few years ago, Norway remained one of the few countries in Western Europe without a national quality assessment system. Now we have. We've gained knowledge, and knowledge makes a difference. Municipalities that systematically monitor and follow up the learning outcomes of students also succeed in raising the results and improving the learning outcomes of students. The director of the Education Directorate, Petter Skarheim, called out a warning message yesterday. He warns against what he describes as the emergence of an A- and B- team in Norwegian school, and calls for rebellion against bad schools. The A team are schools managed by active and ambitious school owners who measure results, set concrete targets for improvement, follow up on each school and make demands on the principals. The B team are those municipalities which do not have a follow-up system and which allow bad practice to continue without intervention from the school owner. A recent report from the Education Directorate shows that small municipalities are slowing down on national samples, and the results of the students are getting worse as the municipalities are smaller. Furthermore, the Education Directorate states that, unlike many small municipalities, large municipalities have systems to follow up the results of national tests and student surveys. Education director Skarheim also calls for greater parental involvement. I quote: ‘Bad results on national samples should lead to a population uprising in line with the detection of poor water quality in the municipality.’ But those who want information about the students' professional benefits at the local school usually meet closed doors. Why is the Government paralyzed and unable to prevent the emergence of a public discordant school in Norway, and does the Minister of Municipalities consider that larger municipalities are important in order to ensure quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e435	In the evening post we could read a headline on 5 January: ‘Small municipalities must be merged’. Further: ‘The largest municipalities have the best schools.’ It's the same thing that was followed up in the newspaper through the Education Directorate and the essay there. I think it is good that the Education Directorate has commissioned the Centres for Economic Research to find out what characterises schools and municipalities with the best results from national trials. This is one contribution to improving the quality of Norwegian schools. Then the report is based on, which is also the survey based on, that the student performance is on average better in municipalities with over 50,000 inhabitants than in municipalities with less than 50,000 inhabitants. The Oslo ball comes out best, but it's an average. Within the mean, there's a lot of variation. Several small municipalities are between them with the best student performance in the country. For me, who comes from Sogn and Fjordane, it's interesting to read that just a group of small municipalities, which characterise Sogn and Fjordane, come out very well, and more municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane come out better than Oslo. There is one common denominator for large and small municipalities that are coming out well, i.e. one that has worked with quality raising for a long time. For a long time, one has collaborated with higher education institutions, with the environment of competence, and has seen learning in higher education. It has also been achieved on many small spheres as in e.g. Ørskog, Grong, Agdenes, Røirvik, Leikanger and Balestrand, municipalities with less than 2,500 inhabitants. So they're really learning. One has taken part in cooperation with the world in earnest, one has taken pleasure in the school in earnest. Ein has had skilled education directors in the county who have contributed towards the municipalities in this quality work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e454	I am not reassured by the response of the Minister of State. The school now merges into a wide range of services where small municipalities fail in terms of quality. The big picture is that larger municipalities have more competence and are better able to follow up the school. In fact, the difference school is here. This is what the Education Directorate warns against, and it is a threat to the rights of Norwegian children to an equivalent school offer. The commitment of the director of the Education Directorate to the school is suffocated today by the secrecy of the outcome of the national tests. When the Government does what it can to make access to the results more difficult, it is also difficult to get the big debate. Although in Sogn and Fjordane there is some work to do to raise the quality of the school, it is the exception and not the rule for small municipalities. Does the Council of State have a strategy to ensure that all pupils have a good school, regardless of which municipality their parents have chosen to live in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e463	First of all, not most of the municipalities I came up with are in Sogn and Fjordane. There are also many small municipalities in other counties that have done well. Secondly, of course, professional responsibility for quality lies with the Minister of Knowledge, so that what I can talk about here today is more general. It is the Minister of Knowledge who is working on content, and who is supposed to come back to the Storting with good and sensible measures to raise the level of knowledge in the school throughout the country, because that is what this is all about. It's about all the elephants having a good learning environment in their community. Nor can anyone eliminate distances in this country by merging municipalities. To take Sunund in Sogn and Fjordane as an example: I don't think Hardbakke in Sunund will recruit better qualified teachers if it's edged out in a large municipality than a municipality center in Sunund. It must also be taken into consideration. There are large distances in this country, and many elephants have to have an offer in their vicinity, unless the quality of life is to be weakened for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e470	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e473	Schools are not the only area where state, government and population are highly dependent on municipalities, and where patients, students, users and citizens expect quality of services provided. In these days, the debate on the cooperation reform is going to take place, where the state will make a lot of demands on the municipalities. Yesterday the Children's Ombudsman was out in the Newspaper and believed that child protection worked best in the large municipalities. The organisations of the disabled were consulted in the Stortingen last week and thought that small municipalities lack competence and professionals to provide people with disabilities with a good enough range of services. At the same time, the government does not lift a single finger to give municipalities incentives to join forces. Today, the income system favours the smallest municipalities, making voluntary aggregation little relevant. What action will the Minister of State take to create a municipal structure that is in line with the demands and expectations of the State on the quality and competence of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e480	The answer is municipal convergence, but sometimes a question has to be asked: What was the question? We see that municipalities solve their challenges in different ways. We see that many municipalities in need of expertise do well to cooperate across the municipal borders and do so with good results. Inherred co-municipalities, where Namsos, Overhalla, Fosnes and Namdalseid work together, have eleven years' work within child protection – 20,000 people in their impact field. They have no recruitment problems, they have a high quality and they have office days in all municipalities. You do the same in Hemnes and Snillfjord, a co-worker, you've got better skills, you've got better recruitment, and you do it in many other places in the country. Many refer to Finland when it comes to good quality both in school and other services. That's where the municipalities are responsible. There are municipalities of different sizes – small and large – but they cooperate. They'll find good local solutions. I think it's also a good way to go in Norway, when you need to raise your skills and increase your recruitment, which can be a challenge in smaller municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e490	Torkil Åmland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e493	I want to go back to the school offer in the municipalities. If we look at the results of the national tests, we also see a slightly different pattern than the difference between large and small municipalities, which we've been dealing with here. It concerns the difference between private and public schools. For example, in English, reading and billing, private schools are well placed above public schools. This applies to the last three years. So the statistics show that private schools contribute to raising the quality in general in the Norwegian school system. Now it is the municipality that has the overall responsibility for the school provision in the municipality, and the private schools are also part of this offer. My question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State agree that private schools contribute to raising the quality of teaching provision in municipalities? And will the Council of State see it as positive if private schools are also established in municipalities that are struggling with poor results?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e502	Once again, I must remind you that it is the Minister of Knowledge who has the professional responsibility in this area, so that I will be a little careful about going too far into her area. But I want to say in general: when it comes to the reports that have come – whether it concerns child protection, school or other – and the results that one refers to in relation to public and private schools, I think it is important that we now go into those reports and analyze them a little bit more thoroughly than what one has done, to see what they actually say, and what questions they raise. As Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I am busy dealing with these issues, because I have a goal, namely that everyone, regardless of the municipality and housing in this country, should have the best possible services. When it comes to public and private schools, you also have to look at the student base. So, do all types of elephants also have in the private schools? Then I'm thinking about the elephants who might have a slightly bigger problem with the school day than the average. You also need to look at the background material before you can give an exact answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e509	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e512	The council and I at least agree when it is claimed that it is not necessarily the size of the municipality that determines the quality of the school. For my own sake, I also want to add that I don't think it's necessarily the size of the school that determines the quality. But what is an indisputable fact is that the framework that the school owners and to a substantial extent municipalities and county municipalities have to work for can be absolutely crucial for the quality of school. Then we're in an area that's the responsibility of the Council of State, that's what's connected with local economy. In recent years, we have witnessed a mass reduction of, among other things, cross-border schools, which local politicians have had to do because of a tight economic environment. My question to the Council of State is, what will she do to stop this trend? And what can she do within her area of responsibility to increase the quality of school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e519	According to the report that it has been shown here today, it is probably right that the municipality size does not provide any reason to systematically talk about quality differences. According to the report, there may be some differences when it comes to the size of the shells, but one has to go in and look a little bit closer to what basis is used in that material. It's important to have a good economy. But of the municipalities that I call highest quality, among other things. Balestrand municipality - a small municipality with a tight economy, to use a neutral word. I believe that even within the different financial frameworks that the municipalities have – because they differ from municipality to municipality – different priorities are set. When it comes to quality in school, I want to go back to what I said in a previous answer. Working with the university, thinking about competence, being busy with the contents and the well-being of the school together with competent teachers, are some keys that go back to where one is being closed down in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e526	We move on to the next main question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, then the main question from the representative Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e529	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The e-mail leaks at East Anglia University in England launched a significant debate on climate science, the Climate Panel report and not least on working methods within the Climate Panel. The e-mails revealed camaraderie among a group of researchers who are responsible for the main issues in the report, and show, among other things, that the that they deliberately support each other's work, deliberately trying to keep away from critical voices, trying to influence the attitudes of scientific magazines towards what they publish and withhold numbers from others who will test their research. They have now had a taste of violation of the Public Health Act, and not least of good research practice. In the climate debate, a reference is always made to the fact that there are 2,500 researchers behind it, and that they only stick to published peer-reviewed research. After this discovery in England, there have been a number of examples showing that this is not the case. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the ice would have melted in Himalayas by 2035. This was the 90 pst. ensure, according to its own terminology. Now it turns out that the estimate comes from an interview in the 1999 New Scientist magazine, where an Indian professor assumed this, without having published it. But the WWF played it on, and the IPCC took it. So now it's not true, even though they were 90 pst. secure in 2007. The IPCC links global warming to more and worse natural disasters, but the report they refer to has no coverage for this. When the Climate Panel report was published in 2007, this report was not peer reviewed. When it was peer reviewed and published in 2008, the author concluded that there was no link. 40 pst. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the rainforests of the Amazon would be at risk of rainfall as a result of climate change. Scientists rejected this. The report was made by WWF, and was not peer reviewed [[President clubs]] What does the Council of State think we should do in relation to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the credibility of their reporting? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e548	There is no doubt that recent mistakes have been made at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The opposite would almost be more surprising – if there were no faults in a thousands of pages material. The two most important criticisms, both raised by Solvik-Olsen's representative, are this e-mail exchange between researchers in England and the year-on-year error in the meltdown in Himalaya. Let me get to the last one. So it's not like the countries most concerned, that is. India, Nepal and China, have protested against this. On the contrary, they have said very clearly that they want to build on the United Nations Climate Panel. It is not that there are errors in the fact that there is a melting process. The error is that you have stated the wrong year. It is very useful that the climate skeptics detect this type of defect in the material. Climate science is a new science. One researcher says that the biggest new thing that has happened in the world’s science between 2000 and 2010 is the dramatic uptake of climate science. That within this will be good and bad research, is just what we have to expect. We have to build on it, and then climate skeptics and others have to correct everything that turns out to be wrong. Seventh and last, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a huge triumph for international science, for the world's politicians have never established a consensus between a wide range of scientists in the way it has done here. The President of the United States, the President of China, the Prime Minister of India and the leaders of the European Union – the whole world – are based on this. This is a material that needs to be improved and that needs to be criticised. Science in the years to come will certainly come to both new, surprising and more precise conclusions at most points.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e559	I'm a little surprised at the attitude. We're not going back any further than last year, when the Council of State thought that climate skeptics could be compared to those who denied Hitler's start of World War II, according to an article in the Official Journal of Bergen. In 2007, Kristin Halvorsen said at SV's national meeting that climate skeptics must be corrupt. They must have been purchased and paid by the oil industry or others. So we see that the climate panel does not rely on peer-reviewed research to the extent that one tries to give the impression. This has led, for example, to: India is now not as positive as Solheim is trying to give the impression of. They have set up their own Climate Change Council to test what the United Nations comes with. Greenpeace in England has now gone out and asked the leader of the Intergovernmental Panel to leave, and we know the debate is going on. I've listed ten other points, which also show that this isn't just two things. The question to the Council of State is: Will Norway step in order for the UN to stick next time only to peer-reviewed research? Will he set up an independent research group to review the allegations against the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change? And at least, will he make sure that the next time the UN publishes, they publish everything at the same time, and they don't come up with environmental policy first and science afterwards? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e570	The most fundamental question in the range of all is: what should be the basis for political action? That's what we have to decide. Of course, we encourage the best possible scientific research, the best possible summary from the UN Panel on Climate Change and to listen to all critics – we have always done that. But then the question is: When are politicians going to start acting — and politicians have to start acting on the basis of what is a broad scientific consensus and that is reflected in the climate panel and in a lot of other international research. That's also what's being taken into account by all the leaders of the world -- not obviously by the Progress Party, but everyone else assumes that this is the broad consensus that you start with. It's a parallel to other scientific areas. We base the theory of evolution, even though many scientists disagree with it. We're assuming Hitler started World War II. Although there is – I stress: not nynazists – researchers who have a completely different view of this, decent British researchers, we still base all education on it as a scientific recognition. [[The President clubs.]] It has to be the same thing here. There is a sufficiently broad scientific recognition that we can take political action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e576	For the sake of time use, and since the President has already announced another additional question, only one follow-up question is raised – from the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e579	It's a shame there's only one follow-up question in such an important area. It's interesting to hear the Minister for the Environment answer the main question and now show a little bit more humility and openness than what we've been used to hearing since so far, where this council has just met some so-called skeptics with expressions like voodoo science, i.e. witch science. It is that in the context of climate, it is important to know as much as possible. It is important to have an ‘open mind’ — an open view of other causes that emerge, precisely because climate policy is so extensive and is so interventional for most people in the world. The Chinese now say that the next IPCC report should contain ‘sceptical views’ and that one should have ‘open mind’ about the cause of climate change’. Is there an attitude that the Council of State will pursue and be open to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e590	Yes, absolutely. As Trond Giske stressed earlier, we try to be open to all attitudes. But let us be aware that climate skeptics are not a unified group with one stand. Some climate creators say that the earth is not heated at all. Other climate creators say that the earth is warmed up, just as the United Nations Climate Panel says, but that it only happens naturally, not through anthropogenic influence. A third group, such as Represented in Denmark at Lomborg, the United Nations Panel on Climate Change has arrived at, in essence, the right approach, but poverty in the Third World is a major problem, so we have to solve it first. So the climate skeptics attack this material from many different points of view, many different professional and political viewpoints. That criticism is useful, but climate science does not provide any basis for political action, because it cracks in every possible direction. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is the broadest scientific consensus we can come to, but of course it must be challenged daily by people with different professional positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e595	Then we go to today's last main question – Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e598	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. A few days ago, it was found that industry’s costs related to form fields and compliance with legislation have been reduced by only 0.5 pst. in recent years, despite repeated promises of strong simplification. While other countries around us have set ambitious targets for reducing the cost of business related to reporting, the Government is reluctant. On 16 June 2009, the then Minister of Economic Affairs Sylvia Brustad sent out a press release promising that a sample would be set up to look into how simplifications in the Norwegian legislation could be implemented, inter alia. input from the Auditor’s Association, work in the EU and in other countries would form the basis for the work of the sample. 238 days have passed since Brustad's press release, and nothing has happened. There is neither a selection nor a clear mandate in place. Norwegian business today spends 54 billion kroner on reporting based on rules and form loads. When can we expect the Government to set down a specific selection or objective, and when can we expect the Minister of Industry to follow up the promises of the former Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e609	It is true, as the representative says, that we have not come far enough in the simplification work to facilitate the administrative resource use of businesses. This, I think, is something that changing governments, changing number of growths and changing state councils get to take a partial responsibility for. I will not put any responsibility on any particular of my predecessors – that would also be difficult since it has almost been a new one per. years. The few have been sitting for a long time, and we get to share that responsibility across both parties and people. I still think we should say that there are important things that have been done, such as. the development of the Altin portal, where communications from enterprises to public authorities are significantly simplified. An action plan has been drawn up with a wide range of simplification measures implemented or implemented, and the Innovation and Production Action Plan, which came in August 2008, had 120 different measures now in place to reduce the administrative costs of industry. However, I agree with the representative that we need to set more specific objectives. We see how countries around Europe are setting measurable ambitions for how much costs are going to go down in businesses. I think we need to develop Norwegian policies in this area in the same direction, in order to achieve concrete objectives in this area, concrete actions and concrete implementation. These are very many departments and a lot of legislation, and there are always good reasons for different regulations, both accounting laws, stock laws, reporting requirements, etc., but the sum is too large for companies. We have to balance the value added against the burden on companies, especially the small businesses for which this is very demanding. It's a work that I'm going to take seriously, and where we're going to have great ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e618	I thank the Council of State for being solution-oriented. Earlier today, the Left presented a proposal for a representative that Norway should set up its own regulatory board on the basis of a model from the corresponding Council in Sweden. It is obvious that we need an independent body that can control the impact of new legislation and changes in existing ones before it is effective against business. In Sweden, such a Board of Regulators is the Swedish Government’s main step towards achieving the objective of cutting the administrative costs of companies in terms of regulation and form load by 25 pst. My question to the Council of State is whether he thinks this proposal from the Left is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e627	At least I think it's a very good idea to listen to business itself and make sure that in different contexts they can make sense of how they experience the amount of demands, expectations, rules and regulations that tell them what to report, how to keep their accounts, how to keep records, etc. It's the companies that know best about this. If the best step to take in a simplification work is to create new advice, you can always question it. I also believe that simplification work should be simple and not contribute to new red tape, but contribute to good communication areas where businesses can say clearly from the point of view of the authorities what rules work, or not work, and how the burden is. We should definitely have that. Of course, we should also listen to proposals from the Left, or from Sweden, and learn from what others around Europe have done in the simplification work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e632	There is a question of follow-up – from the representative of Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e635	I can initially assure the Council of State that our idea has not been taken out of the Party cabinets of the Left, but from the recordings we get in contact with small business owners. What I've been a little worried about in the first days of the Council of State, and which he's going to have the opportunity to elaborate, is that there's been a big focus on the big boys, there's been a big focus on the big foreign, and there's been a big focus on becoming friends with those who are the big business owners. But then most of the business in this country is the small ones. It's the little plumber in the Old Town who's going to offer me, or it's the small business owner in the Research Park who's going to develop an idea. I'm afraid that the state council's focus is just to hold on to the big ones and not develop the small ones. That's why it's actually pretty important to get these kinds of changes of rules, because they mean something to the big ones. They're always able to fill out their forms. It's the little ones who don't have time to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e644	I think we have to have a business policy that takes care of both our big, international, powerful groups, whether it's Aker or it's Statoil or whether it's Orkla or who employs thousands and tens of thousands of people, and the small ones – he or she who started a business, put his savings in, quit a safe job and try for themselves and who experience that it's demanding to manage to implement his or her business at the same time as following legislation and regulations. I fully agree that it is certainly the case that it is for the smallest companies that that burden gets greater, because you don't have the big systems to take care of it. Therefore, there are also rules that are different for small and large enterprises. But there's certainly a lot to do. So I think you shouldn't have a either-or-position for this, but a both-and-a-position – a policy for both the big and the small. We're going to listen to the small businesses, as much as to the big ones, even if it doesn't give you so much newspaper headlines. The little ones also have good input. That's also why we listen to the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e652	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e658	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President shall refer to the list distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative Nikolai Astrup to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 1. Question 17, tabled by the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e673	We then go to the first question, from the representative Bente Thorsen to the minister of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e679	‘In various media, we have been made aware that the new rules of absence do not work as intended. Both teachers and students have expressed their dissatisfaction with liberal rules of absence, including in the Haugesunds Avis on 27 January 2010. On February 2nd, the State Council also expressed its concern. What action will the Council of State take in the near future to tighten up legislation so as to ensure a greater degree of justified absence and to a greater extent in relation to unwarranted absences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e691	There has recently been a lot of focus on the conduct of absences on the diploma, and it is both fair and reasonable because we know that absence and non-response are closely related. It is therefore very important that you work systematically to keep your absence low, both in primary and secondary school. It has also been claimed that there has been little penalty for students not meeting the hours. This case was also raised in the Questionnaire on 13 January this year. I would first like to stress that the general rule is that all absences are to be shown on the diploma. This applies both in secondary and primary education. In primary school, absence at the diplomas is a new arrangement from the autumn of 2009 – a clear tightening. However, there is a long tradition that some types of absence, limited up to a certain number of days, should not be included in the diploma. Examples of this are work as trust selected and auxiliary work, but documented health grounds are also included. This is not new. What is new is that there were some changes to the legislation last year, and the intentions of the changes that were made, and which I explained in the Questionnaire on 13 January, were not to make it easier for the students to get zero days of absence from the diploma, but to get a more similar practice in the schools. The rules were that the principal at each school recognized the absence to be carried on the diploma and not, and that of course there was a great disparity between the principal’s assessment and the schools. I am now going through the legislation with the Education Directorate and will come back with changes to the rules for absences on diplomas, both for primary and secondary education, from the autumn of 2010. The absence of a diploma, both for primary and secondary education, is regulated by the Training Act. Intensification of the legislation will be sent at public hearings. The rules cannot be applied retrospectively and will therefore apply from coming school years. It is premature to conclude on which legislative intensifications will be implemented. The current actions assessed include, inter alia: reducing the number of days of absence not to be included in the diploma. According to today's legislation, this is a total of 14 school days per year. years. Another relevant measure being assessed is to reinforce the requirements for documentation by requiring a medical declaration to be more stringent if the absence is not to be included in the diploma. I would like to stress that we are now working on this matter and that we are going through various options thoroughly. As I was in the middle of it, this is a question you have to look very seriously at. It has never been the intention to give a signal to schools about a more liberal practice of absenteeism. On the contrary, cutting down on absenteeism is very important and a very important part of the work that schools actively do to prevent non-response.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e712	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a correct and tidy answer. I also noticed that the Minister would like a new case to be heard, and that different bodies would have their say. I assume that the Vice-Chancellors, who today are very in doubt about how they should conduct absences, will also be an important part of that hearing body, and that it will be leveled up. The way in which the rules of absence work now also contrasts very much with what is expected of our children and young people when they get out of work. Does the Minister see the importance of accountability for pupils as also an action in view of their future in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e721	I will quickly make suggestions on how we can do this in concrete terms, so that the consultation round can be conducted, and so that the changes take place from the beginning of the next school year. I think it is very important that we immediately stop the ‘misunderstanding’ that some students now live in, that absence is not so dangerous. It is harmful for the future of young people not to participate in school education. They get bad grades from it, and it increases the risk of non-response. Those who do not complete secondary education have significantly greater difficulties in the labour market. They are more likely to receive social assistance, and they are at risk of being dissatisfactioned at an early age. So it's a very bad investment for the individual not to participate. It is also the case that the first company checks when considering accepting an apprentice is how high he/she has absences. One who has taken a professional course of study, and has a high degree of absence, has no chance of getting an apprenticeship. It is also an obstacle to completing their education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e728	I thank you again for the answer, which I also thought was thorough. I understand that the minister has really understood the problem here, that you are actually doing the youth a bear service by being too kind here. After the debate on absence came on the agenda, several students have actually appeared in the media and stated that they want clearer rules. Rapid feedback and information are important in most cases, including in the provision of information on absenteeism. Danish school has used SMS notifications as a tool, both for students and parents, to inform about absences. This has proved to be effective, and then the question is: Does the Council of State think that this is an instrument that can be used in school, so that parents get quick information and feedback from the teachers about the student being in school or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e737	I think that might be a good idea for a lot of schools, but I'll leave it to the schools. In fact, schools are now working very systematically and extensively to ensure that students meet for education. It should have been unnecessary, but there are projects like this. involve the active participation of the school and ensure that the youth attends the school. It's a cross-section of mind that the school needs to have that kind of task, but we also know that close cooperation between school and parents is effective and that it works. It is clear that SMS contacts between a little strict teacher and an equally strict mother can get quite a number of 16- and 17-year-olds out of the dunes. Then it's a challenge for young people who are 18 years old and are authoritative. My hope is that the vast majority of young people, when they think about it a little bit, realize that every day is an investment in their own future, and that high absences and dropping out of training are a little dangerous. I also know that many schools work very hard both to motivate and to make sure to make good offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e746	We then go to question 15, from the representative Nikolai Astrup to the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e752	‘The ‘Lofoten v. Sellafield’ organisation has received a long-term meeting of the EU Commission on Sellafield on 3 March in Brussels, but has been informed that neither the Minister for the Environment nor any other representative of the Ministry could participate. This is perceived as a failure of the Government to give priority to Sellafield and gives ‘Lofoten v. Sellafield’ poor ballast in Brussels. Can the Council of State ensure that the Government prioritizes the cessation of radioactive waste storage, and how will the Council of State monitor this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e759	Let me first thank both the presidency and the petitioner for the goodwill of moving this question forward. I was supposed to go to Washington in an hour, but it seems that the snowstorm that's done that bin Laden never managed, that's totally paralyzing Washington. So in principle this question could be taken later today, but I assume we're just continuing now. The answer to the question can be summarised in one word: Yes. We'll do what we can in terms of Sellafield. The meeting organised by Bellona and Lofoten v. Sellafield in Brussels on 3 March concerns the safety of Sellafield and other European nuclear installations. This is something we take very seriously, because an accident at Sellafield will be an accident that could affect Norwegian territory, and be very serious for Norway. I see the event as positive and useful. It is an important contribution to focusing on the safety of risky nuclear installations in Europe. I attended a similar meeting in Oslo a year ago, and let me stress that I just did because I thought this was a very important and positive initiative. I don't think it's been common for environmental protection ministers to attend meetings in the past, but I attended because I thought it was important. I was impressed by the arena this was for dialogue between Norwegian and British actors. Both the British authorities and the new American owners of Sellafield stood up. I think that's very positive. It was a very positive dialogue about what can be done for security, so it was a good and useful arrangement with positive will also from the British and American sides. As regards the forthcoming meeting in Brussels, it has always been clear that the Ministry of the Environment will be represented there and present the Government’s view on the matter. The ‘Lofoten v. Sellafield’ has been notified and it has been planned to participate at all times. That I should have withdrawn from this conference is not correct. As I have said, it has always been announced that we will participate at the level of office. What we're going to do now is a combination: we want to participate with our most competent people from the office. The State Radiation Protection will take part, and my political advisor, Audun Garberg, will come. I'm traveling to Malawi and Mozambique at that very moment to discuss another important environmental issue, namely climate adaptation. To further underline the importance of the meeting, the ‘Lofoten v. Sellafield’ travels to the Brussels event with financial support from the Ministry of the Environment. At the meeting in Brussels, the State Radiation Protection Agency will present the results of the estimates they have made of possible consequences for Norway of a major discharge from Sellafield, which was submitted last year. As Astrup is probably aware, the report shows that major emissions from the stocks of liquid, high-activity waste in Sellafield can lead to very significant radioactive depositions also across Norway and have potentially much greater consequences than Chernobyl had. If it happens on the wrong days, with crazy winds and significant emissions, it is, in particular, significantly more serious for the West than Chernobyl in the worst case. There's something we have to try to stop and something we also have to prepare for. Looking at this serious threat to Norway in the context of the range of major and minor accidents in recent years, and the criticism from the UK authorities of the safety culture of the plant, this gives cause for concern. I therefore consider it important that the British now take effective measures to reduce the risk as quickly as possible. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] The representative of Astrup is probably aware that the government has constantly put considerable pressure on the British government to reduce the risk of a major accident in Sellafield. This has been addressed by both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and myself on various occasions. There is also a good professional dialogue between the straw supplier and UK safety and pollution authorities. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e776	The President will remind you that the normal time to answer questions is 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e779	Then I'll take the rest on a possible follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e784	I am absolutely sure that the Council of States is in power!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e787	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that he is concerned about the problem. We have the same material on this, the report of the State Radiation Protection Agency last year. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that any accident can have major consequences, especially in the West. They're talking about ten to fifty times as much downfall as what you had after Chernobyl, in the most affected areas of Norway. So this is serious. How does the Council of State work specifically against the British authorities? He mentioned that there had been meetings. How close is that dialogue? But also: How do you work concretely against the European Commission, as an important ally on this issue, and up against the Irish authorities, as an interested party, who could be a good ally for Norway? Then I notice that the Council of State does not give priority to the meeting of the European Commission, nor to the Secretary of State, but sends a political adviser.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e796	Just to clarify any misunderstanding about the latest: this is not a meeting with the EU Commissioner in this area. It is – what to say – a meeting of a more private nature. But it's still an important meeting. That is why we have given financial support. That is why my political adviser will take part, and therefore both the Straw livery and the Civil Service will take part. On the second question, we have a political dialogue with the British authorities where we try to put as much pressure on this matter as possible. That's what I was going to read in the first answer. I also wrote a letter to Ed Miliband, my British colleague, about the matter last year. We have a professional dialogue through Straw Delivery and at the job level. We also have a dialogue with the US owners to look at the security measures. As Astrup says, Ireland has been a great ally here. Norway and Ireland have traditionally had very similar views, as there are two neighbouring countries that can both be affected. Of course, when the new Commissioners come into place in Brussels, we will have a dialogue with them to see how we can possibly cooperate with the European Union in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e803	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was a large leakage from parts of the plant in 2005 which closed part of it until 2007. Then it was reopened, as I see it as Norwegian protests. The intention is that that part of the installation should be permanently closed from 2010. Has the government received guarantees from the United Kingdom that this will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e810	I cannot say that we have received any guarantees in this area. There is no concealment that there are different views from the Norwegian and British sides in this area. We'll keep pushing. We want to close as quickly as possible. And we want above all not to take any new steps that will extend the life span, for example. by bringing in nuclear waste from other parts of the world for destruction there. So we'll do what we can to get it closed. Of course, if there were to be a change of government in the United Kingdom at the May elections, which is at least not impossible – to say it carefully – we will immediately contact the new British authorities to rule out their views on it and also put pressure on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e827	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e840	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e846	This is a question to the Minister for Transport: «Strengthened long-lasting winter cold has given rise to special transport and air quality challenges in the major cities. The mountains have been particularly hit. Topography, high transit traffic and few, but large traffic hubs with blasted transport capacity make the challenges particularly high in both the short and long term. Will the State Council consider enhanced State involvement in cooperation with Hordaland County Municipality and Bergen Municipality to strengthen the bus-based collective service in the short and long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e855	The municipalities and the municipality of Oslo are responsible for the local public transport in the county. The government has no plans to change this responsibility, but we see it as our task to ensure that local authorities have the means they need to improve transport and local air quality in the cities themselves. In the case of local public transport other than rail, the role of the State is initially limited to the annual concessions of the county municipalities to the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. These permissions have increased greatly under this government. Thus, local government also has its potential to ensure a good collective provision was better. From 2004 onwards, public transport grants have been granted by the State in the largest cities of Norway. The supplements have been provided through the accrual arrangements for better public transport and less use of cars. In line with the climate agreement, the funds for the bridging arrangement were doubled from 2008 to 2009 to 323.4 million. kr. In 2010, it is available at approx. 333 million. kr to the order. When it comes to instruments to improve local air quality, I think it's very important to give the municipalities that want to do it, tools that allow for better air quality in cities. This means that road traffic has to go down. I have therefore given a high priority to clarify several proposals, which include both issues of low emission zones and cooling pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e866	The question arises of a special situation related to a special winter, and especially of bus-based collective services in Bergen. The deadline for applying for State resources for public transport expires on 15 February, i.e. this month. So far, the government's signals have been very clear that measures the government likes are to be rewarded, and measures the government does not like are to be punished in the form that applications are not met. The purpose of the reward scheme is to stimulate better accessibility, environment and health in major cities by reducing the growth in the need for motorised transport and increasing the number of public travel at the expense of private car travel. But increasing the number of collective trips can be done with positive measures, rewarding measures that clearly reward the user, more frequent departures, direct transport and an extra low price. Will the government contribute to such a scheme, in view of the special situation that not only Bergen, but also other major cities have this winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e873	We take the situation in Bergen very seriously. We, several state councils, have also had good contact with the City Council in Bergen about that. Then to the bulwark arrangement. That's where Bergen's been given funds before. Through the climate agreement and also through the 2010 budgetary procedure, the Stortingen have looked at the need to strengthen collective provision on the one hand, but on the other hand they pay the municipalities, the areas, which are applying restrictive measures against car traffic, i.e. a combination of these two measures. It has been said here that municipalities, as seen in the action of restrictive measures, should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e880	I thank you again for the answer. Then we are, predictably, back to the whip, with little focus on the carrot. Internationally, buses are recognised as efficient public transport. So-called 'bus rapid transit', fast bus, is in use in many large cities around the world. An arrangement with frequent, direct bus departures in the rush time between the city centre and the Bergen centre has been tested during the period of poor air, and is now being continued. Rushtime busses are better than rushtime charges. So to the city and back, $10 each way, it's going to cost $25 million. kr on an annual basis. Here it is about a spice layer between the municipality of Bergen, which has problems in its municipality and in its centre area, and the county municipality, but it is also necessary to have the state in such a spice layer. Will the Council of State contribute to the financing of rush-time busses in Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e887	As the representative Sortevik himself said, the deadline for applying for the emoluments is 15 February. Today is the 10th of February. That means there's a dialogue right now between the county council, the municipality of Bergen and the department about this. Then I have to stress one more time: it's the municipalities that are the authority of pollution and that make the local decisions. At the same time, it is important for the Government to contribute to the ability of the municipalities that want to do so to provide better air quality in cities. I am now following with interest the discussions that are taking place in Bergen and in the Hordaland County Municipality on that very point, i.e. both strengthening collective supply and discussing restrictive measures that are in line with the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e897	‘A new report commissioned by NHO Oslo and Akershus shows that the important route between Oslo and Ski can be completed in 2015. Can the Council of States promise to be a driver for this to happen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e904	I'm busy realizing new double track Oslo-Ski as soon as possible. The new double track is one of the largest railway projects in recent times, and many questions have to be addressed before the project is ready to be built. The project will have a major impact on train traffic both locally, regionally and abroad. The new double track will have great positive effects, but during the construction period such a large facility could also potentially have negative consequences for humans, nature and the environment. The Ministry of Transport is concerned that the Railway Agency should ensure a careful construction period with control of costs, progress and consequences for the environment. The new double track Oslo–Ski project is planned to be completed in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 with start-up in 2013–2014 and completion in 2018–2019. The project will be funded by a separate item separated from the other railway projects on the State budget, cap. 1350, item 30, Investments in the line. A five-six-year construction period has been foreseen, which is technically rational for a project of this size. In order to ensure a defensive and democratic planning process, additional three to four years of planning are needed before the works can start. E.g.: it is very important to carry out thorough basic investigations, so that unnecessary surprises are not encountered in the course of the process. The new train section has a high tunnel share, and it is important that you choose the right driving method, profile and tracing. Good planning is very central to closing. There are enough examples of tunnel projects that have been launched too early. In addition, the introduction to Oslo S will be challenging both in terms of planning and implementation, including: in relation to cultural and ancient memory. New Double Track Oslo-Ski is a very high priority project. Based on the information available to the Ministry of Transport today, I cannot see that it is justified or that there is a basis for overseeing the project in addition to that provided by the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. I have now registered the report provided by the NHO. I'm going to look very carefully at him and have a private meeting on the basis for him, because I want the double track Oslo-Ski to have as fast progress as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e921	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and that she will contact the NHO Oslo and Akershus and study the report carefully. In fact, Ski Station, which is part of the double track, has been repeatedly exposed. The 2007 budget, 2008 and 2009 put the project at risk for different reasons each time. In the election campaign, representatives from the Government and government parties thought it was possible to double-track. It should be that what you say in a choice, and what you do when you get back into government, is related. Again, I thank you for the fact that the Council of State will engage in dialogue with NHO Oslo and Akershus. But what is the reason why she cannot be as offensive as her government partners were in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e930	I don't have an overview of all the details in relation to what was said in the election campaign, but I guess representatives of the red-greens who stuck to the national transport plan, which is a very ambitious national transport plan, where it is planned for the next ten years to spend 322 billion kroner on transportation. So it's the particular planning phase that it's now important in this round to do carefully. This is partly due to difficult basic conditions, and it is a large proportion of tunnels. I know a great responsibility from now on and forward. I know what this double track means. At the same time, I also have to make sure that the most necessary planning is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e939	I thank you again for the answer. I record that the Council of State highlights planning processes and good planning in both of its responses. And it's just these considerations that have been left hand in this matter. It is also that there is a lack of planning money in the municipalities. It has helped to shift this double track or have made the municipalities unable to work as quickly as they want. The left in its alternative state budget has set at 50 million. to strengthen the planning work of the municipalities concerned, both in terms of propulsion and quality. Is this something the Council of State might think of supporting or coming back to in the revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e948	The Railway Agency has now submitted its proposal for the planned work for this section, and I assume that this will be done as thoroughly and as quickly as planned. And then I'm going to be able to say that after the planning period, there's also a construction period, and if there's any evidence that there's any possibility of additional damage in relation to what's in the national transport plan, then I think it should be taken up in connection with the rolling in four years' time. It is therefore the largest project in the national transport plan, and it is also very important, both for many individuals and for the business community in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e958	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The new route of E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand has resulted in a significant amount of traffic, especially heavy traffic to and from industry, now using Rv. 402 from Birkeland to new E18 at Storemyr and not Rv. 41 as before. The significant increase in traffic means that children and young people can no longer walk or cycle along the highway from Eigeland to Storemyr in Lillesand. Will the Council of State now take responsibility for the impact of new infrastructure and ensure that European road transport funds are deployed to re-establish the route?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e967	It is true that there has been a certain increase in traffic on the former rv. 402 between Eigeland and Storemyr. According to a recent traffic census from the State Road Service, the increase is about 500 running gear per day. From the turn of the year, the county has assumed responsibility for this road. Lillesand and Birkenes are part of the Kristiansand region, where the development projects for the next few years will be financed, among others. through the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region. The area and transport selection, the so-called ATP selection, has coordinated local political work, and a number of projects have been undertaken, including: two-way and cycle road projects along fv. 402 between Lillesand and Storemyr. However, the stretch between Eigeland and Storemyr is not a priority. I would like to show that the responsibility for the priorities of the county road network lies with the county council. In this region, good cooperation has been established between municipalities and through the ATP selection and the work on the Transport Package. It is therefore up to the local authorities to give priority to measures along this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e976	I thank you for the answer, which confirms that there is a significant increase. It is also important to understand that the type of vehicle that is responsible for this increase makes the traffic situation a number of worse for those travelling along the road route. It is right that the ATP Committee should work on road safety and pedestrian and cycle routes in this region, pointing out that they have not prioritised this route. No, there has been a long and thorough political process in the region to give priority to roads, but then this was not a problem issue. As of 1 January this year, the counties have assumed responsibility for roads, and the state is then left with the main roads. Does not the Council of State not see that it is entirely unreasonable to transfer responsibility for the consequences of the tribal roads to the county and to point back to the lack of priority in a plan created before this occurred?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e985	First, a closer analysis of traffic. It is said that when traffic has increased, there are several road users from Birkenes running E18 and not Rv. 41 to and from Kristiansand. It's the State Road Service that has said this. But heavy traffic is like 10 pst. and has no increase. To the question of transferring responsibility for road: How far do I believe this transfer to a much larger county road network has led to a greater focus both on road maintenance and otherwise on the road network. It also shows our numbers: the county councils got funds over, so they themselves have prioritised transportation beyond what was expected from both the ordinary and the extraordinary resources that were spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e992	It's possible I'm too quick in my head bill, but when the traffic has increased by 50 and the heavy traffic is still 10 pst, that means it's increased by 50 in the case of heavy traffic. There is, of course, a significant increase for those who are going along this road. So heavy traffic has increased, and it has made the situation worse. I record that the Council of State still believes that this is a local issue. The rapporteur in Lillesand invited him to a meeting with the Council of State in the autumn – that is, the previous Council of State – and it was then rejected with the background of the current issue and that this is not in the plans of the ATP Committee. Is the Council of State now willing to engage in a dialogue with the rapporteur in Lillesand to see if a solution can be found to this route?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e997	I am busy that it should be a good name throughout the country, and that it should apply to what is now called national roads, county roads and municipal roads. But when it comes to the county road network, the way is to get the best possible cooperation in the region between the municipality and the county municipality. So there's an established cooperation here through what's called the ATP selection. I have many questions about contributing to solutions when there are many road sections in this country. I'm going to be very happy on the day I manage to set up all the national roads, and I also think it's important for me to prioritize my time on the road right there – and then participate in order for the county councils to have funds according to the tasks they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1008	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Daily it is approx. five wild game carriages on the roads of Hedmark. This leads to a lot of suffering and often serious damage. What will the Council of State contribute in the short term to reduce the number and extent of damage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1017	About 1 300–1400 moose are killed in traffic every year. Incidents lead to great suffering in the form of injuries and death for animals and humans, as well as material damage. The state road system is, therefore, working systematically to reduce the impact of game. An increasing population of elk and increasing traffic makes this work particularly necessary. A large part of the road network travels through areas with lots of wild animals, and it is not possible to avoid all of these. On the most postponed routes, special measures are being taken in addition to the usual signs. Actions taken include: construction of guideways to make the elk cross the road in selected places, removal of vegetation along the road, etc. to remove the nutrient source of elk winter time and to improve the visibility of drivers. Other measures include feeding and setting up technical solutions to alert road users about game near the road. Viltspruits will also be part of the National Road Safety Action Plan, which will be launched during the spring. In addition to short-term measures, management needs to have knowledge as a basis for the longer-term measures and the impact that everyone wants. A two-year programme to evaluate the impact of measures implemented to avoid the introduction of wild game has been launched by the State Road Service. The evaluation will be completed in the spring of 2010 and will include: provide a basis for recommendations on targeted, urbanised and cost-effective measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1026	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Hedmark is the country with most elk driving. Last year there were 556, and so far this year there are also many. In the question I said that it is approx. five, but a new count actually shows that there are seven game crashes every day in Hedmark, so this is a big problem. But there's no new problem, so it's been for many years, and not just under this government. It almost looks like the number of animals hit is increasing. Of course, there may be a lot of different reasons for that. The game strain may be relatively large right now, but there are also many other reasons for these rides. The council mentioned some things that can be involved and contribute here, but this has been tried for many years, so it has to do something more. I saw in Hamar Arbeiderblad on Tuesday 9 February that there was a researcher who said that one could give NOK 100 000 in fee to the road owners per day. damaged animals. He says that it has happened so little, and that no one takes responsibility. Now someone has to take responsibility, and maybe it can be the weigher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1033	In fact, I think that the board of directors are making a significant effort to reduce the number of game buffs, both through concrete measures that I have already mentioned, and by increasing knowledge. More can be done and will be done, but for the work to be completed, we depend on the individual road user to contribute, among other things. by slowing down and being careful in particular postponed areas. So I'd like to ask the State Road Service to take a closer look at the possibilities to better inform the drivers in the particularly exposed areas, such as Hedmark. I think it's a better way to go than to pay a special fee to the owner. But it's quite clear, as the representative here says: Hedmark has a disturbingly large proportion of these on-road runs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1040	Once again, I thank the Council of State. I also agree that informing the drivers is one of many possibilities. I see, when I'm driving along the road, that there's a big sign that says that maybe you should stop and sleep for 15 minutes, you should remember to wear your seat belt -- and somewhere there's also a triangle that alerts that it's a moose hazard. But maybe that sign should have been bigger, because it's not just the drivers that belong to the district, that run here, that run on the elk, but there's also a lot of aliens from abroad. For example, many Danes drive on the way to Trysil, and it is clear that some of them are not used to elk at all. We have to do something, and I also agree that maybe that with fines to the weigher is not the right way to do it either. But someone has to take responsibility. It's on the roads it's happening, and then the State Road Service has to get stronger on the track. This isn't a new phenomenon, this has been for many years, and then it doesn't help with one investigation after another. There is a need for proper action and immediate action. That's why I asked what the Council of State will do in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1049	I mean that the so-called tenants, the removal of vegetation both to make the elk go another way and to better aim for the drivers, feeding and setting up technical solutions tell them that something is being done. Similarly, one of these two-year programmes has the effect of the measures taken. So I'm going to bring myself back to the state roadway proposal for a bigger sign, maybe even more signs. So I'm going to take this question seriously and ask the State Road Administration to evaluate special measures in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1059	This is a question that I hope will also be taken seriously: ‘In the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the development of the national transport hub is an important strategic measure to make national transport work more efficient. The mountains have the potential to develop such a hub on Flesland. There may be a connection between road, rail, Norway’s second largest airport and new port. Connecting rail to aerodromes requires a common understanding of the objectives, strategy and efforts of the Railway Agency and the NSB, respectively. This coordination is lacking. What will the Council of State do to ensure proper coordination between the departments concerned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1068	Let me say first that I thank you for the reminder. I will answer eight questions today, and I believe the answer will show that I take all the questions seriously. So to the answer. In the past, the NSB has announced the launch of a new passenger train between Bergen centrum and Bergen Airport, Flesland. No such plans have been developed or processed in the Railway Station. The Railway Agency is the State Department for the Planning and Construction of Railway Infrastructure. Work is under way on the concept of value added, KVU, for the Bergen region package. The work is rented by the State Road Administration, but with the participation of, among others, The Railway Agency, the Coastal Works Agency, the Municipality of Hordaland and the Municipality of Bergen. The concept evaluation takes into account the transport system throughout the Bergens region, and will also include the collective system. The outcome of the distribution — and its further treatment — will be an important basis for deciding on the further development of the railway system in the Bergen region. The municipality of Bergen has plans for a hamstrung collective track to Flesland. If this is realised, the Railway Works does not see a railway track for passenger traffic only as applicable. The railway works believe that any future passenger train towards Flesland must be seen in conjunction with the ongoing provision of a new port in Bergen. If it is located in Flesland, and it appears that the rail freight handling, which is currently on the Nygårdstangen, should be located together with the future port terminal, passenger traffic on the route will be natural to consider as an additional effect of a new freight track. Work on the distribution of new port location is carried out under the authority of the County Municipality of Hordaland, but is per year. today not completed. The railway works participate in the process, including: in view of a possible railway link. As of today, there are no concrete plans for rail tracks to Flesland. My predecessors, Liv Signe Navarsette, have repeatedly answered questions about this issue. In 2009, I see that the representative Sortevik has received answers to three questions on this topic. I believe that it is now natural to wait for the result of the current KVU for the Bergen region package and to arrange for the location of a new port before deciding whether such work should be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1083	Thanks for the answer. There is a light on exactly what is the challenge in this matter: to go from passive observation of an opportunity for active political action to plan, implement and realise a very good project. All parties are concerned about developing node development. A study by the Transport Economic Institute shows that only a few countries have developed a national policy on urban freight transport. The problems are usually dealt with locally and regionally. There is often a lack of coherence between national, regional and local targets. The NSB, as the Council of State was well aware, has a strategy to develop train-based passenger transport in the major cities. You can get both parts to Flesland on the same track – you can get passenger transport, and you can get freight. Does the Council of State not see that rail to Flesland is an important national project requiring national political governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1090	The progress of the work on KVU, the draft selection inquiry, and KS1, external quality assurance at the early stage of large state investment projects, has been set up in such a way that it will be possible to present the case in the context of the national transport plan notification from 2014 to 2023. But I think it is important that we also listen to the regional debate on this. Then I can say that we are active listeners in the sense of being late yesterday, in a transport and logistics forum that is established as a national liaison body with the Ministry of Transport, this was also a theme with port on Flesland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1097	It is important not only to be an active listener, but also a clear pointer and a clear direction driver. Let me rely on that in this project by rail to Flesland there is also a local train from Åsane to Flesland inside. So, given questions earlier here in the hall, it can reduce traffic in Bergen by 20 pst. It is an offer that is a good alternative to car, because there are few stops along the line. For many years, the NSB has been working on train plans both for Åsane and for Flesland, but they are striving to get the Railway Agency as interested as the NSB itself is. Clear leads and clear signals are needed. I don't get any signals about how much time I have left, President – but my question is: Will the Council give green light to project work by rail both to the NSB and to the Railway Agency and not least signal that they have to work together on this which should and should be a joint project?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1106	I have taken note of the work that is now being done in the municipality of Bergen with a passenger train to Bergen, which one can call a walking collective train, that is, the city track. There is now in the spring session working on a case on the continuation of the Bergen programme. I thought we should also see it in conjunction with a possible future railway to Flesland. Then I have recorded that in several metropolitan areas there is increased focus on combining path and road with port outside the city core itself. That is why we are now following closely the debate that is taking place in Bergen and Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1116	Now I'm sure both the Minister of Transport and I can agree that the most important thing is to get the train on rails and that it will come. But it doesn't always. My question is therefore: ‘NSB has promised compensation to train passengers in the event of delays. The compensation scheme has an estimated cost of between 10 and 20 million. kr. Delays and settings over 30 to 60 minutes are mostly due to conditions beyond the control of the NSB. Does this mean that costs will be passed on to other railway projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1125	I agree with the heart that at this time there must be one superior goal, and it is that several trains are on the way. I am pleased that the NSB has now established a robust compensation scheme which also includes the train commuters. The new scheme is in line with what was announced after the meeting on 7 January of this year between me and the lease at the NSB and the railway station. A scheme from the EU was mentioned here. I saw no reason to wait for the EU regulation on new passenger rights for passengers by rail to be implemented in Norwegian law. In consultation with the NSB, it was decided that from 1 February 2010, the NSB would introduce a scheme in which travellers will receive 50 pst. price reductions on the ticket price if the train is more than 60 minutes late between Oslo and Bergen, Oslo and Trondheim, Oslo and Kristiansand, Oslo and Stavanger and between Trondheim and Bodø, and more than 30 minutes late for all other passenger trains. In addition, it was decided that the corresponding arrangements should apply to travellers with time tickets, so that the many commuters who travel on a daily basis with the railway would also be compensated for delays in train traffic. I am aware that the NSB may claim compensation for the additional costs that the scheme will incur for the company and that are within the agreement of the State of the Ministry of Transport with the NSB on state purchases. Currently, the NSB has estimated that the scheme will cost 10 million. SEK-20 million. kr on an annual basis based on the train delays up to now. However, the number is highly uncertain, and developments in the operating situation will determine how much such a scheme will cost over time. How to cover additional costs in 2010 can I first decide when the NSB has submitted a fully documented requirement for this year. If it is decided to introduce the scheme on a permanent basis from 2011, I suggest that an estimate of any additional costs will be covered by the leases set for cap. 1351, entry 70 Purchase of passenger transport services by train, in connection with the government’s treatment of the State budget for 2011. In any case, I would not suggest that specific railway projects that are in progress or are scheduled to start up in the current planning period, 2010–2013, will be stopped due to the new compensation scheme that has now been introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1138	It is very nice that the Council of States is ahead of the EU in some areas. I also hear that for 2010 the department will take the bill. But the NSB will probably make demands for some deposits, and then it's the department that gets the bill. But the responsibility for the cause of these delays lies with the Railway Agency. According to the reports of all the trains that do not arrive and that make people not come to work or not reach kindergarten, it is the railway station that is responsible for these delays. I hear that in any case, the cost will be in the millionth size. So my follow-up question to a Minister for Transport who is already two to three billion in line with the objectives of the national transport plan will continue to be whether it will shift further important measures. Will it be taken from operating funds, or will it be from investments in other sectors, when the Council of State will cover that compensation scheme bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1143	It is true that this has been the cause for decades of neglect in the bulwark. It's also old train equipment. One has made an intensive effort to improve the bulwark of the Railway Agency. There are also given permissions for ordering new train equipment. So my answer is that the costs of this reimbursement scheme should not go beyond other railway projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1150	That's right, and I agree with the Council of State that we need good, long-term solutions – and a government council that dares and wants to show leadership. The purpose of such a compensation scheme should be to provide the NSB and the Railway Agency with an incentive to think user-oriented, to be concerned with the user and that the results have financial consequences. I'm not sure we can achieve it by such a blank mandate from the department. So the question to the Council of State will then be whether this is an attempt to buy free from the responsibility of a railway in crisis and without trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1155	It is not. It's not an attempt to buy free. But it is a contribution to commuters who today feel that they are not getting a product for which they have paid. We can't cover all the costs. It's already an arrangement with taxi costs and other actual expenses, that goes its way. But let me stress when it comes to motivation in the NSB and the Railway Agency: I have met both in the NSB and in the Railway Agency – literally out on trains and tracks – many highly motivated professionals who do as well as they can at a demanding time, at a time when the cold has intensified the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1165	My question is: ‘On the basis of a proposal from the Right and the Left, a sample was set up to look at the establishment of independent roadside supervision. The majority of the committee considered that independent roadside supervision could provide important help in the field of road safety, as the sample leader Jorunn Ringstad expressed it in the presentation of the report. One year has passed since the sample submitted its report. What is the momentum of this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1174	In St. prp. No 68 for 2006-2007 the Government announced that it would set up a public selection to look at the organisation of supervisory tasks related to the infrastructure in the road sector. Such a selection was dropped in November 2007. The selection presented its report in February 2009, NOU 2009:3 On the safe path. In the conclusion, the selection was divided. A number in the selection tended to establish a state supervisory body independent of the state's road system. A minority in the selection did not enter to create such a supervision. The fact that it is not possible to argue unequivocally that such supervision will increase road safety and therefore is a reasonable use of society's resources, I believe was one of the most important reasons why my predecessor reduced the selection. The report from the selection, with the split setting, was sent on 24 April 2009 for wide audience, with a time limit for comments and recordings on 14 August 2009. The answers from the hearing are not clear given whether it is advisable to establish a supervision of the road infrastructure. The government will, when we have completed our assessments, present the matter to the Stortinget. On the question of progress, my answer would be that I am forced to give our assessments the necessary time, but I have the aim of giving this matter a quick treatment, without being able to set any date.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1189	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was rather disappointing that she could not be a little more concrete, because the left believes that it is urgent. The left has justified the need for independent roadside supervision to provide clear roles and responsibilities in order to ensure the safety of road users. I want to draw an example. The State’s Committee on Transport has seen a meeting accident between two vehicle combinations on the E39 for some time. The accident commission points out that tracks in the roadway, steep heels, sharp turns, narrow road and low friction help to explain the course of events and the accident. Do the Council of State agree that better supervision of our roads will enhance road safety for road users? Is the Council satisfied with the stand, as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1198	My contact with the State Road Administration has shown that there is a great deal of focus here on the quality of the infrastructure. They know this responsibility. They have recently submitted a comprehensive report that has just seen the search light on road safety. They've been going through all the clocks where there's been death or serious personal injury -- all of them closing out for the last four years -- just to see if there's any special areas, special factors you recognize, that go back in the wake after the accident, and what can be done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1203	I thank you for your answer. I want to go back a little bit to the first answer, where the Council of State says that the proposal for independent roadside supervision is out for consultation. Now there were a lot of organizations that supported the proposals of the Right and the Left. I can name Trygg Traffic, Road Traffic Information Council, NAF, Transport Companies National Association, Authorised Transport Schools Association, Norway's Lastebileier-Federal Association, No to Front Collisions – and I could continue to ram up. So who the council hears now, I don't know. But when all these organizations, which are genuinely concerned with the safety of our roads, think that is a good proposal, is it not enough for the Council of State to cut through and demonstrate the power of action by setting up independent roadside supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1210	The deadline for the hearing was 14 August last year. I don't, like Borghild Tenden, have at this point been able to go through all the hearing statements. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to highlight the points of view that come here. I understand, with the cut that I've been able to look at so far, that there are different views among the hearing aids. Then I must also be allowed to say that in the state road system, a new action plan for road safety is working – just to stress that improving road safety is taking the most seriously both in the state road system and in the organisations that it is natural for them to cooperate with, and in the ministry. Then we're going to figure out whether own supervision is the road to go, or whether we're going to use those funds directly on road safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1220	‘The development of new E39 between Os and the Rådalen in Hordaland is a high priority project in Hordaland, as well as in the national transport plan. The technical solutions and plan clarifications for the project are too far in place. Toll applications have also been processed locally and submitted to the Ministry a long time ago. What is the reason why the work on the landfill project on this very important project seems to have stopped, and what will the Council of State be doing to bring the matter up for major treatment in the spring of 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1227	There are several reasons why the project E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal, i.e. between Os and Bergen, is not ready for landfill treatment in spring 2010. The Road Administration is working on quality assurance of the estimate of costs as a basis for external quality assurance, known as KS2. The project comprises tunnels to a large extent, and there is therefore a large surplus of masses. The state Road Service is working on finding a solution for the mass surplus on Bergenssida, where this is not solved. Since the spring/summer 2008 local policy treatment, there has been a cost increase in the project. It is therefore assessed on an ongoing basis whether the local decisions are sufficient to achieve full funding. It is suggested that any additional decisions may be taken in parallel with the external quality assurance. The road system of the State will adapt the preparation of the draft landfill proposal to the progress of the external quality assurance. The Ministry of Transport will submit toll proposals for E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal as soon as there is sufficient clarification. I am aware that this is a project that has been extended. I mean, the process put here doesn't mean that the project stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1240	I thank you for your answer. In this type of project – and their propositions – there is a so-called administrative interest rate of 6,5 pst. E39 south of Bergen is a big project. We're probably talking about a loan of over $2 billion, and the interest rate means a lot. In today's market, one could bind 15-year-old loans to plus 5 pst. and 10 years on something less than 5 pst. It has been done in many such projects in the past to secure the economy and to provide a better payoff time. Will the Council of State be in favour of this being done in this project as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1247	It's a question that I have to be allowed to come back to. I can't answer yes here and now to change the interest rate in a project that is currently being worked on. But it's right that Halleraker here says that the statements may have changed over time. This is a project that has been scheduled for a longer time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1252	I thank you for your answer. It is true that twice this company has submitted toll applications, where the funding is clarified — the last time adjusted in line with the department’s wishes, seven to eight months ago. Now the whole harvest has gone and the winter has gone a long way, without the project being promoted for Stortinget. Nor is it on the list of matters that the Committee should receive in ours. It doesn't say so many other things either, so we have good capacity. The whole of the West is waiting for this project. For 35 years, you've been working on it. This is probably the most important distance between Stavanger and Bergen, which has an old-fashioned standard, with a lot of exits and a lot of traffic. I would like to address a personal question to the Council of State: Will she now personally commit herself to getting the project out and out of the mess in which it has obviously come?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1261	State councillor Meltveit Kleppa gets to answer as personally as she finds reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1264	My answer is that I have a personal commitment to follow up the progress plan laid down in the National Transport Plan, what is to be clarified in the 2010 budget, what is to be laid down in the 2011 budget and the following years, this four-year period, and also to facilitate the roll-out of the plan. I share Halleraker's description that this is a strong desire for those who are occupied with a better E39. The state's road system says, so far, that it should be much longer when it's in the autumn of 2010. I will do what I can to get ahead of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1271	Then the Minister of Transport's marathon round is over, and we move on to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1277	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Molde and Kristiansund agreed to retain two hospitals with today’s functional distribution in the future. Molde's new hospitals were planned to be built on this basis, which was also endorsed by Prime Minister Stoltenberg and former Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Today there is an unworthy hospital war between the two municipalities, because health center with good help from the department has raised doubts about the distribution of future emergency functions. Will the Council of State confirm the maintenance of promises made by the top government team?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1286	The hospital structure has been central to the political debate for many decades. In St.meld. No 9 for 1974–1975, Hospital extension etc. in a regional health system, it was assumed that the country would be divided into five regions, with local, central and regional hospitals. Local hospitals should meet the need for general services in the field of internal medicine and surgery, often including maternity care. X-ray, laboratory and anaesthetic services should be support functions. The hospital structure and the concept of local hospitals have changed over time. Today’s hospital structure is largely adapted to the patterns of social and housing and professional development of the past, i.e. solutions that will not always be the best available to the population. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government opens up the possibility for some hospitals to do work tasks other than today. Hospitals will provide more specialised services, while maintaining today’s decentralised hospital services. This will ensure proximity to emergency services and food services, although not all hospitals have such services. I have notified the Stortinget that the national health and care plan will be presented in 2010 in the form of a wholesale notification. The interaction reform must be concrete and it is natural to mention the role of local hospitals in this plan. In the mission papers of regional health companies, I have pointed out the need to continue developing and converting the provision of specialist healthcare – this to face changes in morbidity, age and population composition and medical technology. Work on improving the division of work between hospitals shall continue. I am aware that regional health companies have initiated such processes, including functional sharing between hospitals. Health Mid-Norway has based its strategy on a societal perspective in which the role of specialist health services is to be seen in the light of an overall societal model. Four main challenges have been addressed in the strategy: The composition and needs of the population are changed. Clearer requirements for documented quality. Employees in health care become a scarcity factor, which we have to include. Economic growth in specialist health services. It is being slowed down, as the Interaction Reform will focus more on the efforts of the municipalities. The last point therefore needs to be seen in the context of the reform ahead, and increased emphasis on prevention, meaning that increased health frameworks will largely fall to primary health services. As Minister of Health and Care, it is vital to me that we make a decision on the hospital structure in North Moravia and Romesdal, which has a generation perspective. The choices we make today will shape the structure for decades to come. Therefore, in close dialogue with Health Mid-Norway and stakeholders, I will carefully assess the different options before reaching a final conclusion. The process shall not take longer than necessary. It is important for patients, citizens and employees that this issue comes to a final conclusion soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1316	Both the Prime Minister and former Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen have previously promised to build a new Molde Hospital, starting in 2012 if the financial conditions were present. State Secretary Ingebrichtsen recently visited Kristiansund and, through his opinions, created new uncertainties about this promise. Can the Council of State confirm that the promise given, both by Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister of Health and Health Hanssen, is proportionate to the construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1321	With regard to the plans for the Molde Hospital, they've reached the department, and we're going through them carefully. In terms of the total hospital provision in this region, that is, Molde, Kristiansund and the municipalities around that part of the county, this is something we need to see in the context. It is clear that a new hospital is needed, and it is clear that we need to implement improvements and improvements – that people should have a safe hospital offer in this part of the country as well. There should be food supplies, emergency services, all of these functions that are necessary, but we have to see this in one context, the whole of the country as a whole. Then we have to come back once we have gone through these plans, and see how they are finally designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1328	There is now a discussion about the functional distribution of hospitals in Health Mid-Norway. Can the Minister of Health assure people in More and Romesdal that the consideration of Kristiansund as the main base for the oil industry in the Norwegian Sea and their need for access to health care will be included in Health Mid-Norway's assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1333	It is clear that the needs of the population in terms of both structure and challenges in different parts of the country need to be taken into account when looking at what is the best functional distribution between specialist health services and other types of healthcare. We've also said in Soria Moria II that we're not going to lay down a local hospital, but they can have other problems than today. But the most important thing is that the population in this part of the country is absolutely sure that when they need it, they must have access to the best healthcare that is, and what can serve them the best. That doesn't mean that all the services can be anywhere, but we need to have a system that allows us to get the help we need, when necessary. I would also like to point out the ambulance service, which today is quite different from that it was just a few years ago, and set up almost as a small emergency hospital when you are on your way to the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1343	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The provision of relief to children is deficient. It is important that children who are seriously ill in the final phase of life receive a comprehensive offer of relief and care. It is necessary to facilitate the family of the child to be with the child and to receive the necessary support from health professionals. For those who want their children to end their lives at home, outpatient services must be provided to enable this. What will the Council of State do to ensure a better provision of relief and care for children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1352	Fortunately, children rarely die of an incurable disease. But when it happens and a child is in the final phase of life, it's going to get all the help it needs from reliever treatment, care and care. This also applies to pain relief, and children of course have the same right to treatment as adults do. Palliation, or relief, is defined as active treatment, care and care for patients with incurable disease and short life expectancy. The goal of alleviating treatment is best symptom relief and quality of life for the patient and its relatives. Treatment may take place in a health institution or at home. Today, there are palliative offers both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. In the vast majority of health business areas, networks of nurses with special competence in cancer care and relieving treatment are established. The Health Directorate has developed national professional guidelines for palliation in cancer care. The guidelines came in 2007, as part of the follow-up to the National Cancer Strategy 2006-2009. The guidelines have been developed for cancer patients, but general advice also applies to patients with other diagnoses. The Health Directorate has also created a priority guide on pain conditions that came in June 2009. This guide is particularly useful for those who assess or participate in the evaluation of referrals to the specialist health service. The supervisor indicates that patients less than 20 years of age should have a high priority and a short period of time for the investigation and treatment of chronic pain. As of 1 October 2008, there were 32 palliative centres in Norwegian hospitals. The offer consists of outpatient clinics, outpatient teams, beds or a combination of these. In addition, there are four regional centres of excellence for relieving treatment and three regional palliative bed units. In St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 The Interaction Reform is a lessening treatment described as an area in which we need to assess the content of the tasks in more detail. Regional health establishments have overall responsibility for providing the necessary specialist health services to the population within the applicable laws, regulations and financial frameworks provided. I assume that regional health companies provide and further develop their offering to children in need of relieving treatment in line with key leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1365	It's true that there aren't many – fortunately, but according to the SSB, there are 349 children on average who die of serious illness. 46 pst. of them die at home. There are children who suffer from an incurable disease, and who often have a very complex and complex form of disease. Unfortunately, there is a group that has not experienced being a priority group. Perhaps just because they are so few, it is difficult for many health businesses to have a targeted and good offer to them. The YES association for the relief and care of children is established to focus on the need for relieving treatment for children and their families. They find that many of the available treatment and assistance services are dimensioned to adults and do not take on the particular situation that arises around having a sick and dying child. My follow-up question is therefore whether the Council of State wants to do something special within health businesses to build up the competence and provision of relief services for children, precisely because the relatives point out that there is a major shortage here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1374	The guidelines given also apply to treatment for children. So we know, of course, that children have different needs than adults do, but they have to be part of the same methodology and the same offer. What is also done in the mission document of the healthcare companies for the current year is that we have included two sentences, which read: ‘It is important that there are good offers in terms of palliative care and hospice. These services shall be provided as an integral and natural part of the specialist health service and the overall provision of health and care to the municipality.» In that it is not mentioned children specifically, but it is of course a thing. But of course, this is also something we can clarify more about health businesses, I would like to do that. Once we've brought this up, it's been a very obvious thing that children should be taken care of as part of the overall health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1384	Unfortunately, it is that if you assume that groups are few, is a natural part of an offer that may largely apply to very many others, they are often not viewed in the same way. My reason for addressing this question is, among other things. The YES association for the relief and care of children, where parents who have met the measure we have taken, say that they do not feel that it is appropriate to have children. Among other things, they point out that the supervisors that are made are made for adults, and they have a strong desire to establish their own supervisor for palliative treatment aimed at children and their families. My challenge to the Council of State is then: Will the Council of State in this context launch an offer of a special child counsellor?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1391	It is essential that children in such a situation and at this stage have good treatment. If it is experienced by parents that the offer today is not good enough, I know it has some nuances – it is probably not everyone who experiences it as bad. But at the same time, we cannot fail here, I fully agree with the representative of Erna Solberg. If any of the parents believe that there is not enough offer today, it is of course that we should look at it and create our own supervisor, and at least have dialogue with this group to hear what it is that can be improved in relation to the offer that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1399	‘The Health Authority concluded in its report of 20 October 2009 that there were serious deviations in the food department of Kongsberg. Among other things, it is pointed out that the hospital allows births with a known risk, without access to the necessary skills. On 24 January 2010, a child died during childbirth, and the maternity ward was temporarily closed on the basis of this. What was done by the hospital to ensure a proper supply of food, immediately after receiving the Health Authority report?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1406	Let me first say that I look very seriously at the matter at the maternity ward at Kongsberg Hospital, where an unborn child recently died, and where there has been concern about the professional level. The health business has closed the maternity ward, as is known, in the context of its follow-up to the department over time. The Health Inspectorate in Buskerud, following the cooperation procedures between the police and the supervisory authority, has recommended police investigations. When serious situations arise that might have been avoided, we need to consider the events and, where appropriate, change the procedures to prevent this from happening again. It is the responsibility of the Vestre Viken healthcare company, as an independent legal entity, to ensure proper operation. The Management Board of the health business has a separate responsibility to ensure that its activities are also aligned with laws and regulations. It is therefore not the case that health establishments should wait for health surveillance to point out irresponsible conditions. The regional health undertaking, in this context Health South-East, is responsible for correcting indebtedness. The regional health undertaking must itself take corrective action if it is not offered or provided with adequate and sound healthcare in the region. I have asked Health South-East to inform me of the measures taken at the maternity ward in Kongsberg after the report from the Health Inspectorate in Buskerud was available in October last year. According to Health South-East, Vestre Viken health companies started to close detected deviations when the preliminary report was ready in September 2009. The Health Authority set a deadline of 20 January 2010 to explain the measures and timetable for closing the deviations. Vestre Viken HF, Kongsberg, replied to this in a letter to the Supervisory Board on 21 December 2009, i.e. one month before the deadline of the Health Authority. Most measures have been implemented and a deadline has been set for the implementation of the remaining measures. According to Health South-East, work on closing the deviations has continued continuously. The birthplaces of Western Viking health care establishments shall have a meeting tomorrow and agree on common criteria for the pregnant women to be born where, so-called criteria for the selection of births. I am kept constantly informed by Health South-East about developments, and I will be informed when the maternity ward can be re-opened. Of course, the most important thing is that the department complies with the requirements for proper operation. For the time being, Health South-East ensures that birthables are properly cared for by means of the services available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1419	I also, of course, fully agree that it is very important for a Western Viking health company to make the necessary changes to allow this food supply to be reopened, and then to open up with an offer that is sound and in line with the quality requirements we make. However, I am asking myself about the information that one immediately started to close the issues raised by the Health Inspectorate at the time that the Council of State here informs me, bearing in mind that in the board case that was dealt with on 28 January, about the supervision that had been carried out by the health companies in West Viken, is under this case: Not closed. Plans for further work have been created. The most serious, in my opinion, in that supervisory report was the question of selection, and the Council of State today confirms that there is going to be a meeting tomorrow to clarify the selection issue. This cannot be closed as early as October.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1426	I will not be perceived as saying that this was closed in October. However, it was already started when the preliminary report came, by closing the deviations. It's not about one anomaly, it's about many things that need to be improved. There is a longer report, where there are different actions to be implemented and how many of them have been implemented, but not all. It's clear that when it comes to selection, there might be different types of selection, there might be some types of births. Now you have to go through and look at what kind of births can be on Kongsberg. This will also depend on the type of competence available, and what watch arrangements are available to create a proper supply of food at the Kongsberg hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1433	First, I would like to ask that a written briefing be given on what measures were taken when the Vestre Viken health company carried out this inspection. Point two: We have also received — and still do — supervisory reports with similar or similar content. I would also like to ask the Council of State whether she generally has a view that health businesses are immediately starting to work on the closure of these kinds of issues, and that it is taken sufficiently seriously in the health companies' boards when health supervision produces these types of reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1440	It is clear that it is essential to follow the legislation and guidelines on the proper operation of health establishments. Nevertheless, we see that there has been aberrations that have been so significant that a food department has had to be closed. It is also a strong and serious reminder to everyone else that following the guidelines, ensuring that there is sound manpower, competence and all the aspects that are important in order to have a safe offer are in place. Of course, this is also something that we'll follow up on. I know that it is sometimes problematic to maintain sufficient competence around. There's a lot based on vicariates. We have to go through this and see if all parts of the offer are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1447	Question 15 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1453	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘A review by the NRK of 75 law-enforcement convictions in the last 10 years shows that parents who abuse or kill their own children receive far lower penalties than adults who harm other adults. How does the Council of State assess this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1462	The raising of this issue gives me the opportunity to correct two obvious misunderstandings that have shaped the news over the past few weeks, namely that children do not enjoy the same criminal protection as adults, and that violence and abuse against children are punishable less than similar abuses against adults. This is, of course, not correct, and it is regrettable that such an impression has been made on the basis of the report by the NRK. We have responded many times to this in public, and it is also known that on 5 February the Riksadvokat wrote a chronicle about this and rejected what is really the basis for the whole debate. There is no doubt that children enjoy the same criminal protection against physical impairments of integrity as adults. The abolition of the right of punishment in 1972, subsequent legislative changes in the criminal law and international obligations on the protection of children all point in the same direction, namely against the constant strengthening of the legal protection of children against physical abuse and gross violence. I just have to add: it should just be missing. Nor is it right that the level of penalties in cases of violence and abuse against children is lower than in similar cases of abuse against adults. On the contrary, it is punishable if the offence has been committed against children. With regard to the review of the NRK, I am not sufficiently familiar with the details of this, but the result of the review may indicate that there have been weaknesses in the survey methodology. I have also brought that up with the journalist concerned. The overall picture will not be correct if one compares without taking into account the need for the court to measure the penalty according to the level of guilt proven in each case. As I said, the National Attorney General elaborates this point in his chronicle in the Evening Post on February 5th and points out that it is not possible to judge anyone for killing unless there is evidence of persuasion – that it is considered that it is likely that death would occur. In this case, other and milder criminal provisions must be used, e.g.: too negligent killing. This is also done when the victim is an adult. The penalty scheme varies for the different criminal provisions, but applies regardless of the age of the victim. Therefore, a comparison of the results of the violence, as the NRC has done in its investigation, is not correct. Having said that, I still believe that the level of punishment for violence in close relations is too low, but not based on a justification similar to that made by the NRC for its report. We've been working on this for many years. I have participated in publishing a book about it, and many measures have been taken. This also applies when parents commit violence against children. That is why, in the Soria Moria Declaration, we have proposed, by new criminal law, a significant increase in the level of penalties for such cases – an increase in the level of penalties for violence against children, the killing of children and sexual abuse of children. The size has joined these proposals. Before this law enters into force, however, in order to get this started as early as possible, I want to promote a proposition that will propose legislative changes in the old penal code, so that changes can take effect as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1481	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. I'm very happy to hear that it's punishable rather than the opposite in the practice of violence against children. I am also very pleased with the debate you have had after the study by the NRK. But this is more than just a criminal measure — it's about constantly focusing on children's rights and well-being. I perceive the Council of State as willing to turn any stone to get as far as possible there. I'm very happy about that. I think, in particular, that we all have a responsibility, not least to prevent violence and abuse against children. What opportunities does the Council of State see in this way – if we go more to the prevention aspect and that we all have a responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1488	It's obviously important that we prevent. At the same time, the national lawyer points out in his article – and I fully agree – that one of the main challenges we face is to discover several of these issues. We're often too focused on what kind of punishment and how long the punishment is. And then we know that there are great dark numbers. So what's really the big problem is all those who don't get a punishment. That's why the government has chosen, over the last four years, to set up a number of tools for us to discover more of this crime. It concerns the establishment of children's homes. This applies to their own special teams in the police districts. This concerns the full-time family violence coordinator. It concerns its own provision of legal aid, extended compensation for victims of violence for this group, its own child emergency phone and a number of decisive measures in the police and justice sectors. I think it also seems preventive when we get more issues, more focus on it and more people talk about it. The focus is also on health services and in schools on this issue, not only to punish, but also to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1497	I thank you for your answer. I would really like to hear a little more reflections about actions and instruments in the future. It's been done a lot, and it's done a lot. It's interesting to follow this. We have zero vision in other areas of society. Maybe one could imagine having a zero vision of violence and assault on children reaching out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1504	Me and the Government have zero vision in terms of child abuse, there has never been any debate – that is the goal. But when the representative asks for tools, it's clear that then we have to do something other than just say that we have zero vision. With regard to the measures now being taken against violence in close relationships, there is an action plan with 50 measures nationally and globally. Many of them are in progress. Fortunately, we have broad support in Stortingen for this, and we see that the instruments are now starting to work. We've had between 500 and 1,000 kids in children's homes in the last few years. We see that more and more people are using the extended measures that we are taking against perpetrators who need help to deal with their problems of violence. We see that interventions in schools and kindergartens are useful to address this in the past. But I also attend to the Storting's consideration of future proposals, to see if we should do more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1523	This question lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1529	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘In a leadership article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 19 January 2010, a question mark was put to Statnett’s trust when it relates to the expansion of the planned 420 kV line in Hardanger. The Official Journal of Bergen has at another time shown that the communication director of Statnett, at NRK, claimed that the Bergen network was reddish-hot, while newspapers could prove that there was good capacity on the grid, even during a cold period. This is damaging to Statnett's trust. What would the State Council do to restore trust?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1536	The opinion referred to by the representative Lødemel was debated by the Norwegian Tourist Association. The subsequent fact-finding of Bergen’s Official Journal on the network’s capacity towards the Bergen area was commented on by Statnett by the company’s communications director. The comment refers to the transmission towards the area, which is true, with a sufficient safety margin in most of the hours of the year. The communication director indicates that the problem is that for an increasing number of hours of the year, the network is entering the area without faulty incidents, which could lead to darkening. In this context, it is important to point out that the network needs to be dimensioned for maximum expected peak consumption, rather than average consumption over the year. Both Statnett and NVE have confirmed in written opinions to the reports the security of supply problems in the BKK area. A secure power supply is based on the principle that any component of the central network can fall out without affecting society. The BKK area has high self-production of power, high consumption and low transmission networks. In the winter half, there is a great need for the transfer of power into the area. In the summer there is a need to get the power out. The peak consumption in the BKK area has increased by 30 pst in the last five years. Today there are two transmission lines entering the region: the lines Mauranger – Samnanger and Modalen–Evanger. The outcome of one transmission line shall be tolerated without contacting customers. Thus, total imports cannot exceed the capacity of the Mauranger-Samnanger pipeline, which has a capacity limit of 800 MW. However, during periods, there is now a transfer requirement to the area of close to 900 MW. Even today, there is too high a risk that fault situations will lead to a loss of power for consumers throughout the region. At the same time, the risk of prolonged outcomes increases. BKK has introduced automatic consumption disconnection in critical situations to limit the extent of darkening. In my view, extensive use of the consumption disconnection is unacceptable. Such use indicates that the system does not have the capacity to provide the increased maximum load in the BKK area. As the State Network Communications Director refers to, the number of hours of vulnerable operation is increasing. The situation is critical for a region with its second largest city and vital industrial and petroleum facilities. There is a great need for a safer power supply to the BKK area. A failure of power supply will have a significant impact on business, on consumers and on the welfare of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1551	I thank you for your answer. I see that this is a difficult matter, but I still hope that the Minister will take seriously the critical signals that have been given to Statnett. I mean, Bergen's magazine has run good critical journalism. They have focused on a very important issue both for the region and for the country. We see a lot of examples of people getting engaged to the Hardanger powerline. There are also important elements in the reports from Societal and Business Research and Vista Analysis that point to this. Issues are also raised about the voltage upgrade of existing networks, possibly in combination with an SVC facility, may reduce the need for the new line. What does the Council of State think that so many people are getting involved and that so many critical questions are being asked about the distributions from Statnet in many places?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1560	Firstly, it is healthy for a general procedure in Norway that there is involvement and that claims are tested and criticised in and on their own. As I see it, in the matter that the representative here mentions, as in other matters, we should be pleased. As for the involvement of power lines, I think we see an entrance, an engagement, which is understandable on the one hand, but which on the other hand is demanding for decision-makers, because it will very often be local resistance to expansion projects, while at the same time seeing that there is a national need to make expansions. The situation we have in Middle Norway now is a good example of that. There, as a large community, we have neglected the development of lines and also the expansion of power over time, and we see today that we have a difficult situation. We need to ensure that we do not have more Middle Norway situations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1567	I thank you for your answer. Another thing that also engages is the price zone policy for electricity. This way of regulating the price of electricity creates large price differences and challenges, both for business and for individuals. The last day's Business yesterday it was shown that after the fourth price range of electricity was created on 11 January, there has been a large increase in the electricity price of the Austland. Will the Council of State take a critical review of the system of price zones for electricity to see if this is the best way to solve the bottleneck problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1574	Price zones are just an example that we have too little network, that we have too little capacity and that there has been long-term neglect in terms of our power grid. We cannot both be critical of new network deployments, new lines and infrastructure construction, while being critical of price ranges. If we want, as I do, one common price of electricity in Norway, we need to build more networks. We can't expect it to happen without any resistance, and without it remaining in areas where the local people don't want it to happen. What we are now seeing about price is the best way to make sure that we have too poor a system today, and the best argument for building more networks in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1583	‘In the new Land Act, the obligation to operate was transferred from 1 July 2009 to the Land Act and the provision was tightened. The land law now requires the owner to run the land himself, or rent it out for a period of at least 10 years, without the possibility for the land owner to cancel the contract. It must, with all due respect, be the same and no matter who drives the earth, only the earth is active. Does the Council of State agree that this law will result in a solid bureaucracy that lacks reasonable justification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1590	I am pleased that the representative Treldal addresses the management of the food soil in a situation where the world faces major challenges in terms of climate and food security. The government takes this seriously, among other things. in the case of changes implemented in relation to the operational obligations. With effect from 1 July 2009, new obligations to operate were introduced in the Law on Soil. The former abstention was lifted together with the legal obligation to operate under the Concession Act and the Odel Act. The new obligation to operate can be fulfilled by the owner driving the land himself or by renting out the land. As the representative Treldal mentions, the law lays down certain conditions for rental, for example. the lease must be ten years old without any possibility of cancellation for the landowner. However, such provisions have existed since 1995. The new thing is that it applies to all agricultural land, and that they are not limited in time, so that it becomes wider. It is true that the tasks of the municipality in assessing and verifying whether the rental conditions are met will increase somewhat in relation to today, but there is no system of prior approval of rental contracts. The contracts concluded must be submitted to the municipalities, which thus have the opportunity to go through them in order to capture the cases where the contracts do not comply with the law. In this context, I would like to mention that the Department is now going through the guidance material for municipalities to ensure efficient and targeted management. I do not agree that the legislation lacks a reasonable justification. The conditions imposed on the rental situation are aimed at reducing the disadvantages arising regularly from rentals. Up towards 40 pst. agricultural land is currently leased land, which unfortunately means that a lot of land is not kept in good enough claim and that short-term leases are the basis for large parts of agricultural production. Renting land is an uncertain resource base to base investments on for the future. Ten-year leases without the possibility of cancellation for landowners will increase predictability for landowners and provide landowners with a more long-term and stable resource base while increasing incentives to make investments in order to maintain the agricultural area in the best possible way. At the same time, the possibility of exemption is intended to capture those cases where it is not possible for landowners to fulfil the obligation to operate or where it must be relaxed under the conditions of disembarkation. The possibility of exemption is real and of course needs to be developed through practice and good judgement in municipalities. I started by stressing the importance of good food management in the future. A long-term and solidarity perspective suggests that tools to contribute to the efficient production of food need to be strengthened. The drive obligation respects the desire to safeguard the areas for the production of food and contributes to the maintenance of the production characteristics. This requires a long-term perspective on operations, not a short-term gain that could defuse the earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1603	There is no great shock to me that we do not agree with this. We see that the faulty red-green policy has never left more farms around the country. Then I will ask the council a follow-up question: the council often states that farmers are self-employed. How can the Council of State express it, at the same time as removing the individual's property rights and refusing the individual farmer to decide on his own business?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1610	It's an old rule that soil is to be kept in claim, and that's what we also do with the changes in the soil law, or adaptation of the soil law, that have now been made. I am concerned about private property rights, and I am concerned that one should be able to dispose of the property completely, but at the same time I am concerned that the land should be kept in claim. What we've seen is that leases in many cases lead to landowners not getting predictability in their operations, and he doesn't dare to invest in the land. What we have now introduced with ten-year agreements means that landowners will have greater predictability and will be able to invest, mine and upgrade the soil route, in order to ensure that we have a more efficient production of food and a better soil base. It's unmistakably positive. The time limit that we have is not new, it's old, and it's already been there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1619	I record that the answer from the Minister and what is stated in the ‘Center Party’s value base’ is not entirely consistent. I would like to quote from the program of the Center Party: ‘The ideaology of the Centre Party is based on the ideas of responsibility, community and long-term and sustainable management of nature and the environment. A living rule of peoples and the decentralisation of ownership, power, capital and constitution are fundamental elements of the Central Party's policy. [[...]] The central party will therefore decentralize power’ – which is not the answer – ‘and will decide so that most people can participate in important decisions and participate in the construction of society’. Then my last follow-up question becomes to the Council of State: why does he remove the right of self-determination and the possibility of sustainable local democracy by introducing unnecessary drive-related bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1635	It is a great pleasure for me to hear the representative of the Progress Party reading out important and good points from the program of the Centre Party. I think the Progress Party with greater interest should have been involved in that programme and learned from good wording to ensure long-term Norwegian agriculture, and not least to ensure production across the country. With regard to the question of how we exercise responsibility for the obligations of a food producer today, all food producers have transfer arrangements through the agricultural contract system. They are also required to keep the earth in claim. What we've been trying to figure out here is a balance sheet. We want to ensure that the soil is kept in claim and is a basis for future food production. I do not see any challenges or problems with regard to the programme from which the representative has so carefully read.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1644	That's good!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1650	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘More players in the fishing industry are now taking the initiative to strengthen the revenue base by allowing for greater flexibility in relation to vessels through joint fishing. In this context, the industry’s economic and safety challenges are one of these. Will the Council of State take an initiative to promote greater quota flexibility for the fishing industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1659	In several requests, the Norwegian Fisheries Team has requested the introduction of a temporary co-fishing scheme for the smallest fleet, less than 11 metres. Such a scheme would mean that the quotas of two vessels are fished with one and therefore necessarily have to be similar to the previous operating arrangements. This was wound up with the support of all, except for the Christian People's Party member, of the SEC during the previous period. It was a nearly pure-bred scheme for annual quota trading, thus poorly harmonizing with the principles of ordinary quota allocation and structural policy used elsewhere. This concerns in particular the fact that allocated allowances are to be fished by the vessel to which the quota has been allocated and that the vessel owner cannot afford and obtain income from the annual quota by other means than fishing it. I would like to stress that there are no obstacles in today's legislation to two ship owners working together to fish the quotas, but both vessels that have been allocated the quota must be used. The safety aspect of the fishing effort has also been addressed by the fact that a co-fishing system could mean that fewer fishing alone can be achieved in this way. Economically, of course, there may be advantages in using only one boat. The fourth year's cod season was bad for many. The economy of these fishermen has been weakened and the prospects for 2010 are similarly weak. I therefore understand that the industry now wants schemes that can help improve fishing profitability. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries is currently considering the proposal for co-fishing, and I will be considering the proposal in the near future. There are some fundamental and practical questions that need to be resolved, but I also understand that the matter is urgent for the planning and closure of this year's fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1672	I appreciate the answer from the Council of State. Of course, I fully agree that the operating aid scheme that was before was removed, because it worked in many ways against its purpose. In many ways, I also see the co-operation as an important measure for recruiting younger fishermen. The problem that we do not have a structuring in this part of the fleet that has been successful in other parts of the fleet also has an economic aspect: costs of operating two smaller vessels. It may be linked to the purchase of yarns, search equipment, etc., which makes it expensive for the individual, especially when we see that we often operate very marginally in this fleet. I'm positive with the answer from the Council of State, but I wonder if the Council of State can say a little bit more about what time factor we're talking about here. These recordings have also been made in the past – among others: in a question here in the 2007 Chamber, among others. this was recorded. Can the Council of State help us to get ahead of ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1681	As I said, in the near future, I will take a stand on the proposal before us. For me, it has been very important to make sure in the case that we were able to find a solution, that it was not similar to the previously mentioned operating system. We all agree that is an important principle. There is no doubt that this fleet in particular has tough days, they are struggling. At the same time, I must say that I have had a meeting with the Raw Fish Team earlier today. We agreed that they haven't had years very far back where the economy was a completely different one. Fishing prices fluctuate, as we know. So the picture is probably complex, but that's a challenge for the moment, there's no doubt about it. It is important that at least there is a system whereby there are two active vessels capable of co-fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1688	I don't need to ask a question, but I just want to say that I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, which I feel is positive. Then I would ask that you try to get ahead of yourself and come up with a solution, precisely because it is a theme that has been lying and floating for a while. Nor has it – as I can see it – happened since the last question was asked, in 2007, then, of course, to another fisheries minister. I hope that the current Minister for Fisheries will get ahead of us and get it resolved in the best possible way, and I look forward to the solution that will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1695	Do the Councils need to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1698	I have noticed the recommendation on progress in the matter, and I take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1703	That being so, the examination of case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-10.ana.ud2182e1716	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
