ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e53	The representatives Morten Höglund and Karin S. Woldseth, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The President takes the opportunity to congratulate Mr Höglund on the fact that, while the representative has been away, he has been elected chairman of the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation. He will represent Norway in the important position. Congratulations on your job! The representative of Laila Davøy shall apply for leave from 22 November to 25 November to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels, Geneva and Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Filip Rygg, is hereby invited to meet from 23 November to 25 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e81	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e84	I have the pleasure on behalf of representatives Laila Davøy, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself to promote a proposal for a full foster home coverage by 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e89	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e101	I appreciate the fact that the Storting is positive to my desire to make a comprehensive statement on the situation in child protection. The children in need of child protection belong to one of the most vulnerable groups in our society. They need help from more than their parents to get a safe growth. We politicians are responsible for ensuring that they get the help they need. The object paragraph of the Children's Protection Act is ready. The protection of children shall ensure that children and young people living under conditions likely to harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. In this way, the protection of children shall contribute to secure conditions of growth for children and young people. Those words are not to be misunderstood. As politicians, we, together with the child-restraint workers, must ensure that the words are filled with content. I have therefore asked to explain the status of work in the field of child protection, and what plans I have in the future. I hope the presentation can help lift up the good work done in child protection. Child protection is subject to increased political attention, and child protection in municipalities has increased pressure in the form of more and more cases. The government's taking hold. The proposal for the 2011 State Budget represents a promise for the protection of children. More and more children are being helped by child protection. During 2009, 46 500 children and young people received help, which is an increase of 46 pst. from 2000 to 2010. It is positive that child protection is able to capture children who are subjected to care failure and abuse and who need public assistance. There has also been a turn around in society's perception of child protection. In the past, the service was often unjustly accused of taking children from their parents. Now I hear more often criticism that child protection is too late or too rare to intervene, or that the measures are not good enough. The main work for and for children and young people is done in municipalities. Local authorities are making good efforts to prevent problems among children and young people, among other things. through schools, health centres and different youth work. Substantial efforts are also being made in the field of child protection, and the use of the municipal child protection service has increased in recent years. We see that the trust in child protection has been strengthened, and that the threshold for contacting child protection has been lower. The legitimacy of child protection actions, measures and interventions has increased. It's all good. Greater attention to vulnerable children leads to more child protection messages today than before from school, kindergarten, health centre, doctor and police. It is positive that even more parents than before are asking for child protection for help. I believe this development is primarily due to the fact that child protection in municipalities is doing a good job. Then the paradox is that increased trust and good child protection work leads to more cases and to greater workload. It puts the Child Protection Service in a difficult situation. There has been a steady increase in the number of cases and measures in the field of child protection without corresponding growth in the number of employees. I am therefore concerned that children have to wait too long for measures and assistance from child protection, because the system does not have enough capacity to take matters away. The child protection service must be resourceful and capable of meeting this growth. Children in need of child protection are different, but in common with them, they have adults around them who are not alone able to give them the care they need. Then they should not have to wait a long time to get the help they need from child protection. Over 80 pst. Of the 46,500 children receiving child protection, it is provided by municipal child protection in its local environment. The municipality has the best assumption to help the child in a holistic and good way. By early entry, municipal child protection can reverse a negative trend. Family, family, community and kindergarten/school can be drawn to help the child. The municipality also has a comprehensive responsibility when the child is located in foster homes or in an institution. The municipality must be able to solve these important problems. In the 2010 budget, the government provided 400 new posts in the field of child protection in the growth of free income. Provisional reporting indicates that the target is not met. However, several municipalities have stated that in 2010 they have invested considerable resources in prevention activities through school, health centre and youth work to capture children in the risk zone and provide early help. But it is child-restraint services that are to take care of the most vulnerable children. In Report. St. 7 for 2009–2010, Review of special statutory housing for the supervision of municipalities, it appears that child protection does not catch cases in time. There are many deadlines for carrying out studies and a large proportion of cases are pending. Many children receive help, but not the follow-up required by the law. The government is doing something about that. In the 2011 government budget proposal, we're adding up to earmark 240 million. to increase the number of municipal child protection posts. It shall contribute to good follow-up and assistance to vulnerable children. Designation is a tool that we use only in very special situations. Child protection is now in such a situation. Then the state must help this group of children to get what they need so that they can have a good future. Neither child protection nor children have powerful organisations or large press groups in their backs. The earmarked funds are allocated by the county upon application by the municipalities. New posts shall have the main priority, but municipalities with a sufficient number of posts may apply for funds for some other measures that will strengthen child protection. A circular on how to distribute these funds has now been sent to all the municipalities and county councillors of the country. The deadline for applying for the municipalities is 31 January 2011. In order to ensure that the work of the Child Protection Service is lifted on the municipal policy agenda, applications from the municipality to the county shall be processed by the local council or by the body to which the local council has delegated powers. The new funds correspond to 400 new posts. It is the greatest promise for municipal child protection since the Sandman funds, which were granted early in the 1990s. Children's protection and social affairs students meet, among other things: decisions requiring children to stay away from home and decisions on measures for children with behavioural problems. In 2009, they received 4,032 cases. As of 31 August 2010, there has been an increase in the number of cases of a total of 19 pst. from the same period last year. Lack of capacity in the counties has led children to have to wait too long for their care situation to be clarified. As of 31 August 2010, there were 672 pending cases in the counties. The Government therefore proposes that the allocation to the county councils be increased by 10 million. kr in 2011 and those funds shall be used to increase capacity in the denominators and to strengthen administrative management. Foster homes are one of the most important measures in the field of child protection. When children cannot live at home, it is best for most people to grow up in another family. That's why we need a well-developed foster home offering across the country. In 2009, there were over 10,000 children and young people in foster homes. In addition, there were nearly 1,400 children and young people in shelters. In 2009, 1252 new children were born to foster parents. Today, however, over 170 children are waiting in line for a foster home offer. Many of these young people have lived for a long time in difficult living conditions. Not knowing where to live and what school to go to creates anxiety and insecurity. If there's something these kids need, it's stability and security. Strengthening foster home provision is a priority task for the government. Buffetate has received clear demands from the department to prioritize the recruitment of foster homes. All regions now report increased efforts to provide more foster homes. Regional recruitment projects have been established, with the development of competences, thematic campaigns and increased cooperation between foster home services on recruitment and training activities at the centre. Increased use of foster homes in the child’s family and network is a central objective. Recruitment of foster homes is initially a public task of Bufetat. Bufetate will continue to have overall responsibility for ensuring that within each region there is a sufficient number of foster homes to meet the different location needs. But in a situation where we lack foster homes, it is important that the state cooperates with private, ideal actors in the recruitment of foster homes. I have asked the Children's, Youth's and Family's Directorate to implement such cooperation. The feedback from the directorate is that they already have good experience in cooperating with the Salvation Army on the recruitment of foster homes in one of the regions. The Directorate has now invited both the Salvation Army and other non-profit organisations to a cooperation meeting to learn from the experience and share the ideas with all regions, so that there can be cooperation with non-profit organisations on foster home recruitment across the country. In addition, the Directorate is planning to acquire special foster homes from NPISHs. This acquisition will be ready at the beginning of 2011. State foster homes accept children with demanding additional challenges. It's necessary to compensate these extras. In the 2011 budget, we have proposed an increase of 120 million in government child protection funding. kr to the state foster homes. A new foster home agreement for the municipal foster homes will be sent to the municipalities before the turn of the year. The purpose of drawing up a new agreement is to clarify the responsibilities and to clarify the responsibilities of the municipality towards foster homes. Foster children are a vulnerable group that should avoid moving unnecessarily. The goal is to build solid and good foster homes that last over time. In order to avoid the disintegration of a well-functioning foster home, foster parents need good information, support and guidance both before and during placement. The first year after a new placement, all foster parents shall be offered, as far as possible, to participate in guidance groups with other foster parents. In the future, it will be an important task for me to focus on the work of putting in place good and stable foster homes. This happens, among other things: by giving priority to the recruitment of multiple foster homes, training activities, good information and support to foster parents. There has been a turnaround from placing children and young people in institutions to use home-based interventions and foster homes. It's a desired development from a pediatric perspective. In general, research can draw the conclusions that institutions help some but not all. Housing has little or even harmful effects for some children and young people, but can change the course of life in a positive way for others. Good institutions as part of the measure are therefore not only a necessary but also a desirable part of child protection in the future. It is therefore important that institutional capacity is sufficient. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family states that there are no waiting lists for institution placement. This means that no child is in line because there are no institutional spaces. Different factors are involved in assessing the quality of institutional services. Firstly, we need to avoid infectious effects because children and young people with different problems are placed in the same place. Secondly, we have to involve family and school when children are placed in institutions, and municipalities have to follow the youth better after leaving institutions. Thirdly, the provision of institutions must reflect the different needs of children. That is why we must have a differentiated institutional offer. There's something the directorate has taken hold of. Regardless of the child’s experience of stress or wear in everyday life, child protection shall ensure that the child is properly assisted. It requires cooperation with other services that also have a responsibility for the provision of help to children. I will briefly mention some groups of children who need better follow-up in the institutions. I'm worried about kids who have mental problems. A research project is now under way to find out how best to design a good institutional offer for this target group. Children and young people with a defined drug problem need a better offer. Unfortunately, we have learned that young people with drug problems have died as a result of drug problems while under the care of child protection. It's not acceptable. Bufdir has created an action plan to ensure better assistance for this group of children. A course package will be developed to be distributed to all child protection institutions by the end of the year. All institutional managers are required to complete the course for their employees in order to increase their knowledge of the subject. Buffetat has also started work to identify the life situation of young people with drug problems — young people for whom child protection is a responsibility. A specific drug treatment model is implemented in two child-rescue institutions, one in the West region and one in the East region. Some children and young people at an early age exhibit extensive and serious criminal behaviour. Follow-up to these youth is mainly in the justice sector. To help children out of a criminal activity, close cross-border cooperation is required throughout the criminal proceedings, from police or other alerts to child protection until the follow-up after the end of the settlement. Child protection will be able to assist police and criminal services when the child is in a very vulnerable situation and needs the necessary assistance and care under the Child Protection Act. Child protection is also responsible for following up the children after the end of the criminal proceedings. The government will present to spring a legislative proposal following NOU 2008:15, Children and Penalties, which will address a comprehensive fight against childhood and juvenile delinquency. We are now cooperating with the Ministry of Justice on the follow-up to the NOU on children and punishment. As a pilot project, the government has established a specific youth unit in Bergen for young offenders aged 15 to 18. A similar unit is being established in the East. The units are subject to criminal law and their purpose is to meet the specific needs of young people in the context of detention. The units will include, among others: provide close follow-up of highly qualified professionals. The most important thing for me is that the children who need it get good help. However, a focus on children is also beneficial from a broader perspective. Efforts for children and young people today reduce expenditure on other public budgets in the future. However, this does not prevent us from having to gain increased control of the increase in child protection expenditure and better professional management at the same time. In order to achieve the most efficient use of resources, it is important that we make full use of the capacity of our own institutions before buying places on the private market. Private institutions shall be complementary to the public child protection service. When purchasing private spaces, the government has chosen to give priority to non-profit actors. We will look at how best to organise the purchase of child protection services in order to ensure the quality of the provision to the children and that the resources benefit the children. Supervision shall ensure that the legal certainty of children is ensured. That is why all children in foster homes are entitled to supervisors. According to the municipal reports for the first half of 2010, 816 out of the 7,117 children who should have had supervisors were not appointed as supervisors. The regulatory requirement for the number of supervision was not met for 36.5 pst. by children in the first half of 2010. It's very unfortunate. I want to send a letter to the municipalities in the country, where we stress the municipality's responsibility for recruiting and appointing supervisors. The county council is responsible for overseeing the child protection institutions. Supervision shall contribute to ensuring the quality of child protection and to ensuring the legal certainty of children. The most important thing we can do to understand how a child has it is to talk to it. In order to talk to the children, the supervisory authorities must come when the children are at home. I have asked the State Health Authority to provide a systematic overview of the scope of the individual officials' conversation with the children. State health oversight shall focus in 2011 on the need for supervisory authorities to communicate with the children and to develop competences on how to communicate with children under supervision in the best possible way. The legal security of children and young people in child protection institutions shall be ensured through good care, protection and protection of their personal integrity. The Ministry has carried out a review of the regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying in a child protection institution, the so-called ‘rights’ regulation. The consultation period has just expired and the Ministry will now begin the review of the hearing opinions. However, all dilemmas cannot be resolved by legislative changes. The relationship between the rights of children and the use of coercion is a fundamental theme of child protection, where debate on the subject will continue to be needed. I believe that the use of coercion is sometimes necessary. However, there is little evidence that long-term and extensive use of coercive measures contributes to the reduction of problem behaviour. For the sake of children, we should focus on developing good professional alternatives rather than extending the use of coercion. High quality of the measures applied is essential to change the child’s situation. Child protection cannot experiment with the future of children. The help we provide must therefore contribute to a positive change for the child, based on research-based knowledge. For several years, we have intensified research efforts to gain knowledge about what actions work for whom. We therefore target research efforts against children in foster homes and against what aid measures work. Through a systematic effort over several years, we have now come a long way in developing measures for children who have major behavioural problems, and we see that it benefits these children. It is equally important that the service itself evaluates the effectiveness of the assistance provided. Municipalities now have a legal obligation to evaluate the relief measures and to assess whether alternative measures should be implemented. It will require other actions and activities to be undertaken if those put into service do not produce the expected result. We must constantly be open to developing and implementing new measures in the field of child protection, as long as this provides a positive development for the child. In this work, we need to listen to both users of the measures, i.e. to children and the family, to the field of practice and to the research and knowledge environments. In following up children with complex problems, services also need to work together to provide better help. Municipalities are obliged to make individual plans for children in need of long-term and coordinated action from several services. It is a tool to interact best with the child. In 2008, the government set up a selection to assess better coordination between different services for vulnerable children and young people. In NOW 2009:22, what you are doing is doing completely – better coordination of services for vulnerable children and young people, 15 concrete proposals have been made to improve coordination. The investigation has been carried out at wide consultation, and several departments are now reviewing the proposals of the sample. Amendments to the Child Protection Act transferred county responsibility in the field of child protection to the State from 1 January 2004. The change was endorsed by an overall Grand Committee. The aim of the reorganisation was to obtain a good, equivalent and differentiated response apparatus for the whole country. The children’s, youth and family budget, through the reform, was entrusted with the responsibility of assisting the child protection service in the municipalities. The responsibility consists of the placement of children away from home, the recruitment and dissemination of foster homes and the establishment and operation of child-restraint institutions. We now have a few years of experience in this reorganization. Many have strong opinions as to whether the organisation has contributed to a better child protection for children. Both the size of the population, important voices in the field of child protection and the media have been and are critical of the protection of state children. Questions related to shifting power, red tape, duplication of effort and the appropriateness of the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality are asked. This has also been mentioned in several reports. We're going to have a complete child protection in Norway. In order to achieve such a whole, the organisation must be appropriate, and cooperation between state and municipal child protection must be good. It's working to improve this. The professional teams are Bufetat's link to the municipalities, and it is essential that the cooperation between the team and the municipality works. Bufdir has recently – in October this year – issued new guidelines for the work of the teams. Templates for cooperation agreements between professional teams and municipalities are also being developed. We need to know more about what's going on in order to get even better child protection. I have now launched a research-based evaluation to determine whether the objectives of the reorganisation have been achieved. The evaluation looks at the interaction and the mutual impact between State child protection and other relevant actors, i.e. municipal child protection, child protection and social affairs councils, county councillors, mental health protection, care and family protection. The main emphasis of the evaluation is on challenges related to the interaction between the country and the municipality. We also evaluate whether the provision of institutions is good enough, and whether it is good enough to control and control the state child protection – from the ministry to the ultimate in the governance chain. We also examine the appropriateness of responsibility and funding for the protection of children in the state and municipal areas. The compilation of the results of the evaluation shall be completed in March 2012. I now invite you to a debate on the future organisation of child protection. I want all important voices to be heard – both the children themselves, research environments and those who work in child protection. The government will meet that evaluation and that debate with an open mind. I have therefore set up a Children's Protection Panel, which will be involved and contribute to a debate on how we can create the child protection of the future. Child protection gives rise to a high level of commitment. Therefore, major changes in the organisation of child protection are also creating debate. No alterations shall be made unnecessarily. I want to be sure that the grips I take are based on good documentation and broad debate. That is why we have launched as comprehensive an evaluation as we now have. However, it is already under way to improve the use of resources in the protection of state children. In recent years, there has been a commitment to the protection of state children, and there has been a nominal increase in appropriations of 70 pst in this sector. from 2004 to today. As a result, many more children have received help. However, we must continue to work to make more efficient use of resources and that money leads to more and better responses for children and young people. In view of this, the 2010 Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate has established a programme 2010. The objective of the programme is twofold: budgetary balance in 2010 and in the years to come, and increased professional attainment through equivalent and knowledge-based child protection with consistent practice. Strengthening cooperation with municipalities is a central theme of the programme. The reports show that the Directorate and the Authority are making considerable efforts to achieve the objectives of the Programme. We see the results of this in the form of a positive economic development so far this year. It therefore appears that the Programme 2010 is working. However, developments also show that the agency has major challenges in achieving the technical objectives of the programme in terms of cooperation with municipalities on the choice of measures, the length of time children will live in institutions, and in terms of institutional expenditure. It is of great importance that the Programme 2010 continues beyond the end of the year. I have now presented key challenges and important steps taken to strengthen child protection. In the end, I would like to draw attention to a number of important areas that I have addressed to further strengthen the situation of child-restraint children. We need to improve the school performance of our child-restraint children. The completion of a training course is of great importance for participation in the labour market and for inclusion in society. We work with the Ministry of Knowledge to find steps that can contribute to this. We need several competent child protection workers who are able to deal with the complex challenges of the future. Educational institutions have a key role to play in building even better child protection. A publicly appointed body has made proposals for quality development in the light of the future competence and qualification needs of child protection. In cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge, we are now considering how to follow up the recommendations of the sample. The follow-up to the investigation is also linked to the Ministry of Knowledge’s new information on education for welfare services. Both of these documents are important for meeting the future's needs for skills in the welfare sector. Furthermore, the government is committed to ensuring that single minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 have a good supply of care. I want to work with the Minister of Justice on how we can do this. Childcare workers face many dilemmas, professional challenges and often face criticism. It is difficult to assess conditions in the life of a child that may affect whether the child can continue to live at home. It is a serious decision to deprive a child’s parents — and to deprive their children of their parents. At the same time, it is unacceptable to leave children in a situation where care fails. I'm going to put down a sample that evaluates whether the biological principle is overemphasized in the work and decisions of child protection, i.e.: Are parents' rights sometimes at the expense of the child's best, and is the threshold for taking care too high? Proposals from public authorities, the Children’s Protection Panel and the evaluation of State child protection shall form part of an overall assessment of child protection. I intend to send a message to the Stortinget about child protection in the autumn of 2012. The Communication shall present and discuss key issues and challenges and present perspectives and proposals for action on the protection of children in the future. In the meantime, the government is already doing a good job of strengthening today's child protection. In conclusion, I would like to briefly summarize what the government has done so far: 240 million. kr has been proposed in the 2011 budget for the design of the municipal child protection scheme, and 10 million. kr has been earmarked for the strengthening of the counties. We established the Children’s Expert Commission in January 2010 to ensure the quality of expert reports on child protection matters. Dispute resolution mechanisms are in place to resolve disagreements on payment liability between the State and the municipality. We have proposed amendments to the right regulation that regulate, inter alia, the use of coercion in child protection institutions, and we will shortly be tabling legislative proposals to the Storting on requirements for more comprehensive police statements for those who are to work in the field of child protection. The competence to deal with drug problems in institutions has been strengthened, and better and more treatment sites have been established. We have launched an evaluation of the child protection reform, and we have started research in foster homes. A selection to investigate the biological principle will be appointed, and we have set up a Child Protection Panel to get input and initiate debate. We have also established a nationwide alarm phone for children and young people who are exposed to violence, abuse and care failure. We have increased the awareness of child protection about how to expose and follow-up children exposed to violence and abuse through the ‘Children living with family violence’ project between 2004 and 2010. We've provided several community child protection guides dealing with (1) the follow-up of biological parents, (2) how to improve cooperation between kindergarten and child protection, and (3) how to talk to children in child protection. I am also concerned that children and young people in the risk zone are caught up early: through the outreach effort targeting young people who have been out of school and working life, several major urban municipalities have taken action to ensure that these young people now receive the follow-up they need to continue schooling or get into work. This effort shall be continued in cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour. In all regions, we are now working systematically on the follow-up of children of mentally ill and drug addicts, from their mother’s pregnancy to the child’s school age. We have also taken action to strengthen the multicultural competence of child protection. Many higher education institutions have offered continuing training in multicultural competences, which we are now evaluating to see if it should be continued. The educational system includes knowledge of child protection in Sami areas. Child protection for the best interests of the child involves the development of child protection where Sami language and culture are also perceived as important and equivalent. We have work to do to encourage children with a minority background to complete school and continue in higher education. We finance the mentoring system Nattergalen, where students in child protection and social education are mentors for minority children. Many children with child protection measures have parents at risk of living in persistent poverty. This has an impact on children’s opportunities for social participation outside school and home, such as leisure activities and the possibility of having holidays with their families. The government grants grants to holiday and leisure activities for children in poor families. They must be guaranteed the possibility of a good life, regardless of the conditions of life and care of their parents. Both government and population have focused their attention on child protection. Child protection has rarely been as high on the political agenda as it is now. It provides common opportunities and shared responsibilities. The road to future child protection is now starting. We want better child protection for the benefit of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e269	The President will propose that the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion report on the situation in the field of child protection be submitted to a later meeting. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e285	I would like to present the Committee's position on this point. This was a project launched by a previous government at the then municipal minister Erna Solberg in 2004. It has been working on a very comprehensive system and a very comprehensive proposal for e-elections. What you want to read from the setting is that a single committee, and in particular a single magnificence, has quite strong objections to the principle itself and the idea of e-election. The basic issue is whether elections are free and independent when they cannot be implemented in a controlled environment. There are also serious legal questions raised by a dissertation that Professor Eivind Smith has made available to the Stortinget. He simply questions whether this is in line with the letter of the law, whether this is compatible with it at all. Of course, the majority of the Committee assumes that all the trials carried out are in line with the law and that the government has a responsibility to ensure it. This is a big debate in the sense that it is a tab of many things that are about how we are going to renew Norwegian democracy, how we are going to engage more people, how we are going to be able to get more people to vote and increase electoral participation – just to make Norwegian democracy more relevant and in line with time and conditions. I would like to say in general that there is a debate that deserves greater space and greater attention than it is given through proposals for e-elections, through proposals for deletion and through proposals for voting rights for 16-year-olds. I think that in the big context there are pretty small things. I think you have to do more work. If democracy is to be made relevant to people in the future, it is primarily about being able to engage people. It's about making the processes that go, important. It's about opening up the political system to both competition and video. It is about giving people the opportunity to vote in rollover elections, e.g. There are debates that I think are big, and that this room could have spent more time and found opportunities to take. I will not spend more time than necessary on this matter. But I want to end by saying that the speeches in the committee's position, both from the majority and the minority, express a great deal of scepticism. We are right about what has been presented as the purpose of the scheme, namely that everyone should have the opportunity to vote electronically at the 2017 Grand Prix. That's something that we're not going to join in any way. I think that if this idea, this scheme, this principle, is going to have some future at all within the Norwegian political system, either by local elections or by large-scale elections, it should be a very alarming result that emerges as a result of this experiment. Then there's a fundamental clarification I want to come with. It's about the relationship between which responsibility lies in this room, which is ours, and what responsibility we assign to municipalities and county councils in the form of an engagement and a desire to try new things. I believe that it must be raised beyond any doubt that it is we, as wholesalers, the Norwegian Grand Prix, who lay the framework and rules for Norwegian democracy, whether it be in this Chamber or in a local government hall. We're the ones who decide who can be chosen, and in what way. So it's not like that because if you have more or less good ideas around the country, we are obliged to say that this is something we want to do. That means it's our responsibility to say yes or no to the voting rights of 16-year-olds, it's our responsibility to say yes or no to electronic voting. And I would add for my own part that I believe it is our responsibility to have an opinion on whether parliamentaryism is a form of governance that belongs within the framework of local self-government as an alternative to the Presidency model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e300	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good and nuanced article. I have to admit that I initially thought the idea of electronic choice outside the polling facilities was very good. In the desire for greater electoral participation, one should think creatively, and high electoral participation is also central and important in our democracy. However, the idea has matured with me and with the Progress Party, and we have come to the conclusion that it might not have been that good anyway. We have explained our vision in the notes. High turnout is of course important, but it must not be at the expense of keeping the elections secret and free. The 2007 elections in my home town, Drammen, are mentioned in the comments. As a local politician in this city for 23 years, it is difficult not to have an opinion on this. The post-election statements indicated that a voice could be purchased for a portion of kebab. There were also examples of other undue influence on voters. Now there have always been examples of undue influence on voters, but it is obvious to me that having e-choices outside the polls will increase the possibilities for such an impact. Either you vote on your home PC at home in the living room or on your phone sitting in a café, there will obviously be opportunities for such an influence. Nor can I escape the idea that this with elections in our democracy, whether local or local elections, should be anything other than daily Internet searches or SMS notifications in connection with TV programs. It should be more serious, as the foundation it is in our constitution. There is also a comment from a joint committee on this issue in our vote. With this I will refer to the comments, and take up the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e317	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e320	I don't think I'm going to have to spend the 30 minutes speaking time allocated to us all here today. I would like to begin by agreeing with the rapporteur very much, even if we end up at a different conclusion. Because, of course, it is right, as the rapporteur said, that an overall committee expresses a great deal of scepticism in being able to cast an electronic vote outside the polling room. That scepticism is basically justified. I feel that in many ways we have been given a clarification with this attitude towards the fact that a large majority in Stortinget, not to say an aggregate increase, is very sceptical to introduce such a scheme in the event of a forthcoming roll-out. In this case, the emphasis must be on "outside the polling stations". Obviously you can imagine some kind of voice system that's a little bit different than putting things in an envelope. That's not the electronic we're against. It is that the vote shall take place under non-controlled forms, outside the polling room. A fundamental principle has just been that there should be freedom of vote. In this context, even the ministry or government cannot guarantee the establishment of any guarantee that such choices will be made free. We have received from the Right an opinion from Professor Eivind Smith on the matter. He writes the following about the case: «In the same way, I think it is sufficient to mention that voting outside the voting room opens up for the purchase and sale of votes in a completely different way from voting under controlled conditions. In the case of a genuine secret choice, the person seeking to ensure that a voter votes in a particular manner cannot verify that the election concerned has actually fulfilled his or her part of the ‘contract’ by voting in an agreed manner.’ In his summary, he also says: «It is clear that electronic voting in an uncontrolled environment will be at the expense of the principle of free and secret elections.» [[...]] We perceive that the principle of free and secret elections is more important to the Storting than to drive bold attempts at electronic voting in an uncontrolled environment. «On this basis», says Professor Eivind Smith, «there is reason to believe that the proposed attempt is contrary to the applicable law, in particular to the legal rules on the right to free and secret elections by which Norway is bound.» The Ministry has a different view of this. But let me say it this way: it's not the first time that the government's view on important legal issues is overruled by the highest court in the country. This, of course, has not happened in this case, but there are other legal opinions than the law department of the Ministry of Justice – which I suppose has been involved in this matter as well. And as I said, it's not the first time the law department loses in the Supreme Court. So on this basis, I dare recommend the proposal that is promoted by the minority. Then you can ask the following question: why in the whole world do you have to do a test if the fundamental concerns are so big that an roughly total magnification says, "This we don't want any of?" The point of an experiment must be to see if it is possible to do it on a large scale. But here the majority say, no thanks, we don't want any of this on a large scale. I agree with the rapporteur on the matter that it is important that everything can help to increase the upturn in the election process – for that matter also in local elections. But this is not an instrument in that direction. There are proposals in Stortinget on a system of at least one of our neighbouring countries, with a greater emphasis on the voice of individuals, even in the case of rollovers. It's a proposal that I hope we can get treatment over the next year, which could have a bearing on the upsurge. But it is clear that there are other aspects of the organisation of our political democracy and of party systems that can be reformed in order to ensure greater integration. Unfortunately, membership figures in the parties have shown a downward trend in recent years. There are also other aspects of active democracy that can be strengthened in order to strengthen their integration. But I see this as a blind lead in work to increase the upswing in elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e346	It is such that the starting point for this matter is a very honourable purpose, namely a fundamental interest and a commitment to strengthening democracy. The idea behind this whole trial project is to try every opportunity to increase the turnout among the population – the interest and the ability to vote in the elections. We have all seen, as all the documents in this case show, that it is the turnout, in particular the falling turnout in our municipal and county elections, that worries. My starting point has been that all the possibilities we have should be tested to improve this situation. And that's also what none of the previous speakers have been involved in, and I think it's important that we also relate to, in this context, the evolution we see in our entire society in the use of ICT. ICT is shaping the whole development of society and our daily lives more and more. Not least among the younger generation, they use ICT. They're familiar with it, they're family with it, and they know it. They understand it in such a way that they use it as a tool in all its contexts. It is these two conditions – that is, this with falling turnout and the desire to increase it and thus strengthen democracy, as one, and ICT development as the other – that were the background for not the current government, but as far back as the Bondevik II government took the initiative to facilitate this test system. That's where it started. So on two occasions, the Storting confirmed that you wanted such a test arrangement. The government has followed up this. This has created a commitment outside the municipalities, and now it includes carefully, I would say, 10 municipalities, which include 160 000 voting rights. So to all the concerns, which are there as well, and which all, at least on the Committee on Control and Constitution, know that I share: when we go into what this trial project involves, in concrete terms, and look at how it is fully practically implemented, and on all the assumptions put in, we see that there are a lot of locks and control mechanisms. What finally led me to go in to carry out the test system, linked to the fact that you can cancel your electronic voting – what you have done on your own PC – and go to the polling room. You have always the ability to appeal for your own vote. I would also like to say that I have been convinced that – although someone might draw on the smileband when I start to comment on ICT solutions, but nevertheless – it is the same barrier to this as the control when we use online banking. Nearly the entire population uses Internet banking, and we have the same barriers to this as on the Internet bank. It's important to have this said, so you know that there are some barriers and checks here, which make this not as dangerous as it sounds. But I will, however, also, to all intents and purposes, join all the concerns. There is one crucial concern that has not been resolved by any of the barriers and assumptions put into the trial, and that is that you do not know in fact the seventh and last who it is as voices. You can't get away with that. And of course that's the concern that makes Professor Eivind Smith, and other speakers for his views, is right in saying that this is a questionable principle, because you can't control it. Nevertheless, I believe, with all the assumptions and opinions expressed in the comments, that it would be right to carry out this experiment, because then the Storting will have a more concrete basis in the next round to say yes or no to the continuation of this. It will probably assume what the rapporteur, Mr. Borten Moe, was in his post here, that you see this in a broad context. I agree with Borten Moe that it would be right that the Storting at some point discussed all these questions in a larger context, because that's where they belong. And then it's easier to take a stand for the different elements in how to organise our future electoral arrangements. I say quite specifically, so that it has also been said, that there is no connection on the part of the Workers' Party to this perspective objective contained in the papers, which is highlighted in the note, and which is now also said from this point of view: we do not agree that this should necessarily lead to the ambition that the entire population should have the opportunity to vote electronically – outside local control, as it is called – in 2017. It's not a goal to which we subscribe, and we have the same concerns as the minority in this case have in their comments, but we believe, however, with the background of this case, that we are carrying out this experiment as it is now proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e365	Let me start with a confirmation I also, because Kolberg came up with it: I'm not computerized. On the contrary, I have worked hard to use this in a reasonable way based on my age. But I see how the youth uses this instrument differently. That is why it is probably more positive to this attempt than other speakers have been, because we see that it is possible to develop democracy in an even better direction with this attempt. That's why we're very pleased that the Minister of State follows up on this that Per-Kristian Foss in the government went in for in his time. That makes a lot of sense. If we're all going to have to try out as big-time representatives, and as most people, it's got to be to develop and improve the people's regime. Then you have to do some tests, and sometimes you get a burning problem. But if you don't try, you'll never find out, and then it kind of just becomes a status quo. This has already created a great deal of commitment, not just here in Parliament, fortunately; for some of the problem is that things we're doing, not simply what people are busy about. But out there, in schools and other places where this is going to be used, there's commitment. According to the Sandnes post, the municipality of Sandnes, which is right-headed, who has right-riders, is very positive about this, and most of the parties are involved. A school, Book Mountain School, has now in November had exercises with e-choices, where they will vote on some local matters to train for what is going to happen next year. Young people there say quite clearly that they believe that this system that is currently being tried will cause more people to vote, and it must be an important driving force, precisely the election process. I'm not going to put this out. I'm just going to say that now we have some experience in future choices. We see what's good, we might see that something is bad, but we don't have to draw the conclusion of that experiment today. It just has to be tried, and then we have to see what happened. Did something go wrong? Can we fix it? Could it be that we should continue on this road? We must have an open mind for this. That's at least SV's starting point. So we are pleased that the Minister of State will come back with an evaluation after the 2011 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e381	There are probably few debates where the last speaker is still in agreement, but I have basically been in this debate – still agreeing with the last speaker. I think that reflects the twin I myself have in relation to this case and the comments we have made. As Langeland said, we also need to consider how we can operate our electoral system so that it is in time. But it is also striking that as far as I can see from the document, the government does not necessarily believe that this is an attempt to get more people to vote. I see that, for example. that Eivind Smith, who has gone through this on behalf of the Right, says. I want to challenge the municipal minister on the legal point that Smith comes up with. How does the Minister of State view the objections raised by Smith in his opinion, which the Right fraction has initiated? It could be interesting, all the time he asks fairly basic questions about this. So we're voting in favour of the trial plan. Let me stress that in this context, it doesn't mean that we're now prepared to say something in principle about what it's going to be like when the trial is over. It has been said in other contexts that you have to have an impact assessment, the ball has kind of started rolling, and you get a conclusion through the process. That is certainly not the case for the Christian People's Party in this matter. I also have to say that I have some concerns about costs here. Ten municipalities to test – 90 million. kr. We have had consultation in the Control and Constitutional Committee on the effectiveness of the police and the lack of ability to operate effectively due to a totally outdated ICT platform. I also expect the government, across departments, to assess how to spend money. That's what we're going to get back to in budgetary procedure, that very part. But we have a program in the Christian People's Party that says we're going to look at the possibility of this, and we're going to vote in favour, but as some people have probably understood, the skepticism of the undersigned is significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e394	There have been many good arguments from here today, both from the case rapporteur and from others. I just want to make some additions. We in the Left are very much in favour of using new technologies in all conceivable areas of Norwegian society, but we believe it is important to set a framework for new technologies on the privacy side, but also to set a framework for it in our democracy. That's why we don't want to introduce e-choices. I want to symbolize it with a story from Old Town – I live in Old Town. In Old Town school, I use to vote. Some options ago I came in, and in front of me was an old couple. The man came in with two passports, two pre-crossed ballots and two finished ballot cards, two meters before his wife who came back. When he arrived at the counter, the election officer rebuked him very sharply and said: Your wife should vote for herself, she should take her passport, her election card and go into that hatch and come out with a list of sails. The man was very embarrassed, but I think he learned incredibly much that day. That lesson, in fact, I think the whole attendance was worth it. In all those families where there's someone who decides, whether it's over their daughters, their sons or their wives, there's someone who really needs that reproof. For me, that correction is very much worth it. People believe that the election is a serious thing. I have been a voter, as we in the Left in Oslo do, in front of the elections, stood in front of the polling room for hours and distributed voting lists. Then I see people who decorate themselves, people who are exact about having the children to teach the children what this is, and I hear the parents' lectures to children all the way down to infancy that now we're going to vote, and that's important. I think very many of these experiences around the polling room are part of giving the celebration, but also the seriousness that a democracy should actually be, and I think it's worth taking care of. SV says you should do this to increase the turnout. The reason for wanting to increase the turnout is to increase the legitimacy of the elections in the people. There is no reason to increase the turnout for anything else. Democracy's legitimacy depends on electoral participation. That is why we want a strong democracy, a high turnout. My problem with introducing this is that it helps to reduce the legitimacy of democracy, because it threatens democracy in very fundamental areas. So sail if you might increase the turnout, you're not increasing the legitimacy of democracy. That's why I think it's going to be an argument that bites its tail. So it's been used as an argument that we use our bank online. We trust that we can make important economic transactions online, and then we must also be able to rely on transferring our voices online. I think it is important to admit that for us in this Chamber, our democracy, political participation and political parties are very important – that is our very life. But we also have to admit that for very many citizens, politics is completely irrelevant. It is allowed to be citizens of Norway and it seems that our democracy is not important, that voting is not important, that it actually affects democracy does not mean anything in their lives. It's a very honest thing. I think you find a lot more people who think democracy is irrelevant than those who think their account is irrelevant. That means that when you're sitting late at night at a pub in Oslo, you'll find considerably more people who don't think the electoral code is the most important thing they have in their wallet, but the code of their bank account they'll protect incredibly much more. That's why it can't be completely compared, and I think it's very easy in such a system to find someone who doesn't want to use his vote, and who doesn't want to have any concerns about others using it on their behalf. Then it opens up other solutions. And then I have to say that I support the Christian People's Party very much on something that wonders when you're doing political work: how one with small sums can make incredible changes, while enormous sums can be spent on something that we're not very committed to even getting to. That is what I think we can at least notice in this matter. It is an enormous price to pay for an effort of such little enthusiasm in the Norwegian Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e417	This matter concerns the right to vote outside the polling room. If voting outside the polls, Professor Eivind Smith, who is a specialist in public law, has said that it violates the principle of secret elections. The fact that one can give one’s voice unimpaired by physical surroundings, that it is voted in groups almost as part of a family meeting means that one moves the election act home or to an uncontrolled environment. That is to say, the OECD's principles for the electoral act to vote alone, to act as a private act, and that voting is to be unexposed to others, are broken if there is one other person present. It is simply the concept or idea that is problematic, not if this is technically feasible. We probably have the feeling that we should be able to solve for that. We do our banking business very easily that way, but you don't have the control that the right person is voting. That is why it should be noted that even the trial system itself, if applied to some groups, will, for those groups that violate the secret voting principle, be – albeit on a small scale – a breach of Norway’s international obligations to ensure that all citizens have the right to secret elections. So the testing scheme already runs counter to the principle of free and independent choice and should therefore not be carried out as a testing scheme for that reason. And of course, it's an extra $90 million point. kr may be used as an alternative, inter alia. to finance new guarantees of dignity or other good purposes which we otherwise discuss in this Chamber. I also want to pay attention to another side that has not been promoted that much. After serving in a very large number of elections as chairman of the electoral panel in Oslo, I have the practical experience that it is a reality that some people present themselves at the election in strong drug abuse. Then the vote will be received with an indication of it. Then it will be up to the Central Electoral Board to reject or approve these votes. It's not so much that there's a large number, or that it's important to reject these voices, but just the certainty that you're going to meet up, I think people get sharp in a day that's important for democracy, and that you also make sure that people are aware that it's an important act for themselves and for the community they're in when they vote. So I've also noticed that the majority of the committee doesn't really realize that this is going to be the main rule either. I also took note of the presentation made by the case-filer, and not least the representative Syversen, who speaks much better at this point and expresses much better opinions than the programme he is bound by, but it can be corrected on later occasions. But I think we can sum up the debate so far that this will never be the general rule in elections in Norway, and then it's just as good to stop the trial. Finally, I would say that those who believe that such cosmetic measures as this should bring up the turnout should think well about. One might ask, what is the reason for lower turnout? The reason for this is that people are less involved in politics. It is due to different and deeper circumstances than exactly which technical arrangements are chosen for each choice. It may have something to do with the view of politicians. It may also be that there are no clear alternatives. The most important common policy work can contribute to, is to make policies more engaging and to what is termed a ‘high-intensity product’ in industry, where today there are signs that people do not think it is so important. There is nothing to compensate for, by means of fictitious measures such as electronic home voice, Flax block or other things of a worse nature, namely voting obligations, which have also been mentioned by some people. It's actually so that sitting at home can also be a thoughtful action. Presenting itself to elections or at the elections is still an important celebration of the electoral act that we should not allow.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e431	Let me first join the case-rapporteur Ola Borten Moe's speech in its entirety. He had a very good article on this matter. I will also join very much of what has been said in the debate. There are several times fixed both in the proposal and not least in the vote, and from all parties, let me stress that free and secret elections are part of the foundations of our democracy, and that is a foundation for which we are to protect. It is also enshrined in the electoral law. It emphasises the need to ‘ensure citizens to be able to choose their representatives in free, direct and secret elections to the Grand Duchy, county councils and local councils’. That's why I just have to say that I'm not just skeptical in the first place, but I actually disagree with the introduction of electronic voting from the PC, well to notice from home. That doesn't mean you can't put electronic voting in a polling room. That's how it works. We're going to go that way, we all know that. Technology is evolving, and that's what it's going to be. So I represent the same state as Trine Skei Grande. I represent a state where there are environments, sometimes large environments, where women can be guided to an even greater degree than today by their husbands and their brothers in party selection, if we allow them to vote from home on a PC, i.e. outside the voting room at all. I noticed the story of the representative Skei Grande. I also often stand as a list bearer and have been in voice control in different parts of Oslo, and we know this very well, all of us. I think what Skei Grande says about getting into an election room and getting told that no, your wife is an independent individual, she votes independently of you, that's her election card, she's going to go into the closed herself, and she's going to have her own ballot, is educative and mind-provoking in herself. However, when I am in the majority position, this is because the Stortinget has previously joined the Municipal Ministry's wish for a probationary system with electronic voting in 2011. In addition, I would like to point out that the majority in the form of a comment does not in any way subscribe to a possible vision – I think that is what the vote says – that everyone should have the opportunity to vote electronically outside the polling room at the 2017 big shot. I believe that it will also be at the expense of the principle of free and secret elections. As far as I know, and fortunately, there are now no urban areas in Oslo that are to be included in this voting procedure outside the polling room. I think that would be a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e446	As one of the three proposers, I have spent quite a lot of time on this matter after it became known that an electronic vote would be held in the 2011 elections. There is no one who disagrees that there could be electronic voting – as Marit Nybakk was about – it is a natural development. But voting from home is what has made this case difficult. I read the project team's work, a very enthusiastic, technological presentation of how to make it easy to vote now. It was a long setting on the technical solutions, how to ensure this, how to ensure data security. There was hardly one line on how the principle of free and secret elections should be respected. There is nothing left in that setting. It also says that the enthusiastic working group saw that if this went well, there would be an electronic home voice at the roll call in 2017. So there's nothing that's taken out of the air. Then I would like to draw attention to a mistake in our proposal, because several have referred to the OECD Election Manual. So this is the OSCE election manual. I have to put on my own coat that it has not been fixed before. But, of course, it is the OSCE that conducts election observations. I myself am part of the OSCE delegation here in Stortinget, and I would like to have the Mayor's reply on how she believes international election observers in Norway – because there have been some of them in recent years – to assess the possibility of controlling voting in the ten test municipalities. It'll be very exciting to see. After all, the OSCE itself wrote: «Voting by secret ballot requires that votes mark their ballots alone, in the privacy of a secure voting boat.» It is a longer quotation that is contained in the proposal. So there is no way to control this, and so the possibility of evaluation is reduced. So to the claim that this can take care of itself, because it's possible to change the x number of times before going to the polling room. I think that is also special – that the department adds that here you should be able to vote almost from day to day, before you go to the polling room and give your final vote. What kind of solemnity is there going to be around that tuning? We also know – as a representative from Drammen, I think we have many of the same experiences as they do in Oslo – that there are no questions about who comes to the polling room to convert their vote. There are questions about whether someone is allowed to go to the polling room and convert their vote. It may be that someone is forced to vote on something they don't want or are engaged in voting for, nor will they be allowed to leave home on the day of the election. Then we've really created an electoral system that's scary. I also think that the Minister of State should respond to how she will interpret it that a so-called unanimous increase is skeptical of the scheme, and a large minority oppose this scheme. Is it a good thing that we are going into an electoral year where there is disagreement about the electoral system in Norway and where there is disagreement about how voting is going to take place? I have to say that if I had been a municipal minister and knew that there was a large minority in the Stortinget, a total mass, which disagrees with the Government in how the election and how the electoral system should be in Norway, I would have been concerned. There's no lucky entry angle to a choice. If you then take the last claim that Hallgeir Langeland made, which didn't characterize itself as some kind of data bank -- he might know that I'm a little bit more -- it's because this will meet with enthusiasm in the youth. In 2007, the municipality of Buskerud conducted electronic voting at the school elections. The Buskerud school selection was carried out in the manner in which this choice is to be implemented. The students received PIN codes, and they were supposed to vote from home. That year, the polling attendance in Buskerud was under 10 p.m. My son himself was one of the students who went to the Drammen high school then. I said, "Why did it get so low?" No, they forgot, they messed up the PIN code, and there was no order in it. So the only experience I know from Norway shows that the vote fell by approx. 80 pst. for ordinary school choice. So I hope that the municipal minister has noticed the broad scepticism that is in the Storting, and uses a mountain sweat rule that says it's not too late to turn, saves 90 million. kr and remove this pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e468	The background to this case is that in 2004 Erna Solberg set down a selection led by Elector Bernt Aardal to assess electronic voice. The report submitted by the group recommended testing by electronic means. The report was followed up in the budget for 2008, in the local democracy report and in the municipal proposal for 2009 and for 2010, and all the time with a broad consensus in the Stortinget. The budget for the project applies not only to the attempt at electronic choice, but also to the acquisition and testing of a completely new and completely optional administrative data system in the same municipalities. The project shall also plan for the possible introduction of the electoral system in the longer term. First, it is important to stress that no political decision has been taken on the future of electronic voice delivery via the Internet in Norway since 2011. The test to be carried out shall be carefully evaluated, and it is obvious that all modifications to the selection system beyond testing must be approved by the Size Panel. Experience gained during the pilot phase of electronic voice delivery shall be submitted to the Stortinget, so that in the wider debate one will have a evidence-based basis for discussion and decision. The Document 8 proposal claims that voice delivery in uncontrolled environments follows the principle of free and secret choice. It'll be a dream. The democratic requirement of secrecy – that no one should know with certainty what you have to say – is taken care of by the ability to repent and shake several times. The right of withdrawal will also seriously undermine the possibility of buying and selling voices. I would also believe that if one member of the family has such an influence on another member of the family that one can control with the possibilities that lie here, the person will have the possibility to control what that member of the family will hear, including with the current system. There is a lack of international clarity as to what is required for confidentiality. Thus, exposure to uncontrolled environments is not unambiguously contrary to international law. The Venezia Commission, for example, assessed the relationship between Internet voice delivery and the requirement of the European Convention on Human Rights and concluded that it complies. The OSCE Election Observer Guide, to which the proposers refer, applies to traditional choices of paper in the selection room. It does not accept the undo operation in the e-choice system and cannot be used without it. In a social pressure situation, it is possible for a selector who has no voice in line with its over-indicator to change his electronic voice later on. In a forced situation, the selector has the same ability to smoke freely and secretly in the selection room as today. In practice, guaranteeing total confidentiality would also be impossible in controlled environments. The case always boils down to an assessment of what is good enough, and the relationship with international law and human rights have been assessed. There is a requirement for free selection that the selection action is available to the most extent possible. In addition to the requirement of secrecy, the requirement of access is also very important, and we have a duty to ensure that both requirements are met. That being said, I am meek of the criticism of the so-called privatisation of the electoral campaign. We should be very careful about establishing a system that in any way trivialises democratic elections. We don't know enough about how such a system will affect its choices over time. Therefore, it is important not to make changes too quickly. We perform voice testing in uncontrolled environments on a precautionary basis. Technological developments in society will continue to press for change. It also applies in the electoral field. I record that many people speak quite bastantly about the future of electronic voice delivery. It's hard to predict futures. A lot of people in the past have also spoken bastantly about evolution, whether it's crazy color television or the Internet, which was said to be a very fast death, but which has proven to be something completely different. What this attempt will lead to over time is certainly no one to know today – a government council either. Internet resolution is required to be safely implemented. This requires huge resources. Experience from abroad shows that electronic voice transmission, which is introduced without central control, can often go wrong. There are sometimes suggestions from both voters and politicians to introduce Internet smooching to fight the decline in electoral smooching. There is no popular demand today for Internet search, but what will happen in 5, 10 and 15 years in this area, we know too little about today. This is precisely why it is important for us to be able to carry out trials in small scale and in controlled forms, and we believe that we can also support the requirements that we must and should have in order for the choice to be secret. Particular attention has been paid to the fact that the e-valuation solution should be verifiable, transparent and safe. The solution is verifiable when there can be mathematical proof that the voice is left unchanged from the selector until it is counted, and that all the voices are counted. Each chooser gets a receipt code that contains a proof that the voice has been received unchanged. Open source is also used, and there is a lot of emphasis on proving that it is the same source that is being published, which is being run in the experiment. The system shall be tested thoroughly. There have so far been four successful attempts with small Internet listening. The additional two shall be carried out during the fall. It has been implemented with a development version of the system that does not have all the security mechanisms in place so far. In the winter of 2011, an additional four advisory public services will be carried out, which will be implemented with the complete system to be used in the 2011 municipal government and county election experiment. I agree that there are challenges, both technical and social, related to Internet choices. It's quite natural to meet an experiment like this with scepticism, but it's easier to draw conclusions based on real experience. That'll get us in 2011. What will happen in the future when it comes to Internet choices will have to be discussed after the experience has been gained after the evaluation has been carried out. Then Stortinget will discuss the road further. Based on what is mentioned above, and the thorough work done in the preliminary drafts, the government has assessed that the democratic benefits of trying out electronic voice giving are greater than the disadvantages, and has therefore agreed to carry out the trial in 2011. I'm glad a multiple supports it. Then we have to get back to what's going on, whether this is going to be a system to try on a wider scale, or whether to put it off for a while. I believe, however, that once in the future, electronic voice giving will be everyday in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e510	It opens for line chord shifts. The first replicator is Per-Kristian Foss. [[State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete went here and sat down at the Council of State.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e515	President, at least I'm ready for a line. If the Council of State is, too, it would be nice!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e523	Yes, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e528	First, let me say the following: The fact that a former State Council has gone in to reduce a sample — the Solberg Council — is not, of course, a political clearance of the sample's conclusion until it is available. The political clearance of this attempt has taken place during this government, and it must take full responsibility for it. I have three questions for the Council of State. Does she feel that she has a real and enthusiastic majority behind her in the Bighold for the trial? Second, does she feel that the vision expressed in the proposition is shared by anyone in the Storting? And then I'm not asking about a majority, but someone. In that case, it's interesting to know who, because they haven't spoken in the debate. And as a third question, in one area the Council of State is already familiar with: Is it the Department of Law that has made the legal assessment of the relationship with Conventions and the Constitution in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e535	When it applies to the background that this matter came up, I did okay for it. It is not unusual when you present a matter in the Storting, that one does something for the background of the matter and what time it has been presented to the Storing before. That's what I did. There is no enthusiastic plurality to introduce electronic voice in Norway. I don't know, but I don't think I can say that it's an enthusiastic government when it comes to implementing electronic calculus in Norway in the event of a big shot. The government has no position for this. The government and the majority in Stortinget have only taken a stand on whether or not to make a limited attempt at the 2011 elections, and have said that it should. Then you're going to evaluate it and evaluate what's going to happen. I register strong scepticism to carry it on afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e542	Now, the Council of State uses the usual Council of State technique, that is to say, to respond to something other than what was asked. That's why I repeat the question: Does the Council of State feel that she has a real and enthusiastic majority behind her in the Grand Council for the trial – not to introduce, as she replied to, but to the trial? So was the last question that she forgot: is it the Law Department that has made the legal assessment on which the Council of State is based in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e554	There is a number in this room that says that we should make electronic choices as a test in ten municipalities in 2011. The degree of enthusiasm that has been in the debate today, I think, is linked to the perception of electronic voice giving as a fixed arrangement in Norway in the future. If there wasn't a multiple for the experiment, I guess we wouldn't have had a multiple in this room either. So the experiment has a multiple behind it. The enthusiasm for what's going to happen after the experiment, I'm going to record that something might be muffled, to say it in a nice way. When it comes to the legal review, he's done by my department, by lawyers in the Department of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e561	Per-Kristian Foss – to line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e565	It is unrestricted access to lines under the rules of procedure applicable to this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e570	I fully understand that. That is why Per-Kristian Foss has the floor. The President wants to make Stortinget aware that the technical solution that we now have on the speaker's chair makes it difficult for us to put in time when a representative asks for the word unannounced. Therefore, the President is asking for an understanding that there is still 1 minute speaking time to reply and 1 minute to reply. - Per-Cristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e575	Thank you. What is the reason, Councillor, that the Law Department has not been requested? So here are prominent lawyers who express their doubts about whether this is in line with the Constitution. I had actually expected that a party which traditionally appears as constitutional caution, not to say constitutional conservative – something I seem to have emboldened the entire representative Borten Moe’s posts – had seen a doubt in relation to the Constitution as so important that they had asked the top legal expert the government to advise itself, namely the Law Department. I remember a number of quotes from the Council of State of Navarsete's performance in the Stortinget and in the Stortingen hearings, where she just pointed out that it is the Law Department that is the government's leading counsellor on legal issues. Why, then, not in this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e582	When it comes to the question of what contact has been made between the department in my department and the law department, I will not guarantee that it has not been contacted. That's not what's been important to me. It is that we have the authority in the election law to try, that the attempt follows the guidelines, that the election law is based on international obligations, and that it has been reviewed in a way that I, as the Council of State, believe is a cover-up to be able to file a case for the Parliament that is defended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e587	The President repeats that the technical solution we now have in Stortinget makes it difficult for us to put in time if a replicator takes a line in this round in addition to the reported line. The President will try to control it, but the speaking time is still 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e590	First, I would like to point out that the importance of the Law Department goes up and down slightly in relation to what different issues we are dealing with, both for one and for the other. It could also be worth noting. I am concerned about the evaluation, because the question here is: Is it a purely technical evaluation, or is it also necessary to associate with professionals in choice and electoral law, and I mean both legal and state law competence? With the clear punishment that the Minister of Research now had to give to his colleagues in order to use results a little at his own discretion, it is also possible to find out how this evaluation has been put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e597	When it comes to the technical part, it's the Norwegian Veritas who's going to take care of him. They're already inside, because it's about following that project all the way out. When it comes to the democratic part, it also requires professional expertise to follow it. It is not decided who will be given that assignment, but it will be decided in good time before the election is held, because it is of course about following the preparations, implementing the election and evaluating the democratic side of it. Then it is presented as if the Council of State is the leading champion of the introduction of electronic elections in Norway. I am a person who has great faith in technology, but I also want to reserve the right to both evaluate the result and evaluate what is coming, before I, as the government councillor and the election system administrator, advise the Storting that this should be passed on on to a larger scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e606	Oslo has said no. The reason why I think that is that in the Municipality of Oslo there are some challenges to some cultures where this does not actually lead to as free elections as you would have liked. I noticed that the council had not heard so much about what we have said, and read out what she had been told to read up. That's why I want to ask about my story from the Old Town: the reproof that was made in the polling room, does it impress the Council of State? The council says that the pressure could have been exerted in other ways as well. Yes, but this was actually a correction. That correction could not have been otherwise performed. Do such corrections have no value in a democracy — does the Council of State see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e613	Of course they have. I believe that both the representative Skei Grande and I know that the election lists have been filled before one goes to the polling room, both in different environments and in different families. Nor do I believe that neither those in the polling room nor we can always eliminate them, even if we wish. It is just one of the items that needs to be looked at. We run a limited test in 10 municipalities. There is a great deal of commitment in the ten municipalities that should be involved in the experiment. It's important to look closely at when we're going to evaluate how this works and what the result is. Like the representative, Skei Grande, I'm very busy making choices secret. I believe that both government and growth in the debate that comes after the experiment should discuss it carefully. Then make such episodes as they're told here, impressions. They're important to take with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e620	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e623	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate, which I believe has raised many interesting and important principal positions. And then I have some comments, which I want to make in conclusion. First of all, I think it's right to stress that the mass mass here is not actively stopping a experiment. It is also the case that the government has the full possibility of carrying out trials with reference to experimental legislation. There is no doubt about it; it is the government's prerogative. That should still be the case. It is also the case that before this becomes a permanent arrangement, where appropriate, it must be subject to a much wider, more precise and thorough examination in this Chamber than has been the case in relation to the examination by the Committee of this proposal by some Right-wing Representatives. So there are some things that I think belong at the end of the debate – first of all, the goal of increasing participation. Many of us have worked a lot on this attempt. For our part, we've been to Sweden and we've visited a United Nations organization that controls with elections – I don't remember what it's called on the fly. They strongly stress that there is no empirical evidence that electronic elections increase the turnout. Nor is there any empirical evidence that they are lowering the turnout. So there's no empirical evidence that they're increasing it. So the next question, as I think we should at least ask ourselves – and it is in the extension of Ulf Erik Knudsen's posts: is it the right strategy to increase the commitment, legitimacy and the rise in Norwegian democracy to lower the threshold to participate, to make it easier to participate, either by lowering the age of voting or by making it easier to come? For my part, I don't think so. I am very pleased with the clarification made by the Council of Ministers of Navarsete, with reference to the committee's position. Then I would just like to refer briefly to two sentences that are good: ‘The Committee attaches great importance to the fact that the election action shall involve personal and public representation in the capacity of the election venues. Choices of elected representatives must have a tribute to them; the election actions of citizens must be clearly distinguished and marked from, for example, daily private Internet searches and transactions in the home and in the workplace.’ So it's a total accumulation and a total committee that joins. It also means that I believe that democratic elections are something other than, for example. banking or other things that belong to the sphere of privacy. Then there are many people who say that in the future we will have electoral arrangements that are electronic, albeit in the polling room, i.e. in controlled forms. I'm not going to go into predicting that, but I want to put some thoughts around it as well. First of all, there's a big difference between voting in the bank and voting in a polling room. If you vote in the bank, it's always some kind of withdrawal period. You get a receipt, you can check the bank account for how this has actually gone and has been disabled in practice. It will be alarming if this becomes possible in case of a shopping or local elections, because it simply means that there is a database that has registered what you voted as a person. Do we think that's all right? How can we be sure that that database will not be hacked and the results released to the public? Otherwise, if those tracks are not stored, it simply means that it is impossible to verify. If there is then a conflict about the election result, and you run a countdown and get a different result from what you initially got, there's really reason to lift the alarm tab and wonder what happened when you made this choice. Data security is very important – yes, well – but we also know that you have managed to hack the Pentagon, you have managed to hack banks. Isn't it naive to think that it would be completely impossible to hack the computer system of a municipality that makes local elections in Norway? When it comes to availability, I think about the availability of Norwegian elections today. A long period prior to the actual election date is possible to give prior voting and it is also possible to appear in the polling room over an increasingly large period of time. New rules are in place for now. Therefore, there is nothing to suggest that accessibility, i.e. the ability to vote, is poor in Norway. Then I notice that in the debate and in the change of words that has taken place, the Council of State has placed great emphasis on the objections raised by the Committee and the Stortinget. I think that's very good. I think it is important that this should be included in the further debate. I also think it is important that those who have worked on this in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, and who are now listening, take note both of the seriousness and humility of the objections that come from this pulpit, from this Chamber, because that is from here one has to get the final approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e653	I would first like to allow myself to say that I notice a certain contrast between the posts of the Central Party Council and the post of the Judge-Rapporteur of the Central Party. I find that interesting. There has been a good debate and many good speeches, and briefly I think one might say that there has been a reflected scepticism in almost all the posts that have been held from this pulpit. And to clarify the enthusiasm question for the Council of State, it's not an enthusiasm to trace in this room for this experiment, either, if you read the comments from the committee. In general, trials often have an important role to play in the development of new systems and are used to see how to develop the future. It is quite clear after this discussion in this Chamber and after the media releases we have also seen in advance of this debate that it is quite unlikely that this will be a scheme that will represent the electoral system of the future. So it's a challenge that one in this way actually tells the municipalities that are now going to run through these trials, that the work you're doing in this, the money spent on this, is really wasted, because the Storting is basically so negative as to continue such a system that it almost independently of the outcome of this evaluation, will hardly be a bill that comes through that will accept these new ways of doing it. And it's not about being backward or not being modern or not believing in ICT and the Internet as future solutions, but it's about taking democracy seriously -- the basic democratic principles that everyone in this room is very concerned about, and that everyone in the committee's position has stressed the importance of keeping secret and free elections. In that picture, I think one of the statements the Council of State made is remarkable, because as far as I got along, that if the family influence was so strong that you could be affected by voting at home in the living room, the family impact would be equally strong under today's electoral system. I directly disagree with that. We got an example from the representative Skei Grande, which shows that this is not the case. There's clearly a big difference between sitting in the family council or with family and friends, or, as someone in my group has pointed out, at a party with some friends and being subjected to the pressure that's seen from the youth side, and going to the polling room, getting guidance from the voters in the polling room who observe that this is happening in the right way. There is a significant difference, so great that I became somewhat concerned when the Council of State stated that the possibilities of influence within today's system should be almost as great as in a system of home-sponsored. I hope the Council of State said that in case of a mistake. I also want to point out what Jusprofessor Eivind Smith writes in his investigation, namely that this can help to create a kind of market for the purchase and sale of votes. And then there's a lot of people who don't think it's a good objection. But most of us remember a rather serious situation in the drama, which the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen himself was in, and if I don't remember completely wrong, the price of a vote was estimated to be a kebab. It shows that it is right when others from this pulpit have said that it is not all who take democracy as seriously as those who are active participants in this democracy. We can't help to facilitate systems that open up to destroy completely fundamental aspects of the democracy we're so proud of. It will simply help to beat the legs of democracy, and that is not good. Then we can also imagine some challenges after this election attempt has been carried out, provided that Professor Smith is right, not the Ministry's lawyers. If Smith is right, we will be able to experience fundamental complaints about the implementation of the election, and if the conclusion then is that the attempt is also contrary to Norwegian law, by which I would like to see the government's solution to that question. So that's Professor Smith's conclusion, as I read it anyway. It may also be interesting to read the reports from foreign election observers, who will also be in Norway at that time. I think I have a fairly good overview of what Norwegian election observers would comment on if we were to observe this. So we're in the rather strange situation that there's a relatively obvious majority in this room that basically thinks that this attempted $90 million. kr is unnecessary. But as the representative Nybakk said, since we've joined it before, we're still going to do it. I don't think that's a good argument. You're allowed to change your mind. The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen himself explained his awakening in this case and the awakening of the Advance Party in this case, and so there are opportunities for others in a few minutes now to have the same experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e670	A little inspired by the previous speaker and with experience from the polling room, I can also say to Stortinget's information that even such a practical thing as the voice-off is located in relation to the crew-off crosses is significant. If it's the case that the audience, after they've got a ballot, goes to the polls before they vote, there's a lot of people who have expectations of joining the ballot box. Election rooms which are designed to be checked in the number of persons are given a ballot and then closed into an open voice channel alone where it is physically not available to other family members or friends or who it may be, give a greater unbundling. When you see that only this difference in the placement of voice checks is important, you can think of the many other contexts in which you can now say that you can vote, and where the common denominator is that you see that people are going to vote outside the polling room. I think this has been a very interesting debate because it has also happened quite cautiously that those who formally support the government, and who want to give money to this, have not, of course, the very idea. On a large scale, the entire committee has rejected it, and therefore it is quite incomprehensible that the Storting is not able to manage to say that this is a bad idea – we are now stopping it before we spend more money. On the contrary, it has been stressed that this is a test project, so it is not so dangerous. But there is an incredibly bad policy that has been implemented in the country with small-scale pilot projects, which have received good evaluations, because it is often in the order, and then you have put it into life on a large scale, and then you repent after a while. I also think it is striking that the representative Nybakk says that the reason why the matter is here is that the department has asked for a probationary system. It's almost to not disappoint the department that we have to follow up here in the Storting. It fundamentally violates what I think we should have a popular assembly to do. It's not a project under a department that's going to have the visions, that's what we politicians are going to have. I also noticed that it was the same reason from the Council of State, that the caravan was out and going, and it was almost impossible to stop. Besides, it was just a little caravan, so it could be stopped. But that's when I ask, what do you have elected people for? It's also a little bit related to what we're basically dealing with: what does it take to make people more involved in politics? Well, it might be that we sometimes act less bureaucratic and are able to stop bureaucracy. I would like to ask if it is such that the Council of State considers itself to be the bureaucrat's representative in Stortinget, rather than the representative of Stortingen in the bureaucracy. The interesting thing is that this is a system that has very poor prospects of ever being implemented on a large scale. So we simply have the option of choosing – today or during the budgetary procedure when money is to be allocated to this – to stop this and save the administration, the bureaucracy, the department of precious labour and the taxpayers for 90 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e681	I wasn't prepared for it to be necessary to talk twice in this debate, but I think the development is such that it is necessary to do so. I refer so far first to what I said in my first speech about the background and the principles that we have taken the position that we will implement this trial system. They're very clear, of course, all the concerns we have about the implementation of secret elections, as well as the provisions of the law. We know that. There are many of the speakers here that have referred to Eivind Smith. I have no reason in itself to question his judgements in this way, but I also think that it goes a little far – that's why I take the word – when every thought of trying a new technology for voting purposes is to be characterised as it becomes part of the speakers. That's what I want to say. So this is a testing scheme that has been in preparation for a long time. It is true that this government must, of course, take responsibility for the proposal that is now in place, as Foss said in his reply to the Council of State – I agree with that. But there's been a thread all the way back to the Bondevik government, where you've been thinking about this, and where you've been saying you'd like to try this. And I think we should give this a chance. That's what this is really about. So we'll see what comes out of this, and then we'll do a sober and correct assessment on that basis. When we talk about visions, which others have been involved in, I think it's important to have a perspective in front of us, considering what ICT is going to mean for social development. And that we should be in the forefront of the use of this technology in the development of democracy, I also believe is a vision. Within the limited framework set by this experiment, I believe that we are safe within the proper framework. So I just want to say short -- because it's a little bit on the side, but when I have the chance from the Greatness Chair, I'm doing it right now -- something about the availability of elections. I would like to say to the Council of State and to the others who are in charge of these things that, in general, when it comes to prior consultation – i.e. prior consultation within the arrangements we have today, one should really strive to make the system as efficient and accessible as possible. After we had to add postal voices, for good reasons, that arrangement has fallen back very practically for the voters. You should also look at that very carefully, because it's a system that very many people have the opportunity to use, if it's more accessible than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e694	It's expressed skepticism from all of the batches. Among other things, it was done by the leader of the committee. So I'm going to say that from SV's side, we're going to set 100 pst. behind the government and the Council of State Navarsete in this matter. It's not every day they hear it from me, but that's what they belong to today. I think it's very strange that some parties that are occupied with local democracy and self-government talk very negatively about trying something new. In fact, there are ten municipalities in which the majority of the parties go in and ask to be part of a trial, and thus some say – Right, the Progress Party and the Left specifically: No, we should not listen to those municipalities, we should not listen to them – we should overrun them, they should not try! It seemed very strange to me, not least that the Left is on such a race and does not take into account local local government. So I'm going to say it's not surprising that Greece, Tetzschner and Right go to the contrary. They were for under a hundred years ago also against the women getting voting rights, so the Right doesn't exactly have a good story to show when it comes to modernity. Even though they are using the term "modern," it is not what characterizes the history of the Right in terms of developing democracy. There is one element that has not been presented, namely the leadership of the government party plus the Christian People's Party to facilitate the participation of others, namely that we ask the municipal minister to extend the polls to higher education institutions and universities, so that students can vote more easily. We are now conducting an experiment that I think is exciting, and as I see, both local politicians and young people are engaged in my home municipality, Sandnes, and lead to the development of democracy and the legitimacy of democracy. I thought that was very good. Therefore, it is very exciting to see what this attempt leads to – whether it actually leads us to continue it or to develop it, or whether we say no. My starting point and SV's starting point is what the Bible says, "Try everything and hold on to good."
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e707	The reason I took the floor again was the representative Tetzschner, who said that the caravan was out and went and could not be stopped. I would like to distance myself from the way this experiment is done. This is initially politically initiated by Tetzschner's own party trap, but of course it was fully submitted under the responsibility of this government. There have been many discussions about it – if we were to make this attempt, or if the counter-statements were so big that one should leave it alone. This has been a thorough discussion on many points. As I said in my speech, the government believes that the democratic benefits are greater than the disadvantages. There are disadvantages, and it has not been concealed by the Council of State in its article earlier today. Over 3.5 million people have voting rights in Norwegian elections. Everyone should have equal access to this right. An important reason why we want to perform electronic voting attempts is that we want to increase access to the choice of the selector. This is especially true for voters with different disabilities. For some, getting to the selection room without help may be a problem. We would like to see if electronic voice giving will allow more disabled people to voice without assistance, preferably via their computer equipment. The solutions to be selected should be user-friendly and accessible to all users. The aim is to meet universal design guidelines and standards. We have partners in this work, different user groups that test and provide feedback. Of course, they are engaged test municipalities, where both the Labour Party, Right, the Center Party, the Progress Party and SV have the spokesperson. Cooperation Forums of the Organisations of Disabled Persons – SAFO – The Delta Centre, the Blind Alliance, Senior Networks, Standard Norway and the FFO are active in the project to help us facilitate this, so that we can also see if this gives better access to those who may have problems getting to a selection room and getting a hearing. Secret elections and the demand for secret elections have been essential in the debate here today, and it should be on the basis of democratic rights that are linked to making their choices secret. In the attempt there is a right of withdrawal for the selector, so that the person who smokes electronically can hear that so many times the voters want to do so. An electronic voice will always override a paper resolution given in an optional locale. We have stressed that there should be a safe and reliable technical solution so that a connection between the selector and the voice that has been given cannot be detected. It shall be a good identification and authentication solution, e-ID, based on a high level of security. Electronic calcination shall only be performed by pre-sampling, not on the selection gene, and such shall be a supplement to calcination in the selection room. I think these elements will at least be involved in reducing the possibilities that are too unduly affected, and it won't be possible for those who are trying to buy a voice, to know whether the voice that is given is in line with what a believer's host is. In this case, all data access must be fully controlled throughout the lead-out period. There are probably not so many cases where one person has full control over another during that period. But it's an element that we're going to take very seriously. There is an element that must be heavy within the evaluation to perform after the test. Choices should be secret, options should be able to do without being unduly affected by others. Therefore, a good evaluation is absolutely necessary, but also necessary. Therefore, we should go wide and challenge the research environment to make the good suggestions. We are now in the process of making this evaluation the best possible. There should be a competition to get the best evaluation, so that we get answers to the most possible of the questions that we want to elucidate through the experiment. This is precisely why the experiment is being carried out. It is to highlight the issues that we want to answer, and it is also an attempt at a new administrative system for the implementation of choices. That's what it takes. Today's system is out of date. We need an electronic administrative system designed at the same time as the experiment. I just want to point out that from my side is the requirement for secret and correct resolution in the case of selection, which is absolutely necessary to ensure trust. This means that if real testing by electronic roasting is weakened or rocked by trust in correct implementation, further testing is completely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e726	We record that the representative Anders Anundsen is asking for a line. We consider it so that although there is an open debate, it is after the first article from the Council of State that we have opened up lines. After the second article, there are no lines. The representative Anundsen may, however, register on the list of speakers for a normal post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e731	I could probably take this post as a reply to the Council of State, but I'll give her better time to respond. The starting point for me to take the floor is the introduction to Ola Borten Moe, which I think was good, and which opened up some of the dilemmas and the technological challenges of voting. The problem with electronic voting in polling rooms is to be able to check that there are correct numbers, and that one is technologically skeptical about connecting the voice to the voter. What I think is a question the Council of State has to bring with it. What is now being added to this test project must be assumed to link a voice to the one who has given the vote. If not, it will be impossible to undo. So it's pretty clear that in the system that it's now being added up to, you have to connect somewhere in the technological base what each one has voted. If it is not pointless to say that you can go and vote in the poll on the same day, and that the voice you have given online will be cancelled. It's a technological challenge, and I hope the Council of State will ask some questions to its bureaucracy about how security is linked to it. I hope it's included. Then – as I have some time left – I must also be allowed to attend the representative of Langeland on local democracy. The left is probably much more dramatic for local solutions than the control mechanisms used by SV to provide them. The reason why we don't think this should be emphasised here is that this is about the basic rules of the game of our democracy. If a unanimous local government had decided to test out and increase the voting age to 25 or to refuse women to vote, we wouldn't have done that either. This is like the basic rules in our society, and we must agree on that in this Parliament. It is Parliament's job to make the rules of the game for democracy. It is the challenge of local democracy to find good solutions locally to local challenges, but the framework for our democracy belongs here – it belongs in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e740	A good debate is coming to an end. With the exception of the representative of Langeland, few people in this room have been enthusiastic about the experiment. It also applies to the setting. It's worth noting a main objection to attempts in general, and it has to go on: what's the point? What is it that you're trying to achieve with an experiment? Experience must be gained in order to allow for an ex post full scale. But full scale is not a dangerous road, believes an obvious majority in Stortinget, with the exception of the representative Langeland. There are many objections. Professor Eivind Smith has been highlighted several times during the debate, both in relation to free, secret elections, and in relation to the purchase of votes. I think that the other posts of the rapporteur clearly show why this attempt should already be made at death. We have data security issues. We have not least questions about holding votes, which means that the individual's voice is also linked to the person who gave the vote. That's the only way you can come on election day and possibly change your mind. It also means that you have problems with keeping your voices. After being an election observer in the United States a short time ago and not least looking at the census that has taken place in Alaska, the importance of retaining the ballots is seen so that the voters' wishes are expressed by the candidates who are ultimately elected. There will be major problems associated with it, especially when you connect the countdown, storage and connection of votes and agree with data security. The totality here is a number of concerns. So to the desire for technological development. I have no problem with the fact that there is also a desire for technological development in this area. What you see individual countries have done is to introduce closed systems into the ballot box, so that you replace the vote form with an electronic ballot. Yeah, if there's technology you want on death and life, then that's an opportunity. It will then eliminate the uncertainties of this, but at the same time it does not mean a great future for technology in that way either, because the paper voting codes are at least as good. I don't see at all the problem of wanting to make it vote, the civic duty, more applicable, more open to people. This possibility exists today, both in relation to an extensive prioritisation and to the possibility of improved availability-related arrangements in the case of the polling facilities and different forms of return to the individual with disabilities — which were also addressed by the Council of State. The representative of Langeland almost rallied over the Right approach angle in relation to local democracy. Like the representative Skei Grande, it is easy to replicate in relation to SV's lack of understanding of local democracy, but to the Right, like the Left, actually democracy is the most important thing. It is a democratic tradition that we are sure that it is the individual who has actually delivered his voice, that there is no one who has voted for others, and that there is a free opportunity to deliver the voice without pressure. In fact, opening up opportunities where you are not alone in the polling room means that you have also opened up the possibility of greater pressure than what we have today, and at the seventh and last chance that there are others than the individual who vote. The representative Langeland is also drawing out the little rich history of the Right. The right has every reason to be proud. We had the first woman on the Stortinget. We've been in the front when it comes to a number of other things. We were also clear followers of a free and independent Germany, we did not doubt the GDR, for example. In conclusion, I believe that the Bible’s desire, “try everything and hold fast to what is good”, is well covered by other Bible quotations in terms of both prohibition and prohibition. For the Right, one thought is linked to our democracy, which means more than anything else, and that is precisely democracy itself – far beyond local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e761	I was challenged by the representative Skei Grande in terms of security, and will only do the right thing for the elements that are inside the security. The security of voice delivery via the Internet takes the government seriously and cooperates with the leading independent security environment at NTNU and the University of Bergen. The solution must be designed in such a way that it is not possible for hackers or viruses to influence the choice without detection. Selectors should be able to verify that their voices have been detected and that they have been saved correctly. Open source and full openness allow everyone to check the correct functioning of the security solution. When the option is above and counting, all the voices will be copied from the database to a physical storage medium. The voices are then moved into a new system consisting of machines that have never been connected to the Internet or to any other computer network. They are connected only to each other and cannot be accessed from outside. They shall be placed in a well-secured space, and good security procedures shall limit who has access to that space. To read the encrypted voice, a code key must be composed. It is divided into several parts for which several independent persons are to be responsible. These persons must physically meet to override their part of the code key, so that the total code key can be built up and the voices counted. It is a complex system, but it is a system built up to ensure that the voice that is given is the one that is numbered. That system also opens up so that one can voice again, and that it is the last recorded voice that is counted. To the extent that one of them smokes on paper, it'll also override the electronic voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e768	There shall be a brief note. In the change of line, I raised questions related to the evaluation. I think you can safely say that from today's debate it is being met with great interest. I am pleased that the Council of State pointed out and stressed that it is not just a technical evaluation; it is also a state-law evaluation, a democratic evaluation, so that the overall picture appears. Then, in conclusion, I have to say that it is impressive Bible knowledge that is manifested in this debate. It reminds me of a story where a newcomer would testify to his Bible vision. He said that there was particularly one word that had become very good for him, and it was this: «You will get a day at noon» – Alf Prøysen was not mentioned exactly! But let me end with that. I think the evaluation will show if it's a day to come for the attempt we're now agreeing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e795	I am simply putting forward with this a good attitude to a thoroughly debated case with known views from the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e800	In this case too, there are a lot of principles to discuss, but I think we are quite prepared to make this debate shorter than the previous one. I just want to adhere to a principle that I think everyone fully agrees with, and that is that we need to have a electoral system for local elections, county elections, and perhaps also for election elections – that is what we get back to – where the voters have a good influence, not only on which party, but also on which candidates they are going to vote. There is a great deal of consensus about this in Stortinget. I feel very sure of that. You have to find a balance between the parties and the voters, and I believe that we have a very good way in the electoral system we have for municipal elections today. The parties have their rights, actually now legalized, which they didn't have before. They have now been given the right to nominate through the last vote on the electoral system debate and the decisions we have taken. But then the influence of the voters on this is balanced as explained in the setting, namely the relationship to cumulation, the weight of cumulation and the ability of the voters to directly influence who is to be chosen, through cumulation. It's related to what it's explained, but which I only want to spend one minute on, which is what kind of rights the picker should have. So what's the system today, and I think it's the good system, from a positive point of view, is that you go in and add up to whoever you want, and don't cancel out the ones you want. That's kind of the whole point here. You have already tried this before, as seen from the setting. The government has followed up the decision of the Storting and has had a very serious review of this. The same result was then achieved once more as was done in the Electoral Commission, of which I was a member, namely that it would have no significant impact on the actual result of re-introducing ironing. In this case, if you did what the proposers think, you would reintroduce this negative element in the electorate's relation to those on the lists. Now it is the case that we who make choices, both in local elections and in decision-making, must of course be prepared to accept all the criticisms that the voters want to give us. There's no doubt about it. But it can be expressed in a constructive way through the system that we have today, and not in the very negative way that we do by perhaps reintroducing the deletion. Finally, it does not emerge from this position directly, but from the work of the Electoral Commission, I remember very clearly that when you were very keen to suggest that ironing should take place, it was also linked to two important experiences confirmed by the research in this second round, namely that there are three groups that are very vulnerable to deletion at municipal elections in Norway. One is women. The other is immigrant representatives. The third is what profiled politicians can call. They are particularly exposed to erasure. That must be tolerated in politics, especially the last. But that the other two groups are particularly vulnerable, and that it is documented, as it is now, I think the Storting should pay particular attention. There is in itself an independent reason not to reintroduce erasure in municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e815	We'll see if there'll be as much debate in this case as in the previous one. As far as I've noticed, there are already some speakers who have drawn themselves. As far as I can remember, the Progress Party alone was about going against the removal of the electorate's ability to cancel candidates. It is very good that we are no longer alone in this field. There is clearly a need for the batches to have a certain degree of predictability with regard to top candidates, that they have the necessary experience, assumption, wish, etc. on entering leading positions in local policy, and, of course, the ability to enter into these positions. But we have a system for that through pre-cumulations, or what it's really called, voice plug-ins. There you are well covered. We need to ask ourselves questions about today's system is democratic. Let's do an example. If we have a candidate A that has 200 positives and no deletions, and a candidate B that has 201 positives and 400 deletions, it's net relatively obvious that the voters prefer candidate A, and that candidate B is a very unpopular politician. But with today's system, candidate B would win that place, in the case that there was an exposed place you competed for. I find it difficult to see the real democratic nature of this. The argument to remove deletions was, among other things, limiting the possibility of organising corrective actions. It obviously didn't work. In fact, it may have worked against its purpose, as it shows, among other things. by the draft representative. We were earlier today, in the previous debate, inside my home town of Drammen. I can then give an example of how the new system works without ironing. There has been a solid coup that was carried out by a group with a background in the immigrant environment, and that has made a difference in that approximately. half of Drammen Arbeiderparti's urban governance has a background from these environments. Otherwise, it should be mentioned from this speaker that voters obviously want to withdraw their right to vote. This has been investigated, and it is a clear and clear signal in this area. Finally, I would like to refer to the other remarks. The Progress Party is here as one of the parties behind the Committee's recommendation, so we don't need to make any proposals. It is possible that I followed a little poorly during the statements made by the rapporteur and Martin Kolberg, but I did not notice that any of the said representatives made their own proposal. Maybe the president should have told me that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e832	Thanks, Knudsen! That's the President's register. Of course, these representatives have the opportunity to address their proposals at a later stage in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e835	Let me first commend SV for evading its governmentmates. It's not often that's happened in this period, and it's always nice that it happens. Must it continue significantly! The trials carried out in 2003 and beyond at the 2007 elections showed that the voters did not want to lose their right to cancel. The voters themselves believe that the ironing option is a good opportunity to express both positive and negative views according to candidates, when pre-cumulations are also introduced. Yes, the batches currently have a significant degree of predictability using pre-cumulation and voice additions. There are lots that go from zero to maybe ten and also fifteen pre-cumulated, and so you deprive the voters of almost all the influence on who is ultimately elected on a list. The important thing for the Right is to transfer more power to the voters, that voters will also be more able to express who they want to represent in a local government. The same can also be said in relation to bigpox, where we have wanted to increase the level of voicemailing. Some people have been negative about the possibility of deletion because it could mean that someone gets a personal correction, and you might be afraid of the negative focus that a large number of deletions will give. But if you are making choices, you must also bear to hear that you are not popular. There is no personal popularity study, but in fact an aptitude study conducted by the voters. If the voters want one person in front of another – and I think the example used by the representative Knudsen is good – then they must also be allowed to express themselves in that they actually end up being elected at the expense of the candidate with the most stripes. This is once again an attempt from the Right to expand the space of democracy and, to a greater extent, make it possible to get the people who the voters actually want to represent themselves into local governments and city councillors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e848	It's not often SV gets credited by Right, so it gets us. But we are very clear behind the red-green government and hope that the right-hand side will soon come up with an alternative that challenges us on politics. But I think we should wait a while for that. In 1995 we had this system, and then I was in the headquarters of the City Council in Stavanger Municipality. There was an enormous commitment out there among people, not least women, who thought we had to get more ladies into politics. There was also something signed and SV of course supported. The fact that many people had to vote for SV in order to strike me, so it created an engagement that led me to break out of the city council because of that deletion. But that just shows what that means. It shows that the voters have power if they have that possibility. And that's what SV's starting point is when we go to reintroduce this, i.e. when the selectors listen to, and the selectors are going to be involved in influencing the result. It is not only the starting point for lots to be decisive. So this is part of SV an extension of democracy. Finally, as I see the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party, they are not totally opposed to this, but they seem, among other things, to me. that the people behind the configuration in this case are moving a little too fast. They simply say in their own comment that this should have been in force since 2015. So it can happen, if this case falls today, that she will show up again and be admitted, so that we get the ironing system reintroduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e857	On behalf of this temporary red-yellow-green alliance, I shall be allowed to address the minority proposal in the Committee. I'm not quite sure if there's going to be any habit. Actually, I don't think so. But in this context, it's SV that fails its comrades, and then it's good that you have someone else to look at, when that's the way it is. Now this is not exactly the most revolutionary issue, so I'm not going to put too much emphasis on the consequences of the setting we're debating right now. I think the case rapporteur, with his scarce remarks, said what is really needed to be said. We know the positions. Those who want to strike say that the voters should have influence, and we who want to maintain that it is fully possible to give influence to the voters by giving them extensive access to cumulation, also say that the voters should have influence. So I don't think the goal in itself is so different for any of the two proposals we're facing here. For us, it has been important that the evaluation carried out, to a very small extent, if any, may point to some particular reason why the deletion should be reinstated. We voted to remove it, and there might well have been so many practical considerations around it as purely principal, but what I want to emphasize is that in my opinion, ironing has given greater opportunity for an action democracy, which really affects only a few. The action democracy has also gone beyond specific groups, three groups, as previously explained. I would like to stress, first of all, that the ironing process has made profiling politicians in various areas fall out, because they have indeed dared to take a controversial position and stand on them. Then the representative says Gitmark that you have to bear to be unpopular. I don't doubt that anyone can't bear it, but the point here is that through this ironing access you were actually in the process of being able to pass on the different local government quite a lot, because no one would be able to deal with obvious issues, just for that reason. So there are more pragmatic approaches. I do not think the influence of voters will be particularly limited by the fact that this proposal does not have a majority today. We believe in the positive effect you can have, and we're going to have to do it in full. In addition, we have a proposal at our disposal in the Committee which is aimed at extending that possibility to apply in the event of major elections. And it will be a very interesting thing when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e870	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e873	Like previous speakers, I think you can have a purely theoretical approach or a pragmatic approach to this matter. I don't think the distance is alarmingly high in a democratic perspective, but I think there's reason to dwell on a couple of problematic aspects by reintroducing the possibility of eradicating. One is well documented, for example: from the Institute for Social Research, which produced a report in 2009. It concludes that the positive effect of reintroducing this will be small. The possible increase in electoral participation will not be permanent – it may be a one-off event that you get a certain interest the first time – while the potential negative effect on democracy is also there. Now I'm not so worried about Langeland and other profiled politicians, who have to take off, but there are three other groups that the report highlights, which I think are more problematic. It's women, young people and immigrants. I think that's a potential problem, not necessarily a real problem with the experiences we've had, but when you look at the over-representation of deletions for these three groups, it's a potential problem. But I'm a pragmatic guy, and I want to take a slightly different angle of incidence. We now all run around our local teams and get nomination lists for the local selection. In my region, which is not the most popular region, it's probably at the base of 20,000 in the seven municipalities, you have to struggle – almost all of the parties – to put in place proper lists. I'm not now talking to my sick mother, because in that region it was actually 90 pst. Red-Green at the previous big elections, so I'm not so worried about the Workers' Party in that region – and in my municipality there were even three lists at the previous municipal elections, and they were red-green – but it's a potential problem. The reason why that's the case, of course, isn't that the voters are so wise, but there's a lack of alternatives. In that perspective, I think it's a real problem that you now want to add another element in terms of making it difficult to get people to say yes to the lists, and I see in the newspaper – almost daily now – that people have been asked by three, four, five different political parties. There is something that has not been particularly problematic about the position, and that I think deserves more attention, because it is a real problem of democracy that should be addressed. So there are many reasons why people refuse to agree to participate in the policy, but adding another burden to the possible yes-answer to a nomination list should not be done now. Then I fully agree with the representative Syversen that there is also a risk of a development in which people refuse to make unpopular decisions in local government just because you can get negative payments at the next round. It's also a real problem that you've heard, repeatedly, has been an experience. So when you add this, from a practical everyday life, I think the gain -- and the theoretical approach -- by reintroducing this becomes significantly less than the real negative effect it will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e886	It is excellent that there appears to be a majority in this Chamber to reintroduce voters’ opportunity to also extinguish — in addition to cumulating — in municipal elections. This case is better suited to increase the commitment to political work than the previous case we dealt with – the trial system for electronic choice – and far better than the appeal of Flax block for those who come forward on election day, etc., for this is about extending the electorate's power over politics. It has been suggested as a risk that the voters – this indeterminate mass – who are then the most important body of democracy, should therefore choose to use their influence negatively. For those who are concerned about it: we have historical experience of the fact that it has gone well before. In addition, we need to see this in the context of the acceptance of the possibility of protecting those whom they want, from any unpopular decisions they've had, and they're afraid that the voters will remember in the election. From my own local experience here from the city, I know that both the Labour Party and the Right needed to protect their leaders in the Building Council, because it is a rather conflict-sensitive body dealing with many issues of conflicting interests that may not have much to do with politics, and then both parties realized that this could be necessary. So I see this extended possibility for voters to also vote negatively in connection with the fact that, after all, the parties have the opportunity – to a reasonable extent – to pre-protect vulnerable candidates. You can also satisfy groups that would otherwise be afraid of being underrepresented. Let me just end by saying that there's also a relationship to the rest of the system. One thing is how the voters react to the ballots, with the people presented to them on election day, but it is also a side of democracy that we should be concerned about – and where the political parties have to bear the primary responsibility – that we have good, open and broad processes to get candidates representative of the community into the lists. Then it is very interesting that in our time it is also increasingly interested in – among other things. there are two counties in the Right who do so – to implement the urnomination by means of an electronic offer to all their members. It is also the way in which lots should go to open up their previously rather closed and narrow nomination processes for a larger proportion of voters, so that they can be included there. With the party's membership, it would otherwise be possible to make a claim that the parties should not have the real monopoly they currently have to set up electoral lists in front of elections, and then I think the political parties themselves will see fit to secure open and democratic processes before they present their candidates to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e898	There is a broad consensus in this room that it is important that voters can influence the composition of local authorities and county councils during elections. That's a good starting point. I think we all also agree that the fact that voters can change their composition by giving people votes increases their interest in elections. It's an important part of our democracy. That's why I think giving an extra voice to as many people as you want is a much more constructive way to participate in democracy than ironing candidates. Although this proposal does not deal with wholesale choice, it is also allowed to renumber the lists by wholesale choice, but in practice it means very, very little, because there are so many demands for everyone to make the same changes. I know that there is a broad consensus in this room that elected bodies should be composed in the most representative way possible. That means that all groups should have equal access to participate in elected bodies. Then the question will be how we ensure it. Several have referred to the 2009 survey of the Institute for Social Research. It's shown several things, but the special thing that I'm concerned with here is the effect, first of all, of any reintroduction of the access to ironing out people on the lists under municipal elections. To be balanced in that debate and also in relation to social development: I don't think it would have had dramatic consequences for so very, very many if we were to reintroduce this access, except for one group, and that's the immigrant population. They have many steps to go through in order to be nominated, and access to ironing is one last – what to say – extra chance of their falling out. The risk of that happening is so great that I disagree very much that it should be reintroduced as an opportunity in the electoral law. Although Oslo is not my city, it was very interesting to go in and look at what happened during the 2009 big shot. There are a lot of parties here that have immigrant candidates on their lists. A review shows that there is a systematic deletion of candidates with a so-called foreign-speaking name in almost all electoral lists. If you look at the Workers' Party, which is my party, all five of our immigrant candidates are crossed over 1,000 times. Even the third person on the list in Oslo got more than 1,000 strikes. If we go to the Progress Party, which had two immigrant candidates on its list, both were deleted over 1,000 times. There are almost twice as many deletions as third parties on the Progress Party list. It's pretty big. In the right, Akhtar Chaudhry was strangled almost 1,400 times. But much of it was weighed up by a good deal of personal voices. It's a fact, very clear, that immigrants are systematically being extinguished. The question is, how are we to ensure that this important population, the people with this important background, does not fall out of our democracy? I believe that the right to delete the lists should definitely not be reintroduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e911	It is interesting to sit in the Chamber today and listen to the debate on democracy and electoral systems, and on the basics of the regime we have in Norway, both at national and local level. Making sure we have people who want to be candidates also for local elections is important. This question has been raised before. In January 2008, an almost similar proposal was discussed, where the government received a call to consider these issues. A mission was then given to the Institute for Social Research in cooperation with the University of Oslo and the Rokkan Centre to resolve the question. There are strong selection environments gathering behind the thorough analyses provided in report No. 5 in 2009 from the Institute for Social Research, Effects of the possible reintroduction of exterminations by local government elections. The report is based on data from several data sources, and the survey ranges from 1995 to 2007. In the period from 1991 onwards, I myself was a participant in local and county elections as a candidate and was also involved in and conducted elections. It was quite clear to see the effects of the option to delete the lists. In Sogndal, where I made a choice in 1991, there were not many with foreign names, so the effects did not come out, but the discomfort that the party had made to get especially younger, and younger women, to be quiet on the lists, were made quite to a small extent by the elections in the 1990s, because the new candidates, who were then little aware – competent, young people who wanted to put their powers to consultation – were quite effectively stroked to the bottom of the lists. Of course, we also saw other effects, that those who had faced some controversial issues, who had to stand up, might have had the same fate. The report of the Institute for Societal Research concludes that there is no reason to believe that the possibility of eradicating would affect the electoral process or the frequency of listing corrections in municipal government elections. A majority of the candidates were negative because it was no longer possible to delete. If a party still wants to secure certain candidates, the voice plugin should be enhanced when the voters have the option to delete. Otherwise, small groups of voters who want specific candidates will have greater possibilities for closing. So, ironing opens will make it possible to perform actions more effectively than if you don't open them. The report shows that Norwegian voters have little knowledge of the effects of the corrections they can make. There is something we have to work with in the future: that those who go to the urns to choose have to know what possibilities they have, and what effect they have on the lists. The report also showed that top candidates and others at the top of the lists were most often stroked, but women, young people and candidates with foreign names – as it has clearly been highlighted by this pulpit – will also be at high risk in this way. The report shows that there are obvious effects of reintroducing the possibility of deleting the lists, and that it must be seen in a context if one is to go to such a step, which is not then relevant, as the size is negative to it today. But if you were to open it at a later date, you have to see it in context with the consequences of the voice plugin the party can give to the candidates. One needs to look at whether the rules for the candidate resolution need to be changed, and one needs to go through the whole system, as determined by the election law selection NOU in 2001, which was pre-treated in 2002. One of the objectives of the choice choice was to harmonise the legislation so that the changes made by the selector would be as easy and easy to understand as possible. It was also a goal that the voters should express positive preferences by giving people votes to candidates they like instead of ironing out candidates they don't like. I record that several of those who have been in the pulpit are occupied by the positive attitude one then gives candidates. It must be possible to change the options. I'm also busy with what the representative of Tetzschner said: how a party nominees. It should also be the subject of debate between the political parties and within each political party, in order to ensure that one has a democratic and open access to the nomination processes in relation to the composition of the electoral lists. Both the composition of electoral lists and the way in which the elections will be carried out have an impact on democracy, and so there are important debates going on in the United Kingdom today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e928	I am in favour of electoral participation, and I am in favour of a broader democracy, for the reasons that have been highlighted by this pulpit through the debate. The representative Syversen pointed out in his speech that one could be punished for making unpopular decisions. It's clearly very true in that, but the main reason why I'm opposed to the reintroduction of ironing is some if it's who's equipped with the thickest alcohol thousand: it's the farm animal. At least as many ironings come for social reasons as for political reasons. Some places are like erasing as a personal, not a political act. The ones that get stroked are a good indicator of it. Here you can see that a person thinks it's a little unwell that the neighbor on the list has kids outside of marriage, that one thought they should spend more time at home and not keep up with politics, and not least that they've been annoying a lot in the newspapers lately – so it's okay to give a message with a pen stroke without anyone seeing it. I think reintroducing ironing will give a less representative democracy. And I think at Stortinget we have to work for a more positive democracy, not more power for the farm animal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e937	It is alarming how much knowledge the last speaker had about the reasons why voters choose as they do, and prefer those they do; it may well be that they believe that someone is better qualified to sit on a local government than others. It is consistently with the representatives of the Workers' Party that it is considered a problem that individual groups are deleted. So it's a problem that the voters have an opinion that goes beyond the decision of the party organisation. This suggests that there is a relationship with democracy that cannot necessarily be called democratic. We have a problem, I think, when many in this Chamber think that the vision of the voters is clear and clear is a problem. For the Progress Party, there is no problem in that we want to listen to what the voters want. If you – in the Labour Party or in the Centre Party or in other parties – have problems getting enough immigrants, enough women, enough young people or a little older, into your local government, then you get to use the arrangements that exist to secure these representatives. And there we have this excellent with voice additions, or cumulations, that the representative Tetzschner has taken up, and that I have also shown in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e946	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Footage, see page 778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e962	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e971	The issue we are about to deal with now is a proposal from the Left to equalise and treat alcohol produced locally. In recent years, a broad political understanding has emerged that bets on locally produced food and drink will be an important contribution for Norwegian agriculture, for districts and for tourism. This applies to both farm and small local burners. Our task will then be to facilitate that this can be implemented. For a long time it seemed that there was a cross-political consensus that this had to be done. A number of people from government parties — including government councils — have repeatedly been out in the media and have supported the intention of this proposal. The fact that those who have dealt with these questions have believed that the legislation should now be amended is therefore not very strange. The parties to the government have finally decided, the tradition believes, to vote against the proposal, even though some of their own representatives in this Chamber have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The vote may therefore be somewhat exciting. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, justify their vote on the retention of the monopoly regime and the ban on advertising alcoholic beverages. Governments in their letter notify changes to the alcohol law, but the wine monopoly and advertising ban shall be retained. It is also clear that you do not want to provide information on your own Internet pages. Nor do you want to allow the sale of locally produced alcohol — nor do you want to allow the supply of locally produced alcohol. This is being voted against today. In addition, in its letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that exemptions from the ban on advertising may be granted through regulations — which the Council of State advises against — but indicates that an amendment to the alcohol law is not really necessary. In summary, everyone wants locally produced food and drink. Everyone thinks it is important, and a number of good arguments for why have emerged well during the examination of the proposal. But not everyone is willing to thank you for succeeding immediately. 'Discrimination is a paradox', says an interview with Minister of Industry Trond Giske in the evening post.no on 7 June. It is a fact that the turnover of wine and spirits has increased in recent years, while the turnover of beer has decreased. You can ask yourself if this is a crazy policy. At least the wine monopoly can inform about its products on its own websites – the beer industry is not allowed to do the same. It's this discrimination the Minister of Industry calls a paradox, but he hasn't been heard. On the website of the Vinmonopolet, we're getting a full-time advertising of alcohol. Along with the image of a tempting pizza, it says: ‘The home layer of pizza can be varied infinitely according to taste and pleasure. Pizza with shellfish goes well with white wine, like Chardonnay. If you go to the website Drinking, you will have problems seeing differences between this and the pages of the Wine Monopoly. All you understand is that one side is about beer, the other is about wine and spirits. But there is one big difference: the website Drinking is forbidden. The Directorate points out that bans on the advertising of alcohol mean that even if the text does not contain the name or picture of the drink, and even if the word alcohol is not included, it is considered to be advertising — and therefore an infringement of the alcohol law. In the VG on 3 October I read a chronicle that I would recommend more people to read. The author Dagfinn Nordbø tells from a stay in Ulvik. He says, among other things:\t\t You can "There was an opportunity to taste the treats a little bit, too, and I promise that this guy's apple pages rank several classes over the most splintered and mass-produced fountain water from the continent. But can I buy a bottle with me? No, I'm sorry. [[...]] We are in Norway, the country where every Norwegian can go online and order alcoholic beverages from any producer abroad – but not from the farmer in Norway. [[...]] I can go to Coop in Ulvik and buy beer from a Swedish-owned brewery, but not local drinks." And he sums up, among other things. with the following: ‘In Balestrand, the products of apples are now burned; in Seljord, the wine is made from forest berries and in Finnland from creking. [[...]] But in Norway we shall regulate and hide the results of the Lord's crop as carefully as possible." It cannot be said better – and the Minister of Agriculture will not be heard. The Progress Party is concerned with jobs, districts, agriculture and good Norwegian food and beverages, and we want to find solutions to the challenges and problems that are being presented to us. That is why we are promoting proposals for amendments. I would like to take up the proposals on the subject on which the Progress Party stands alone, and the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting together with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1008	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1011	Norway has a restrictive alcohol policy that it has been and is widely supported in the United Kingdom. It should be important for all our alcohol policies relating to both prevention, treatment and aftercare. The goal of alcohol policy is to reduce the total consumption of alcohol in our society, whether it be of beer, wine or spirits. The proposals that have now been put forward will perhaps undermine both the wine monopoly system and the ban on advertising alcoholic beverages, for which there has been a broad political majority in the Stortinget – the monopoly system is, however, a problem for EEA law. The government is concerned that Norwegian small-scale producers will be given the opportunity to convert local traditional beverages, but then within the wine monopoly shops and range. The majority of the Committee is pleased that, in a short time, there will be significant improvements in the possibilities of converting Norwegian small-scale products through these schemes. The same majority also asks the State Council to report appropriately to the Stortinget to provide a good information on the experience of offering products from Norwegian small-scale producers in the stores of the Vinmonopolet. Of course, the majority of the Committee is concerned that Norwegian food and drink traditions should be respected, but this cannot, of course, go ahead of public health considerations. This is precisely what is good prevention in many areas. The majority agree with the Council of State that consideration of the monopoly system must go ahead of the Norwegian producers’ wish to be sold to the consumer from their own farm. As regards the second proposal, on the embellishment of the ban on advertising, the majority would also stress that the ban on advertising has both a consumer-reducing and awareness-raising justification, which we have advocated in the past. The size has also previously decided to oppose these proposals. The rapporteur refers to Sweden, Finland and other countries. But now we also see that the same debate is taking place in Sweden on how to avoid the prohibition of discrimination in the EU, not only by giving farm sales the right to sell not only self-produced drinks, but also self-produced drinks from other countries. Yes, what does it mean – self-produced drinks from Germany, France, Italy, etc.? In any case, it will be part of and undermine the monopoly of wine we have in Norway today. The position of the majority is that we do not accept the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1032	Since it is Friday afternoon, and many will probably have the plane home, I will be very brief. Maybe some people will go home and enjoy some of the products mentioned in this proposal. I just want to say that we would like to thank the Left for addressing an important issue that concerns two very important issues: firstly, the possibility that local producers have, and could have, to be able to sell their farm products, and secondly, the long tradition of Norway in brewing, and the importance of maintaining that culture. It is also an important issue for the Right, while the Right is also concerned with both securing the wine monopoly system and ensuring the advertising ban – which we see as an essential instrument in the Norwegian alcohol policy, in the balance between the fact that alcohol is a legitimate product that people are going to buy, but not a common product because it also has some negative aspects. That is why, together with the Progress Party in this matter, we have put forward two proposals which are somewhat more precise in relation to the original proposals in the document and which will just underline that we believe it is fully possible to achieve what the proposer here wants, while at the same time being well within the limits of both the advertising ban and the wine monopoly system, which must be a prerequisite for doing so. One may sometimes get the impression that when one discusses changes in Norwegian alcohol legislation, one is so terrified of undermining these schemes that one does not at all dare to look at it or do anything about it, but prefers to sit with his hands in front of both eyes and ears. It must be possible to look at what one does in other countries, discuss possible solutions, and find out things that both safeguard our interests and respect the wine monopoly system and the advertising ban. We believe that the proposals No. 1 and 2 in this case will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1041	Today, we are discussing a proposal for a representative to amend the alcohol law so that demonstration sales and serving are allowed during visits to production premises or in connection with them, and a change in the alcohol law so that producers of alcoholic beverages are informed of their products on their own Internet pages. The majority point out in the case that there is a need to maintain the wine monopoly and the ban on advertising alcoholic beverages as essential elements of our alcohol policy tool package, which is the basis for not accepting the proposals at this stage. In this case, we also refer to the State Council's letter to the Committee, which states that the government will make proposals for changes to the alcohol law in the case of sales in its own activities for producers of alcoholic beverages up to 4.7 % vol. alcohol. Government batches are concerned that local small-scale producers will be better able to market and sell their products than has been the case until now. Therefore, it is very positive that, in addition to the change that comes for sale in own activities of alcoholic beverages up to 4.7 % vol., there has recently also been a significant change from the Vinmonopolet side in favour of taking locally produced goods into the range of products. We can read on the website of the Vinmonopolet: ‘Within the current legislation, the wine monopoly wants to facilitate the sale of products from local small-scale producers. We will therefore make adjustments and adjustments in our purchasing systems, shops and in our online store." As of September, 23 Norwegian products have been launched in the Vinmonopolet range this year, compared to four this year. Norwegian small-scale products will be collected in a separate overview in the product lists and online store. There will also eventually be a separate ‘Norwegian’ shelf in the shops. There is a separate strategy for the bet on local products for which detailed information is provided on the Vinmonopole website. In a short time, therefore, there will be a significant improvement in the potential for Norwegian small-scale products to be traded through the Vinmonopolet. The point is that the small scale products included in the range of the Vinmonopole will be provided with the same product information as other products without compromising the advertising ban. The experience of the new strategy of the Vinmonopolet has asked us in this matter that the Stortinget be properly informed. The government parties also point out in their comments that we are aware that in Sweden, there is an investigation into what can be opened up for the direct sale of locally produced alcoholic goods without compromising the rules of the monopoly of sales and the EU rules. In comments on the matter, we stress that political management and the Department should closely follow this process and the work done in Sweden, in terms of transfer of experience. It is known that many in the Central Party are very concerned about getting into such a system as the Left proposes in its proposal for a representative. This applies, for example: side producers in Hardanger, located in my home country. At the same time, we in the Central Party are aware that such arrangements must not be implemented without ensuring that the monopoly system is not challenged.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1061	The Christian People's Party supports what has been said that the sale of alcohol from local producers and marketing would threaten the wine monopoly and the advertising ban on alcoholic goods. The alcohol policy, where the monopoly of wine and the ban on advertising are central parts, should be firm. It is probably not the intention of the proposers to weaken the Norwegian alcohol policy. Isolatedly, some farm sales with self-produced beer, wine or spirits are not what overturns the alcohol policy. Producers are today allowed to serve their own products to their guests, with a gift permit. However, if sales directly from the producer lead to the fall of the entire wine monopoly system, then sudden sales have had very serious consequences. That several government councils in the red-green government have arranged for such sales from producers, is a bit surprising. However, I am pleased that the Health Committee agrees with the Christian People's Party in the conclusion, and that the Health Minister has also been very clear in his position here. The Minister of Agriculture has referred to Finland in this context. There have been 49 farm sales reduced to 36 because of lack of profitability. Farm sales have created 100 jobs, but most of these new jobs are linked to production and not to the sale of products. In Sweden, as the representative Toppe was also involved, it was investigated whether direct sales of locally produced alcoholic goods could be opened without compromising the rules of the monopoly on sales and the EU rules. This investigation shall be completed on 1 January 2011. According to surveys in Swedish newspapers in recent days, the conclusion in the investigation suggests that local producers will also have to sell similar products from other countries. DN in Sweden writes: «Garden stores should not be allowed to sell only self-produced alcohol. They should also be allowed to sell spirits, wine or beer from other producers. It is, experience DN, the conclusion of the farm sales investigation that is soon to be presented.’ In Sweden, therefore, it appears that the prohibition of discrimination in the EU can only be avoided by the right of farm sales to sell self-produced drinks, but that they must also sell self-produced drinks from other EU countries. In that case, there will be a solid erosion of the monopoly system, and I hope there is no one who wants that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1079	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough presentation of the draft representative from the Left. This is a matter with which the Left has worked for a long time, and which has strong support, among other things. in the tourism industry, and from central red-green representatives, to which the rapporteur of the case was addressed. We now wanted to test whether there is a real political will to do something about the law change, but then one. The solo games of Minister of Agriculture Breck, Minister of Industry Giske and Red-Green representatives here at Stortinget have little value. It should be noticed by the travel industry. The left considers that bets on local food and drink production based on local raw materials are important for the future of Norwegian agriculture, tourism and living rural communities. Therefore, we should also stimulate the local small-scale production of beer, wine and sides. Public sector instruments, including: through Innovation Norway, has been an important contributor to local food and drink production. However, legislation related to production, distribution and service provision is often a hindrance to the success of production. Not least this is the case with alcoholic beverages. An example is a side producer in Hardanger, on which the representative Toppe was also involved, who received innovation money for the development of a side factory, including an Internet page that briefed on the factory, but which was refused by the Social and Health Directorate to provide information on the pages on the Internet site. This is going to be a little bit weird. Now some representatives of the Workers' Party – at least one – have announced that they will vote for small-scale producers to sell their own alcohol in connection with a new agricultural notification, but not today. Understand the one who can. Finally, the Left will vote in favour of the proposals today. 1 and 2 in the vote, with the same justification as Mr. Right Bent Höie gave, and in the light of the answer given by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1094	Norway has long traditions to have a comprehensive alcohol policy. The main instruments are the authorisation system, the wine monopoly system, limited selling and delivery times, specific prohibitions and prohibitions, including advertising bans, statutory age limits and restrictive charging policies. These restrictive instruments have proved effective in achieving the objectives of alcohol policy. In the escalation plan for the drug field, the government has said that these instruments should be maintained. It is important that we maintain the ban on advertising alcohol. There are a few necessary exceptions, including: to make it practicable to convert alcohol to the next stage of sale. The monopoly of wine and sales authorisation sellers are allowed to inform consumers of the products they sell in a very sober manner. The same can be done by manufacturers and wholesalers to their buyers – that is, wholesalers, shops and gift shops. The wine monopoly is a recognised alcohol policy instrument. The EEA Agreement sets out the requirements for monopolies. Among other things, we cannot open up the sale of alcoholic beverages above 4.7 % vol. from non-Vinmonopoles. In that case, it would put the whole scheme at risk. As the committee points out, we're familiar with the process in Sweden, and we'll follow up on what's going on. It is important that stronger alcohol products from local producers in Norway are subject to the same controls as products from other producers, that is to say control through the marketing system represented by the Vinmonopoly. The wine monopoly wishes to facilitate the marketing of its products by Norwegian small-scale producers through the Vinmonopolet – and within the framework of the EEA Agreement. Local producers already have the opportunity to donate their own alcoholic beverages containing more than 4,7 % vol. alcohol. The Ministry has consulted on a proposal to also allow the sale of self-produced drinks up to a volume of 4,7 %. We aim to submit a bill to Stortinget before Christmas. I understand that breweries and local producers want to inform customers about their products – as producers of non-alcoholic goods can do. Alcohol, however, is not a normal product, but a product that has significant adverse effects. We as authorities therefore have a responsibility to help limit the extent of harm caused by alcohol use. It is important that we maintain current alcohol policy instruments. We have a long and good tradition of using the most effective means to reduce the harm caused by alcohol consumption. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1111	The next speaker is Per Roar Bredvold. They are not registered that someone has asked for a reply, and you do so by clicking on the screen. Then the president will register this. If you want to do it again, the president is now starting to change lines, using old methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1119	I'm sorry, President. I was a little slow. The Ministry, as the Council of State said, will review the legislation and propose changes to the alcohol legislation in the case of beverages of up to 4.7 % by volume. It's positive. That's very good. Based on all the feedback we've heard or read through the media from red-green government councils and representatives, are we moving on? Can we just assume that you're going to go further, just over 4.7% by volume? Is it the beginning of something in the direction of the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1128	There are some factors at the bottom of how we can deal with that proposal. One is about, as I very much agree with the Left, that we are going to maintain the monopoly of wine, and we can in a way not challenge it because it is the most important alcohol policy tool we have in Norway. The second is the ban on advertising, which is a total ban on advertising alcoholic beverages. These two conditions are important to emphasise and focus on. So in terms of what the Vinmonopole and other local producers can do, it will be possible to allow the sale of self-produced alcoholic beverages by up to 4.7 vol. per cent, if this proposal goes through in the Storting, but not the sale of local produced more than 4.7 vol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1135	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1140	Although this matter has come to the Health and Care Committee, it is also a matter for the Business Committee. In the view of the Progress Party, this is also about giving rural areas, and especially agriculture, opportunities – opportunities very many in the past have had long and good traditions in, as in my home country, Hedmark. There's a lot of talk about short-range food. But some places, without this being the law, there are also short-range spirits. This is also a good proposal for the tourist industry, as they can expand their offer with locally produced alcoholic beverages, in the form of both beer, sides, wine and spirits. There will then be opportunities for many new experiences and thus new incomes. For the Progress Party, this is a matter in which we can welcome most of the other parties. In our agricultural programme, it says: ‘It is also appropriate to provide for local producers to produce and sell their own alcoholic beverages such as beer, wine and cider directly to customers.’; In today's situation, where farmers are becoming fewer and fewer, where the agricultural economy is getting worse, where it now stands about. 34 000 empty farm buildings, and where there is strict legislation, many noblemen and boys are doubtful whether they will take over after their parents. We have to do something about this. The same applies partly within the tourism industry. That is why I was happy when I read that the Minister of Agriculture was in favour of production and sales, etc. But what happens? When the matter is pending today, the vote will be taken, among other things. The centre party, although Minister of Agriculture Breck has previously said that direct sales of alcohol from farm producers and microbreweries will provide great opportunities for the value creation and strengthening of Norwegian food diversity. But when the matter comes here, you don't want to be part of it – strange. This may, of course, be due to several things, but it may be that we have government councils that are too weak and do not get good things out, that we have a centre party that does not want the districts to flourish, or that we believe that this is progress party policy that we do not want to support – no matter how good the proposal is. I do not think it is enough to have sympathy for a proposal, as Minister of Agriculture Breck has in this matter. You have to fight to win. For agriculture and tourism, this would help to give creative people a new opportunity either to obtain or to secure their jobs. After all, alcohol is a product that's already on the market, an item that can all be bought if you're old enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1160	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1176	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1185	The size shall address three proposals for rehabilitation. Two of the proposals are to reverse the closure of the pool and that the pool should not be laid down until the new option is in place. The last proposal is to include physiotherapy in the input-driven funding. The Committee considers that the proposers address important issues and indicates that using a pool as part of the treatment gives good health effects. The Committee also agrees with the concerns expressed by the proposers regarding the closure of the pool. It is shown, among others: to the socio-economic benefit of pool provision by improving the health of large patient groups. It has also underlined the Minister for Health in his letter to the Committee on the subject, stressing that it is also expected that health businesses and municipalities will have adequate access to the pool. Then it's the municipalities and health companies that have to decide how this is to be done locally. However, the warning signals given must be taken seriously, and it is therefore important to follow developments closely in the future. It is also proposed to include outpatient physiotherapy in the input-driven funding. The majority of the Committee does not reject the proposal initially, but believes it is important first to get an overview of the extent of outpatient physiotherapy in healthcare establishments, and then to decide whether to include it. It is also referred to the response of the Council of State, where it is clear that this will be done in the context of the treatment of the cooperation reform. Finally, I would like to say that it is important to keep a political focus on rehabilitation and rehabilitation. To quote from the introduction to the national strategy, which is now being implemented, for the period 2008–2011, on rehabilitation. It states that rehabilitation does not have the position and performance of the overall health and welfare policy objectives. The adopted strategy is just about to change this. When the Spring Summit is to take decisions on the implementation of the Cooperation Reform, the necessary basis for lifting the rehabilitation must be laid. Stronger policy governance, individual plans, increased user involvement, obliging cooperation agreements between health businesses and municipalities are some of the keywords. This is what we come back to in Stortinget when the cooperation reform is to be addressed to the spring. So I conclude with that and I refer to the Committee proposing that the proposals be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1202	There is broad political excitement that we should ensure habilitation, rehabilitation and training for everyone who needs it. This is why the government has presented its national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, where it is clearly defined how this field should be strengthened. The task of the regional health enterprises and the Health Directorate is to follow up the strategy. Outpatient physiotherapy is an important part of the provision to be available to the population. Some health establishments have previously been able to use a practice of tariffs and excesses based on the system of physiotherapists in the community health service. This scheme, to which the proposal for a representative refers, was closed in 2010, which in turn led to 35 million. kr was transferred from the outpatient budget to the basic appropriations of all regional health enterprises, in order to be able to be more fairly distributed between health regions and hospitals. However, new estimates showed that reimbursement payments were much larger than this amount, and the transfer was further reinforced by 8 million. in the case of supplementary appropriations and re-priorities to the State budget for the current year. The change was part of the desire to simplify and clear up the refinancing of somatic outpatient activities. The proposers behind the proposal we are debating now point to and believe that the new method of funding has led to a reduction in rehabilitation services in some places. We believe that it is important to find out if this has happened, and to provide even clearer guidance for health companies and to stress their care-care-responsibilities in the rehabilitation field. The representatives behind the proposal request that outpatient physiotherapy in hospitals be included as an ordinary part of the effort-driven funding and include all health care establishments. In this context, the red-green fraction wishes to get an overview of the extent of outpatient physiotherapy in health businesses, so that it can then be assessed whether this should be included in the ISF. As the rapporteur also mentioned, the Minister of Health and Health said earlier that she would assess this in the context of further work on the cooperation reform. Both municipalities, hospitals and private training and rehabilitation institutions that have agreements with regional health companies are part of the comprehensive and coordinated service provision we want to have in the rehabilitation field. For some strange reason, the opposition believes – and they also say in their proposal – that rehabilitation efforts have fallen during this government. That's wrong. For example, from 2006-2009 onwards, the earmarked appropriations for the purchase of services from private rehabilitation institutions are significant. For 2010, these earmarked funds have been transferred to the framework of regional health establishments. In addition, health enterprises have used funds from the Rapid Repurchase scheme to purchase services from the rehabilitation institutions. I think this misunderstanding is because the opposition has been suspended in the number of days spent overnight that you've used in the past as a measure of good rehabilitation. Of course, daily stays can be part of the offer given, but rehabilitation is so much more and is taking place today on the basis of methods that are constantly being developed and that require different timeframes. In the mainstreaming of the Interaction Reform, a Joint Committee underlined the importance of getting more and better coordinated services for patients and users. The government is now coming up with a further increase in the appropriations for rehabilitation in the 2011 budget that were just presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1219	Such as the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Christian People's Party sounds, the Advance Party could think of a clarification, that it's about the pool at the hospitals and not in the municipalities – this because we don't want to override the municipalities. If these are the hospitals we are talking about, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party will support these. Having a good rehabilitation offer is very important for a welfare society. The Progress Party believes that it is an overall responsibility for health companies and municipalities to have good rehabilitation services at all times. The figures reported by the Ministry of Health and Welfare themselves show that there is a slight decrease in the number of rehabilitation sites between 2005 and 2009. It is true that there has been a professional development, an increase in outpatient interventions and daily stays, and a slight decrease in daily provision. But more and more people are waiting for treatment, and more and more are waiting for a rehabilitation offer. This is done at the same time as private institutions have free capacity and are ready to accept patients waiting for a treatment offer. In addition, health enterprises have wide variations in their supply, as a result of the poor economy of the individual enterprise. Municipalities have the same challenges. This is despite the fact that, in the health model of the Interaction Reform, habilitation and rehabilitation must be given a clear place, both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. It is also said that individual patient pathways require good, adapted and coherent arrangements, that rehabilitation and rehabilitation must be a natural part of the patient cycle for those patient groups that need it. But today's financial system is a long way to go to get this done. With today’s system, there are, and could be, large variations and differences depending on where you live as a patient, on what help or treatment you will receive – because the individual health care provider or municipality has different savings needs due to a weak economy. This will in turn mean that there will be greater differences in the population, as rich people can buy offers, and those who do not have the money to do so will have to wait for an offer that may not come in time for them to come back to work, for example. It seems to be very regrettable that there is such a situation in the country that people remain in line for a treatment offer, or in the utmost consequence remain unsolicited. For example, I would like to mention a study carried out by the Health Directorate’s staff, where the theme was rehabilitation services for young people under 30 years of age. Only a few doctors considered the availability of rehabilitation to be good. They also say that the main obstacle to the use of rehabilitation services for young people and adults is the lack of transparency, lack of services and long waiting times. Most decision-makers also consider that rehabilitation services are a very important tool to reduce the number of disabled people. This shows that there is a wrong path when there is no further investment in rehabilitation. By investing more in rehabilitation, more people would be able to return to work or take other work, if conditions were to be established. This would bring great socio-economic gains and, in particular, an increase in the quality of life and dignity of the person concerned. We all know how important it is to be healthy enough to be able to go to work and feel that you are contributing to society, and not least the importance of being able to stand up in everyday life without pain or pain. It is sad to note that private operators have free capacity that is not being used. In other words, it is high time that the funding mechanism changed to keep the money with the users. With such a funding model, there would be no problem as it appears today, where there is free capacity of the private while there is a lack of capacity or offer in public institutions. The Progress Party believes that much more must be invested in rehabilitation than is being done today. Here we need a raise and a change of funding. It is a good economy to invest in people, so dignity is restored to the individual, as well as many of these patients can continue or return to work. In one of the richest countries in the world, we cannot allow many to fall outside a working life as a result of lack of training or anything else. A well-functioning Norway with good treatment and training needs to be seen as an investment rather than a cost. The Advance Party wants to invest more in habilitation and rehabilitation and believes it needs to have a clearer place than it has today. The Progress Party therefore warmly welcomes a discussion on opening up the free capacity of private, non-profit and commercial offers – this for the benefit of the individual and the right and the possibility of a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1238	Will the representative Stordalen address the proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1241	Yes, then I will address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1246	It's okay to get it done. The representative of Morten Stordalen then addressed that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1249	I noticed the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen's boast of the government's efforts in the area of rehabilitation. But it's not just the opposition, but actually the entire rehabilitation field, the trade unions and the patient organisations that are stated about the government's lack of commitment to rehabilitation. I just mentioned the rehabilitation operation. It is well documented by both SINTEF and the Health Inspectorate that the training offer fails in many stages. This means lost opportunities for many people who become unnecessarily dependent on health care and social security benefits. A commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation will help patients to master their everyday life and work. This is a good investment in quality of life for many people. These include: documented good health effect for those who can use pool cleaning, and I share the concern that more offers are now at risk of being closed. It is a general political responsibility that health companies and municipalities have good offers of hot water basins and other rehabilitation services. In the right, significant efforts should be made to prevent and rehabilitate prevention. The Norwegian healthcare system is good for saving lives, but patients do not get enough help to live on. There is a failure in the training provision both in municipalities and in health enterprises and not least in the interaction between them. Many experience an impressive health service in an acute phase of heart attack, stroke or a traffic accident. When the blue lights are off and everyday life comes, too many people experience that the help fails, and often fails. There's a lot of examples of that. Only 60 pst. sufferers are offered treatment in stroke units that have demonstrated good results in terms of reduced mortality, severe disability and hospitalisation needs. Only one in five heart patients get rehabilitation, although we know that this will provide significantly faster recovery. Health surveillance has also warned that the provision of disabled children is failing throughout the country, and that many children are thus losing the opportunity to develop their potential. A commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation is an investment in greater freedom and better quality of life for many people. As I said, it is a good social economy and often reduces the need for care services. As usual, government parties can talk a lot about their good intentions of bet on rehabilitation, but a government that has had majority power for over five years is past the stage that they can impress with talk. In fact, we expect the government to deliver results. The reality is that government parties have not only broken their promises of a commitment to rehabilitation, but they are pursuing a policy that weakens the training offer. The provision of pooling and physiotherapy is being put down throughout the country, for example: in Levanger, in Oslo, in Røros, and in Kristiansund. Training institutions in Finnmark, Akershus, Uppland and Hedmark must permit employees. The employees have to visit Nav themselves instead of helping others out of the Nav queue. Patients and physiotherapists are constantly writing enquiries about increasing waiting lists and the closure of offers as a result of government changes in the financing arrangement. The Minister of Health and Welfare, by letter to the Committee on 26 August, stated that it is assumed that health regions will continue to provide the necessary treatment so as to ensure that care-related responsibilities are met in the best possible way. That's not the case. Health companies have made cuts in the pooling throughout the country, resulting in patients losing important offers that can enable them to master everyday life and work. It is a political responsibility to ensure that health businesses do not make decisions contrary to health policy, but I note that government parties place more emphasis on protecting health businesses than on caring for patients’ needs. In the end, the right has joined the proposals of the Christian People's Party that outpatient physiotherapy is included in the effort-driven funding, and that there are also possibilities for self-payment here. In addition, we will support the proposals No. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, that the government must reverse the liquidation of the pool used for rehabilitation, and reopen those that are closed, and that the government will ensure that no more pools used for rehabilitation are laid down until a new alternative is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1277	The proposalers of the Christian People's Party have submitted a proposal for a representative on rehabilitation. The representative proposal contains three proposals: reverse the winding-up of the basins and reopen those closed to ensure that no more basins are laid down until a new alternative is in place that outpatient physiotherapy is included in the effort-driven funding, and that there is also a possibility of self-payment here. The government party does not reject the proposals, but we show in the setting of the document and the proposals and recommends that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the protocol. It is because we are concerned about the intention behind the proposal for a representative, simply to ensure a good development in the area of rehabilitation, both in the specialist services and in the municipal health services, and to avoid any reduction in the pool capacity. We show in the setting of the social benefit of the pool provision through its contribution to better health for large patient groups. The Council of State, by letter to the Committee, informed that it would closely follow developments in this field. Regional health professionals are given responsibility for providing equivalent and good specialist health services to their inhabitants. Municipalities are responsible for the rehabilitation of municipalities. We do not disagree with the opposition, which in the setting states that it is a superior responsibility for health professionals and municipalities to have a good supply of hot water basins and other rehabilitation services at all times. The size has an overarching responsibility for the development of the rehabilitation field, but from then on to the decision in Stortinget that certain basins must be reopened, it is as if at Stortinget we should decide that a school in a municipality must be reopened. As in the school field, we have to set requirements for the provision in other ways and by overseeing governance and ensure that any negative development in pool access stops and is reversed. A little out of the question of health: Bass access seems to be a challenge today, not just for selected patient groups. 100 years ago, there were consistently built schools with their own schooling pool in Norway, at least in the largest cities. Today there are simply no more built schools with their own basins. It'll be too expensive to operate. For me, it's a big concern that only half of the teenagers in Norway are sympathetic. Back to the health and therapy pool: I am busy that we nationally and from the Council of State are following the bass situation very closely. We need to be able to expect that both patient and other base availability will be strengthened and not reduced, and that decisions taken in health care services will not conflict with superior health policy leadership. I believe that a better and more binding agreement between municipalities and enterprises and requirements for cooperation agreements, to be put in place in the context of the Cooperation Reform, to which the Council of State refers in its letter, is one measure that can contribute to securing the therapeutic base provision regionally and locally. In 2010, resources for outpatient physiotherapy were added to the framework of regional health care agencies. There is now a demand by many that outpatient physiotherapy be included in the input-driven funding, and that there is also a possibility here of self-payment. We do not reject these proposals, and I take seriously the concerns that have been expressed that this method of funding may have an adverse effect. I am not normally a figure for increased input-driven funding, but I have great respect for the fact that the method of funding may have an unfortunate effect on making non-political priorities. I am pleased that the Council of State in its letter refers to an assessment of this. One was made aware of this in the context of the treatment of an interpellation, and in this work one will also look at the work being done in connection with the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1306	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Geir-Ketil Hansen, for his good work. I want to make it clear that the pools we're discussing here are highly heated therapy pools that specialist health services have run, and that they're still operating somewhere. The pool in municipalities, the school pool, is something else, it's not comparable. We see that pool is laid down before new alternatives are in place. When we see that the decision to roll is not followed up, or does not work as intended, I believe that we cannot sit still and watch. The regional health establishments were even transferred to the funds previously used for the pooling operation, but several of them have flung gallantly over the demands of the Council of State in the mission document to maintain the offer. This has led to the closure or reduction of the pool. Nor has there been any impact on regional health businesses. Perhaps the most eye-catching thing now is that, after requiring the maintenance of the pool offer, the department is totally lacking an overview of the pool offer in the specialist health service. On questions from me regarding the budget on how many hospital basins have been closed and how many have been reduced, the Ministry of Health does not have information available, and that this is part of the care-responsibilities of regional health businesses. Making rapid contact with four regional health establishments and asking them to count the number of basins they have in the hospitals for which they provide funds was not possible. Does the Council of State feel that the Storting is irrelevant if patients lose such an important rehabilitation offer? I actually require a little bit more political governance. I expect the Council of State and the Department to provide adequate access to the pool, the therapy pool. We expect no offers to be made without any other offer being established. This has been addressed by the Council of State itself in other contexts. And so here it's not built up new offers for these patients. In the budget debate last year, Tore Hagebakken replied to my concern that outpatient physiotherapy would disappear, and the pool with it. He said that he ‘presupposes that health regions ensure the continuation of necessary and proper treatment’, and that these signals from the Stortinget signaled health regions. He had confidence that a good pool offer would be continued, even if the funds were included in the framework of regional health businesses. The large picture, according to the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association, is that pooling services are being reduced, outpatient activities are being considerably reduced, considerably reduced. This has had a major impact on treatment provision for many patient groups. There is a need for action now. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the government must reverse the liquidation of the pool used for rehabilitation, and reopen the basins that are there today, but that are closed. We believe that the government can and must ensure that no more pool is laid down until the new alternative is in place. Reduction is also planned in 2011. We believe that the ISF refund also for physiotherapy services can be the right solution now, as the case has evolved. What's strange about this is that you have to start investigating how much outpatient physical therapy you have. But this activity has been going on because they have been refunded. I can't think of anything else but that this is in place. The activity has been registered for many years. They've been refunded for physical therapy in outpatient clinics. In these days, even more was cut in the supply of patient groups that depend entirely on therapy. It is planned in 2011. Patients with high needs for outpatient physiotherapy services and, in particular, the treatment pool are affected. Yes, it is almost like that I want as intimately as I can, to ask the Council of State to help ensure that there is no winding-up, and that the pools standing there empty are reopened. There are hundreds of patients who are not getting this offer today. There are hundreds of patients who have suffered more pain. There are hundreds of patients who can't work anymore. There are hundreds of patients who have received medical reports. And then you stand here from the government parties and say something -- it was Tove Karoline Knutsen -- that we're going to investigate whether that's true what we're saying, we have to find out if that's the case that the pool is closed. Take a phone or two and you'll hear it. They're actually closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1326	I expect that the representative will also address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1329	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1334	The representative of Laila Davøy has then taken up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1337	After listening to some of the submissions, I find reason to conclude that I am concerned that patients who need it will be offered the necessary rehabilitation and training. However, regional health establishments have overall responsibility for accessing equivalent and good specialist health services to citizens. This also applies to specialised rehabilitation where physical therapy is also included. Municipalities are responsible for rehabilitation in the municipality, including physiotherapy services. The specialist health service and the local health service shall cooperate in ensuring a good offer to patients and that the service is provided at the appropriate level. Some of the services may be located in the border country between the municipal health service and the specialist health service, and must be organised according to local circumstances. In addition to the competences available, geographical conditions will also affect the organisation of services. In the proposal for a new law on municipal health and care services, the government proposes to legislate that municipalities and health businesses enter into cooperation agreements. Such agreements will even better facilitate the adaptation and dimensioning of the provision of services in municipalities and health enterprises. This will also apply to pool services. Rehabilitation will be particularly important in order to achieve the objectives of the Cooperation Reform. The government will therefore place great emphasis on this in the further work. Representatives suggest that the government ensure that outpatient physiotherapy is also included in the effort-driven funding and that self-payment is provided. Physiotherapy in specialised rehabilitation is currently part of the basis for the calculation of DRG scores for regional health enterprises. The assumption is that physiotherapists are part of a multidisciplinary team, and that such health care triggers self-esteem. About 14,000 such stays have been included in the 2009 estimates for input-driven funding. However, this figure does not show all outpatient physiotherapy carried out in healthcare companies. In order to obtain an overview of the extent of outpatient physiotherapy in health enterprises, the activity must first be recorded and reported. Such reporting has been required in 2011. In this respect, I would like to ask the Health Directorate to review the physiotherapy area of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1356	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1359	The silver bulkhead mountain Rehabilitation Centre in Oppland has received money from health authorities to develop and develop rehabilitation skills for ME patients. The background was that there has been and is a very poor offer to this patient group on a national basis. But now the rehabilitation centre is in danger of being closed from January 2011 because they have lost their tender and are not allowed to extend their agreement with Health South-East, despite the fact that there is a great need for this special competence. My question to the Council of State is whether it makes sense for health authorities to first spend money — a lot of money too — to contribute to the creation of such a unique offer, and that one then has to make a tender that does not take into account the need to ensure important treatment for this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1364	First, let me say that Health South-East is responsible for all patient groups and to provide all patient groups with a sound health service, whether for treatment or for rehabilitation. As regards the ME Group, it is clear that it is important to maintain that treatment or, at least, not to decrease it until an equivalent offer is established. That, I think, is a prerequisite for any kind of necessary treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1371	Rehabilitation is an essential element in the cooperation reform and is mentioned as being of particular importance. Kommune-Norway welcomes the cooperation reform, but they have some important issues. Of course, it's economics, and I know that there's a lot of offers going on in the municipality of Norway these days. Since rehabilitation is such an important area, as we have also debated here today, what will the Council of State do to the municipalities in order to enable them to provide good services to the citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1376	The basis for the new national health and care plan submitted, which is now available as online consultation documents, also includes funding for municipalities and different types of funding. But let me just make it clear that it is precisely because we see that it is at the intersection of the responsibility of the specialist health service and the responsibility of the municipalities not least for rehabilitation, that the cooperation reform is so important. Therefore, it is important that there are agreements between the municipality and the hospital. Therefore, it is also important that the municipalities are able to operate rehabilitation, I believe that much more rehabilitation must take place in the municipalities, such as that. In the municipality of Trondheim, where they have been good at building up types of rehabilitation services after hospitalisation, patients should not travel long distances to get needed rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1381	This year, many hundreds of patients have lost their therapy training in the pool. The offer has not been replaced by any other offer. They lost this offer. Thus, regional health enterprises do not fulfil their responsibilities under the contract documents, nor do they fulfil their responsibilities under care. The Council of State today says that patients should receive the rehabilitation they need. Everything I say can be documented. There are hundreds of patients who can do it in the daytime. My question to the Council of State is: when regional health companies do not follow the mission document, do not offer an alternative offer, what is the responsibility of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1390	Of course, I am responsible for the regional health companies and provide the necessary guidance in the mission document and business meetings. But at the same time, there is also a very clear distinction between my political responsibility and what is the medical assessment in each case, and what the individual offer should have. I have said in general that in terms of rehabilitation and the various rehabilitation services, they have to be continued. We have now said year by year that it should continue at least at the same level as the previous year. And I see it as of course that offers are not closed until there is a new one, unless there is an equivalent or alternative offer that can replace the offers that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1398	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 779]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1416	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1425	One of the main societal challenges we face is drug use and drug dependence, especially among young boys and girls, who are making their debut in the past. I am pleased that all parties are engaged in different instruments to limit the negative development in drug abuse. Proposals raise important questions in their proposal for a representative on the measures to be tested, in particular as regards the responses of those who use substances or have substances on them. I would like to point out that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's response in this matter. A working group of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice has now been set up to investigate alternative responses to minor drug crimes, i.e. their use and possession, in the light of the report of the Stoltenberg Committee. It is important that we now do not pre-empt the report that will come and the proposals that may be promoted. This working group shall deliver its report on 30 June 2011. It is then natural that various proposals are evaluated and promoted by them, and that we do not now advance this work, as I have said. The government has also announced its own news of drug policy. Prevention will continue to be the most important drug policy instrument in the future. It is far better to spend resources on prevention than on repair and rehabilitation. That is why I am pleased that both the Right and the Christian People's Party support the government parties and the government in the fact that it is important and necessary to maintain a restrictive drug policy in the future as well. The government is committed to identifying, and to intervening with, users of drugs at an early stage, so that measures can be taken reasonably quickly, so that drug use does not become excessive. The government has also shown in the 2011 State budget that strengthening the prevention of drugs and crime is important. We have a coordination, a work, between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We also see that with the Interaction Reform adopted, which is now followed up by a new health and health plan and a new public health law, municipalities are tasked with creating their own drug policy action plans where young girls and young boys live, where the measures can be initiated at an early stage, and where you know people in your community. It also turns out that in those municipalities that have never tried to make such action plans, the results are good. I am also pleased that the government, through its proposal for a State budget, extends the escalation plan by two new years, i.e. until 2012, and a new 100 million. kr in 2011. So there's a $1 billion escalation in drug policy since 2005. It is an important tool, which helps to strengthen drug use in all areas, not least in terms of prevention, but also in terms of rehabilitation and treatment. We want broad and good cooperation on drug policy. That is why we are proposing to include this matter in the Minutes, so that the proposals that have been put forward can be considered in the group to submit its report in June 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1446	In my conversations with drug users and with child-restraint children, it has occurred to me that almost everyone tells me that ‘all’ knew, but nobody did anything. Time and again we can see that we are getting on the track too late. In my municipality we wanted to take the consequences of this. We would therefore adopt the urinalysis project that the Manglerud Police Chamber had used over time, and as they thought it was the most effective instrument they had. Later, I myself saw this in close proximity, because I got to talk to young people who used the offer. A good part belongs to the group that feels a pressure in their friends. It's hard to say no. By participating in the urinalysis, it is easier to say no by being able to show that you have been taken by the police and have to pass urine samples. The guy respects this. Now, several years later, I'm aware that these are adult people who have completed their education. They never touched drugs again. But according to the health nurse, it's more than urine samples. It's about talking to each other, both with the parents and with the youth. Often it's about completely different things than pressure from the gang. Often it's about self-medication, problems at school or at home. Close and close cooperation between several local authorities makes it possible to address the problems faced by young people. When child protection is switched on, it has usually come too far. The chance of success is multiplied when we get in early, as a health sister in my municipality thinks the ur project has shown. And that's what we want. The project was scheduled to cost NOK 500,000 a year, and then we took care of it. We are a fairly large municipality, with 32,000 inhabitants, so the cost was not considered large. In addition, one rescued youth would carry the entire measure financially. I was therefore a little upset by the allegations in the Minister of Health's letter about coercion and other misery. My experience after conversations with people inside the project, police and health station in and around Oslo is that only positive feedback is given. I would like to encourage the Minister of Health to check the measure for himself, in particular because the Minister of Health himself says in his reply to the Committee that ‘we lack good and knowledge-based early intervention methods’ for the target population aged 15-18 years. Another proposal from the Progress Party is to judge young people who are taken for first-time use or possession into an information programme. The idea is from France, which has had this programme for several years. I myself have been in Paris talking to relevant people in the field of drug care and policy, and they were very pleased with the results of their project. The Minister of Justice has talked on several occasions about similar measures rather than treating first-time users as hard-baked criminals. In a debate in the South Thirty and in the News of the Day, 18 June, he again raised this issue, but stressed that it was not a legalisation, which I am pleased to see. In the evening post on the same day, the Minister of Justice says that he has not cleared up his view of the government, but that he has discussed it with the Minister of Health. Based on the Minister of Health's letter to the Committee, it is difficult to see that such a discussion has taken place. At least there is nothing in the answer that suggests that the Minister of Health agrees with the Minister of Justice, and that could be the explanation that the Government parties do not support the proposals. In reply to the committee, however, we can read that the health minister has confidence that the professional bodies assess and select the best tools. Overall, the Progress Party has promoted three concrete proposals to prevent young people from developing serious and long-term drug abuse. For the time being, the kidney recruitment has not stopped at all. We therefore do not want to sit still, but want to extend the arrangements we know to work, and try new arrangements that other countries have found to be good. I am horrified by all the new and young faces I see hanging around places where the purchase and sale of drugs is openly happening. I despair when I read about all the new young people registered in the Nygård Park in Bergen this summer. That is why I support the Stoltenberg Committee when they propose alternative responses for the younger ones. That is why I support the Minister of Justice's similar approach. And that is why the Progress Party is promoting proposals for this precisely today. I want to add that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party yesterday invited drug users, former drug users and interest groups to the Stortinget. We had visits of 50 pieces. Several people reported that they started heroin when they were 13–14 years old. It's very scary. I take up the suggestions from the minority in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1474	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1477	I just want to refer to the representative Kari Kjenaas Kjos’ posts and settings. The right is the co-rapporteur for the proposals put forward. To the representative of Asphjell, who says that the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens can't advance these questions, I just want to say that there's something these young people need, is that a gunner is taking these measures to prevent new young people from getting into a situation where they become addicted. These young people cannot pause their youth while the government is working on a big message. They are young people now, and they need us to take action now to prevent more people from coming into this situation. I feel that these are measures on which there is really quite a broad consensus, and on which it is possible to implement. Then there is no need to wait for a hearing and a big message. For the sake of young people today, one cannot wait for more people to come into this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1486	Proposals have been made for measures aimed at young people who are first taken with drugs, requiring participation in an information programme and a voluntary obligatory programme on regular urine testing. Finally, there is a general proposal for pilot projects against risk groups. In the first place, new proposals on how to meet the very major challenges facing society in relation to an ever-increasing problem of drug use among young people are good. It is very important to take action quickly for the first time when young people are being taken, as proposed here. In the thorough response of the Minister of Health, what is being done in this area is being explained, and much is being done. There are several pilot projects during testing, including: such as has been proposed here – not as the concrete, but as other types of proposals. I myself was in the municipality of Sortland a few days ago, where I was presented for one of the projects carried out in Northern Ireland, a cooperation between the county council and the municipality of Sortland, called Youth in the sweat. It is a project that is also about early efforts and rapid reactions. An important issue that has been raised in the debate is what the Minister for Health refers to in the letter to the Committee, such as: examines whether it would be appropriate to adopt an obligation to participate in an information programme, as one element of a problem issue. The imposition may be correct in some cases, but it is doubtful whether it will have the same effect on all. We have received the report of the Stoltenberg Committee on Drugs and New Drug Policies. This report discusses the type of proposals raised here. The report has now been sent out at a wide consultation, and it will come back to Stortinget in the form of a big message in less than a very long time. I assume the Minister of Health will be able to inform you about it. So I'm not essentially rejecting any of the proposals that have been raised here, but I think they should be seen in a whole context. They should be well anchored in professional environments. The majority is given the opportunity to debate and discuss these possibilities when we get this back in a holistic context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1501	The title of the proposal is to prevent young people from developing drug dependence. The proposal is to launch a pilot project involving the involvement of young people in possession and use of small doses of drugs in an information programme. Proposals request the launch of a national urinalysis system and the launch of pilot projects aimed at risk groups among young people. Today, there is full support from all parties to the intention behind the proposal for action to prevent young people from developing drug dependence. There is also a broad consensus that prevention of drug dependence must start early and take a broad approach. Prevention of drug problems includes, inter alia: Closely related to the prevention of behavioural problems, mental illness, social exclusion and poverty. Prevention efforts in the various areas therefore need to be considered in the context. On the basis of this approach, I react to the fact that the Progress Party, which is the proposer, as the only party in the Committee, is not with us on a note to stress that there is solid evidence to maintain a restrictive alcohol policy which is the most effective way to prevent unwanted use of drugs. Here, we fundamentally disagree on what may be the most important prevention measures in terms of drug use. The Progress Party invites us to a debate on its premises, and it does not therefore deal with the real primary prevention. It shows that the commitment of the Progress Party to drug prevention is not whole-hearted. They are still facing a policy that will increase alcohol consumption in Norway and will make it easier for many people to move towards a drug-trafficking career. Few develop dependence on drugs without going on alcohol. In this case, I would like to refer to the report of the Stoltenberg Committee on Drugs. This has now been sent to the hearing. A wholesale notification shall be made following the report and the consultation. The report addresses several of the issues raised in this draft document. For example, the sample has proposed the creation of multidisciplinary topics that assess measures for those targeted for drug use and possession. It is proposed by the sample that follow-up agreements be generally offered as an alternative to prosecution and observation in the criminal record. This practice is already established in several places in Norway. I share the view that instead of punishing people, they should address the reasons why they have started experimenting with drugs. So to the representatives' proposal to launch a national urinalysis system. In the report of the Stoltenberg Committee you go the other way. The sample reports that in LAR today there is a tradition of regular use of control measures with urine samples, but there is no evidence that urine tests have a better effect or better benefit than other measures. Urine samples — and in particular monitored urine samples — are, according to the sample, a strong control measure that can be seen as strongly integrating and as a signal of distrust. Good treatment should always be based on patient-treatment trust. The report shows that other measures can have the same effect, for example: conversations with patients. I believe that we should not adopt new national systems of urine checks today, while the proposals of the Stoltenberg Committee to withdraw from such schemes are being consulted. Another preventative measure in the report of the Stoltenberg Committee, for which I have a strong sense, is the development of reception and follow-up centres to ensure rapid access to assistance, and the gathering of reception, treatment and long-term individual follow-up in a competent multidisciplinary environment. It is proposed to open own youth centres as part of these MO centres, so that we can have a nationwide offer with reception centres for young people using drugs. Prevention at school has played an important role, and research has shown that this type of prevention has little effect, and we need to look at new methods. Here I agree with what has been said by the opposition, that this should not lead to less prevention in school — the school is a place where we reach all children and young people — and that it is important that non-governmental organisations still have to play an important role in this work through knowledge-based and quality assurance programmes. Otherwise, I support what was said by Geir-Ketil Hansen. I think we need to look at these proposals as a whole, and have respect for the issue that is being discussed – we are all taking advice to get a better drug prevention policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1522	It is an affordable initiative of the representatives of the Progress Party to propose measures to prevent young people from developing drug dependence. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals, because we are concerned with prevention and also that new proposals must be accepted with open arms. Having said that, I have to point out once again that the Progress Party will not accept the fact that the availability and price of alcohol have a clear connection with drug dependence and the extent of harm, which the representative Toppe was also involved in. Alcohol, as everyone knows, is one of the most common drugs of addiction. It is paradoxical that the Progress Party wants to liberalise alcohol policy and increase access to alcohol, which will increase consumption, increase violence and increase health damage, when we examine at the same time proposals for prevention of drug dependence. According to the State Institute for Drug Research (SIRUS), extensive research-based knowledge shows that alcohol abuse and alcohol-related problems are significantly more extensive than drug abuse and drugrelated problems. I would like to point out that there are already good measures to prevent young people from developing drug dependence – in addition to those we are proposing today. The waiver of charges with conditions is a solution with which several municipalities have good experience. This applies to debutants and young users, usually under the age of 18. A survey conducted at the Telemark College shows that eight out of ten repeaters in Norwegian prisons have been in contact with the police as a child. So there is a lot to do on early intervention in this age group. Injury waiver with conditions combines punishment with rehabilitation. This was tested and evaluated in the years 2001–04, and the conclusions were positive. Unfortunately, despite the continuation of the scheme, only 183 persons accepted the waiver of charges under conditions in 2008. There are signs that there is an interest in this only a few places in the country. In an evaluation report from the Swedish Police College, there are a number of assessments that could be taken into account, along with experiences from places such as Ringsaker Länsmannskontoret, Kristiansand and Greenland police stations. Kristiansand municipality has had 150 young people through the youth contract, and seven out of ten have completed without breaking the terms. So here it's a potential. The youth contract supports young people to say no. A contract can help them to continue training, become active job seekers or follow up jobs, leisure activities and drug withdrawal programmes, repair injuries, participate in conflict management and strengthen and maintain ties with family and friends. In addition, they can ensure a firm framework and ensure that young people commit themselves to meeting up to, for example: test. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the system of waiver of charges with conditions should be given increased attention. It's actually a good and complete offer, this with youth contracts. Finally, in the Council's reply of 20 August on the proposal we are examining today, she points out that the Directorate of Health has ‘enforced a more critical assessment of the award of grants to the school programmes of non-governmental organisations, in line with the assessments in the report on prevention efforts at school’. There are several representatives who have been involved today. The Christian People's Party is also very concerned that this should not mean a reduction in drug-prevention efforts in schools, and that non-governmental organisations still have to play an important role in this work through knowledge-based and quality-assured programmes. Finally, I agree with the representative, Höie, that it is incredibly important that we do not fail to initiate new measures because we are going to get a big message. We actually need all the measures we can just get, and more, to help these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1545	It is positive that we have a debate on good measures to prevent young people from developing drug dependence. However, as the Committee notes, much good work is done for young people at risk. The number of young people who claim to have ever used alcohol or drugs is a good measure of whether this work is sufficient and adequate. In recent years, alcohol use among young people has declined. The same is true for drugs, albeit slightly weaker than for alcohol. Drug use is now at a stable low level compared to other European countries. The positive development may mean that we've done a lot right, but we have to get even better. As the proposers point out, sporadic drug campaigns targeting young people have little effect. Research in the drug field from 2003 pointed to the need for knowledge and increased efforts for early intervention. The government is working along this line and is strongly committed to prevention and early intervention. In 2007, a knowledge summary on early intervention in the field of drugs was produced showing which interventions work best. The Health Directorate’s report Early intervention in the field of drugs is based on this knowledge summary. The report proposes a national strategy for the field of drugs, and it has been the starting point for the guide and the initiative from concern to action. This initiative has made systematic efforts to identify effective methods and measures. The measures have been extensively tested at regional level before deciding whether to introduce them nationally. In view of the fact that we are doing well with this extensive effort, I will be withholding from investing in new projects now. The Health Directorate will launch a new website in January 2011 as part of the early intervention effort. The website shall disseminate knowledge and experience of good practice and practices in early intervention. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have recently appointed a working group to investigate alternative responses to minor drug crimes. This was a proposal in the report of the Stoltenberg Committee on Drugs. The working group’s mandate is to rethink responses to drug use and possession. The report shall be delivered by 30 June 2011 and then sent to the hearing. I do not want to pre-empt this work, but wait for the work group to come up with it. The proposers argue for the use of urine testing. They stress that the offer has been important for young people who feel pressured in the circle. That's one side. On the other hand, you might ask whether young people feel pressured to accept such testing and how voluntary it really is. If they refuse, it may soon be perceived as a concession, and the suspicion may be hanging with them. This isn't necessarily a good starting point. I'm not against the use of urine testing if the testing is put into system, but I have basically more faith in trust and dialogue than in control and mistrust. There is a known case that there is active marketing of various urine tests. I do not doubt that the tests are effective, but I am most concerned that any urine testing is part of a complete scheme, and not a single measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1565	At the meeting I mentioned that the Labour Party and the Advance Party had with the drug addicts yesterday, it was among other things. a very young boy, who had a meeting with the Minister of Health one year ago. At that time, the Health Minister told Dagbladet that the youngest should be given priority. Now a year later he's just as ill, just as desperate and equally alone. What does the Minister of Health really think about young people going without help in such a way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1572	It is always very difficult to stand in Stortinget and know which person you are talking about – I find that difficult. But in general, I want to say that many people get help, and that the auxiliaries are busy holding on to those who have entered the auxiliaries. Since this case has been in the media, I would say that it has also been here. Then there's a discussion about what kind of treatment the individual should have. Here we have to be patient enough, try new treatments again and again, and not give up, especially those that are young. In my post, I went through a number of actions that we have focused on, including: in the case of early intervention, these are important measures. But, of course, it's also important to see that many young people actually have quite a lot of experience in the drug environment, and it's not least important to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1584	I need to comment on a few of the posts that have come. Some of them were addressed directly to the Progress Party. First to the Minister of Health, who is afraid that someone might feel pressured to say yes to urine tests, because if you said no, it would be like ‘a confession’ that something had been done wrong. That concession is already on the table. That's basically why you've come so far that you've come into discussion with the borrower to find solutions. The representative Toppe was also in on urine samples, but for some reason she has dragged this in with the LAR. I fully agree with her that all those inside the LAR who are being taken urine samples are being treated with distrust. It's very stressful. Sometimes page abuse is discovered. We had a bad case about it on TV 2 last night, where it turned out that you were just halving the medicine to the person as a punishment, which makes him even more ill. Even I have received enquiries from people I know personally, who when they come to the pharmacy to pick up their methadone, they are told that they will not get anything in the next few days, because their urine sample was not clean. So as far as that piece is concerned, I fully agree, and there I want a broad discussion and a review, but that's not what we have proposed – it's kind of something completely different. With regard to availability and disappointment that the Progress Party does not support the restrictive alcohol policy in the same way as the other parties, I would like to remind you that when 13 and 14-year-olds say that it is easier to obtain hash than it is to obtain alcohol, I think that as far as availability is concerned, it does not have to mean that shops have to close early or that there are few places to buy it, because in principle it should not be possible to get purchased drugs. It should not be available at all, there are no outlets, there are no opening hours; it should not be there. I'm most concerned about how young people get the drugs they're destroying, and I'm very concerned that it's so easy to get hold of drugs. That's what we wanted to focus on in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 779]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1603	We are then ready to go to voting. Statement by the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion on case No. 1 has already been adopted for consideration in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1613	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the attempt to voice electronically outside the polling facilities at the 2011 elections.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1619	Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1641	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:129 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1647	Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1674	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Party of Advancement Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary amendments to the alcohol law allowing producers of alcoholic beverages to inform about their products on their own Internet pages, as the Wine Monopoly has access to.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to the alcohol law allowing the sale and serving of local alcohol.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1703	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to clarify the rules on information on alcoholic products in accordance with the alcohol regulation in order to ensure predictability and equal treatment of operators.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether the sale of alcoholic products by more than 4,75 % vol. may be authorised on farm sales, in the framework of the Vinmonopol scheme and the EEA Agreement.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1735	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The government asks the government to reverse the closure of the pool used for rehabilitation and to reopen those closed.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that no more pool used for rehabilitation is laid down until a new alternative is in place.’ The Right and the Progressive Party support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1766	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that outpatient physiotherapy is also included in the input-driven funding [[ISF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1791	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Alternatively, between these proposals and the setting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a pilot project involving the involvement of young people in possession or use of small doses of drugs in an information programme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a national urinalysis system, where young people who are taken for first possession or use of drugs are offered a contract whereby they undertake regular urine tests.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for pilot projects to be launched in general to address youth risk groups.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-19.ana.ud943e1834	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
