ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e66	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e69	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Tjäldal, Per Roar Bredvold, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the audit obligation for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as changes to the time-limited requirements for keeping accounting documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e74	The representative, Mr Träldal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e77	On behalf of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Per Roar Bredvold, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to tax revenue from forest management as capital income.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e82	The representative, Åse Michaelsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e85	I am delighted, on behalf of the big-time representatives Solvency Horne and myself, to come forward with proposals for the establishment of rehabilitation and reconciliation institutions for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e90	And finally, Mr Halleraker's representative wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e93	I would like to put forward a proposal by the representatives of Lars Myraune, Tage Pettersen, Siri A. Meling, Trond Helleland and myself that an independent, stand-alone road and road traffic control should be set up, which should be responsible for the supervision of roads, road users and vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e99	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e120	There is agreement in Norway that we should have an active protection policy and that it is important that we protect some natural values for our children and grandchildren. Then the question is how to implement this protection policy, what kind of popular control is in the protection policy, and how those administrative bodies, the part of the public that is to implement the protection policy, relate to the interests that are being affected. For the Right, of course, private ownership is important. Private property is a foundation for the creation of value in Building Norway. Private value creation has resulted in resources being managed in a good and proper way over the centuries. A combination of the protection and use of landowners within nature's tolerance limits by landowners has made it possible to maintain and safeguard values for future generations. What we're afraid of is that the balance is now going crazy, and that the balance is going crazy without the elected ones, i.e. we who sit in this room, and those who sit out in the local government, are getting enough permission to join in and preface the developments that are taking place. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has said that Norway is cracking. He has pointed out that there is a growing distinction between a kind of bureaucratic-political governance system and perceptions outside the people. I think he has something right in it. I think very many in this room when they're traveling, feel that there's growing frustration and irritation out there, especially outside the larger cities, among people who feel that the bureaucratic-political apparatus instead of being a counterpart has become an opponent, among people who feel that there's too much rigidity, too much bureaucracy, too much arrogance in the system. In particular, it is a problem if parts of the administration act as self-employed actors and make decisions based on judgement rather than on policy guidelines. An illustrative example may be non-interventional natural areas, which are a structure used for extensive protection but which are not sufficiently politically anchored. It could almost be tempting to say that they are not politically anchored. That kind of instrument weakens the government itself in the worst cases. The starting point for this interpellation is a local matter from Telemark, but it involves much more. This is the management plan for the protection areas of Hardangervidda. I want to spend some time on this local matter, mainly because I think it is illustrative for a larger problem complex. I would also like to stress that in this case there is a broad political environment behind the criticism. The landowners of Hardangervidda are known to be overrun in the submitted new management plan for the wide-ranging protection areas. I quote from Telemarksavias on 4 September this year, where landowners tell of the treatment they have received from the Directorate for Nature Management: "There has been a bad process in the previous work on the plan. DN has not been interested in the opinion or the requirements of the owner. They have, however, been arrogant, among other things by failing to respond to letters, says Johan Vaa, who himself has carried them in the pen." So they describe a process in which both landowners and local elected representatives are not heard and listened to. They draw attention to the fact that a fairly broad majority of the Grand Duchy has said that it should be possible to combine growth and protection. In other words, there should be a possibility of rational use of protected areas. The majority of the population said, among other things: through the so-called mountain text – not in the previous magnification period, but in the period before it – that there should be a moderate use, i.e., within the capacity of nature to try to combine the path of protection with the rights of landowners, but also the ability to develop the areas and to live on it, to maintain nourishment and scattered settlement. In this specific case, it is such that the Directorate for Nature Management informed that no political signals had been received that intensification would take place. There was no reason, said the Directorate of Nature Management early in the case, to say that there was a need to tighten up the regulations on the use of the site. But then, however, one experiences – landowners and municipalities – that when the submissions first come, there is intensification on incision. I would like to stress that these are not landowners or local elected representatives who want free movement and free movement. It's not like you want the right to go ahead like you want in one of the most beautiful natural areas we have in Norway. There are moderate demands on building size, i.e. a little decoration, a moderate liberalisation of what kind of construction is allowed to build, the clearing of opportunities to build outhouses, the change in resource requirements in connection with the naust, etc. So both municipalities and owners feel that the Directorate for Nature Management does not listen, does not belong, and even – in their opinion – goes across what is the policy guidelines. So you can probably object that these aren't new tones from the Right, this is talking right about at all intersections. We are, of course, almost under-implemented by the programming obligation to believe that the landowners in Norway are under-performing, and that there is too much bureaucracy and too much protection from above. That is why it is important that in this specific case, as in many other cases around the country, there is a broad political majority in favour of matters specifically involving the Directorate for Nature Management. One of the people who have been very involved in this matter is SV's capable and good rapporteur in Vinje Municipality, Arne Vinje, who describes the process and the relationship with the Directorate of Nature Management in exactly the same way – albeit in a slightly different way – as I have done today. After all, it is worth asking the Council of State – I should not ask if he has control in his own party – whether it can be that when you are a rapporteur in a geographically large municipality, but a municipality with few people, in Telemark, the world looks a little different from where you are in the department offices in Oslo. Another person who has been involved in the debate about the Directorate of Nature Management is the head of the Workers' Party in the Business Committee, Terje Aasland. He said it so strongly at a meeting with Telemark Bondelag a few months ago that the Directorate for Nature Management mixes policy and management in protective and predatory game. It's a serious accusation from one of the red-greens' own politicians. And I don't think he's alone about it. That accusation often comes. Then there are two questions that I would like the Council of State to answer. Firstly, how can you ensure that when the Directorate of Natural Management enters into processes where you need to cooperate with the municipalities and have dialogue with local landowners, you do it in a way that is not perceived as arrogant? What kind of guidelines does the Directorate for Nature Management have to deal with in such cases? My question No. 2 goes into the specific matter that we have here, which is now under consideration. Only after there was media attention around it, in the great and well-readst newspaper Vest-Telemark Blade, which I expect you to subscribe to also in the department, did the Directorate of Nature Management call the landowners and the local parties again to a meeting. Will the Council of State be willing to look at the matter again? Now it has not yet been concluded – if the Directorate for Nature Management, as they signal in Telemarksavias on 4 September, has nothing to give in the matter: ‘We would hardly be able to adopt anything, but clarify any misunderstandings.’ This was after the papers came. Will the Council of State be willing to look at the matter again – engage in real dialogue with landowners and local politicians to see if any of the very moderate requirements, very reasonable requirements, which they have tried to promote, can be met?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e163	Let me start by making sure that I don't have control of my own party in any way – and I didn't even have control over it in the ten years I was a party leader. So Arne Vinje is free to speak, and I also hope that the Right Local Leaders are free to speak without any partisan from Oslo. I think that is commendable in all parties. Otherwise, I am in favour of a debate on this issue. There is therefore a broad consensus on the protection policy in Norway. The 1993 National Park Communication and subsequent communications in this area confirm a fairly broad consensus. But the Hardanger range has always created a debate. I must remind you that it was with two votes that the national assembly of the Workers' Party was being protected by Hardangervidda. Jens Stoltenberg keeps coming back to this. I think there are very few today who believe that Gro Harlem Brundtland was wrong that time. The large majority agree with what she did, and she also said at the time, at the national meeting of the Workers' Party in May 1977: I have no doubt that we hardly have any other area in South Norway as it is so desirable to protect as Hardangervidda. If the interests of nature protection are ever to prevail before the wishes of development in our mountain areas, this should be the case in Hardangervidda. So what we're discussing today is one of the most important Gro Harlem Brundtland created. Without pushing party politics too far, I can remind you that right then was a brake pad. If the Right had got its view through in Stortinget, we would have a much less extensive protection on Hardangervidda, and I don't see the Right very much out there and market that view with pride today – but there's Red Isaacen having an opportunity to do that, if he wants it. The fact that one has once protected an area does not mean that the themes and conflicts end. There are many big and small themes that are important for the community, of course: Where should it be opened for driving? Where can it be parked? And as the Red Isaac was saying, How great can a superstructure be? All these themes must be the subject of ongoing discussion, and it is among the issues to be addressed in the management plan that is now being revised. Let me stress that the management plan can never be an arena for rematching the framework and content of the protection; the framework and content are provided by the Stortinget, and it is established by nature diversity law and by protection regulation – and it is up to the local actors and also the Directorate of Nature Management to deal with, until the Stortinget sets other frameworks, if necessary. But there is, of course, flexibility within those frameworks, and it must be the theme of the discussion here today. So it's very central to the red-green parts that protecting an area is not the same as being out of activity. Protected areas shall be a local community resource and shall provide a basis for local value creation, both at times in national parks directly and of course in the form of tourism and other industries closely linked to the protection policy. I have repeatedly, in Stortinget and in other ways, made it clear that I believe that everyone in charge of protection in Norway should not manage it on the basis of a millimeter of justice, not be – to use the word of Røe Isaksen – rigid and bureaucratic, but manage it on the basis of what is the root cause of protecting an area. That is what needs to be protected, and that must be the starting point for protection. So you can be flexible on less important issues that don't go into the core area. There we have shown a much greater flexibility than previous governments and said this very clearly into the devices. And of course, at times it can be difficult for all the devices to deal with this in a precise way, because there are so many local considerations to be made. We have also contributed to a natural heritage value creation programme, which means that we will get more local anchoring and more commercial activity out of classical nature protection. And the red-green government is now putting up with local security agencies — once again an innovation — which will enable local interests within the framework of national leadership to manage national parks. But whatever we do from the centre, it is a demanding task to reconcile the interests locally, it is a demanding task to make good management plans, and it is a demanding task to maintain the relationship between reasonable and unreasonable local desires versus the national and sometimes international protection values. These assessments shall be made on the basis of knowledge, the precautionary principle and the principle of overall loading. But we will never get there that there are no differences of opinion about these issues, both centrally, in the Storting and locally, in the environments that live in and around protected areas. The fact that not everyone gets an impact on all their views does not mean that there have been bad processes or that the Directorate for Nature Management takes too little account of recordings and advice. I distance myself from the tendency we increasingly see from the Right, to make the Directorate of Nature Management and some other underlying agencies into chicken for policy purposes. I jogged to Stortinget this morning, and then I heard a very good post from the Right Vice-Chairman, Bent Höie, in Political Quarter. I would suggest that the Right press and send by e-mail to all of its staging representatives – if they don't, I'd like to do the practical part of the job myself – because it was basically a very important defence of the rights of the underlying agencies to express their views. Now it probably helped well that the starting point was that the health director and education director had come up with views that the Right agreed to, but the test of acceptance for the freedom of expression of the underlying agencies is when one disagrees with what they say. When the right then agrees with the education director and the health director, this must also have the consequence that when the Directorate for Nature Management expresses an opinion – or when the national product expresses an opinion – one must resolutely defend the right of these agencies to express these opinions. Otherwise, this becomes meaningless. I believe that all parties here should think through their principal points of view: either you accept that the underlying floors do this, or you don't accept it. And I think to those degrees we're earned that underlying agencies have an opportunity to present their positions, and then it's up to government and greatness to make the necessary compromises. This government has, for example: not followed up all the recommendations made by the Directorate for Nature Management in the field of motor travel to take an example. But we're earned with the professional input from the different directorates. If, at times, the Directorate of Nature Management was to be perceived by local interests as arrogant and bureaucratic, I would like to send a recommendation to the Directorate to look at this, see if there are things in the way that can be improved. Each criticism is a good one and a spur to improve, but the Storting should protect the rights of the underlying agencies to make their views known and their right to participate in various processes in a good way. I don't have any grounds for criticism by the Directorate for Nature Management, but I'm going to ask the Directorate to evaluate for myself whether any of the recordings that are coming are something you should take over. Finally, I would like to add that both the Ministry of the Environment and the Directorate of Nature Management have met with the Hardangervidda Committee of Rapporteurs on the work on the revision of the management plan. Representatives of the Hardanger range of landowners also participated in the meeting with the Directorate. The Directorate will continue the dialogue, where the aim is to find good and agreed solutions. I am in constant contact with the Directorate of Nature Management in this matter, and I can assure you that the management plan will be within the framework of the Natural Diversity Act and the Protection Regulation. But based on the points of view that the Red Isaac came here, of course, I'm going to go into this matter myself and look at the material that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e192	First, I have to say that there are certainly many examples that parties have made mistakes over the years. The government's own party has, for example, They have always been very critical of the oil and gas industry in Norway, but they have never had any problem using the money from there. It might be something that, today, when you enjoy the oil billions, you're going to think was a crazy decision. Then I have to say that I am very happy that the Council of State will look at this specific matter. But at the same time, I think the Council of State avoids the central issue to a little too much and does not go into what is at the heart of the matter. This is not about the freedom of expression of the Directorate for Nature Management. I can be provoked by what the director of DN says, but that's not the question. They're in charge of a code. And it's even so that when the Directorate of Nature Management is finished, the only appeal body is the Department, i.e. that the Council of State itself intervenes and overrides the Directorate of Nature Management. It is, in my opinion, quite special, and that also means that if the department does not actively engage in these matters, landowners, local politicians and local stakeholders have no appeal board. With today's system, the Directorate for Nature Management assumes that there is an active department that also enters and governs politics, because in this case it is actually about political governance and political signals. The second issue is these – what to call it – concepts, or these concepts, which do not have political anchoring. I mentioned, for example: Intervention-free natural areas, which are not politically anchored, and which have far-reaching implications for protection policy in Norway, but which have not been anchored in political assemblies. It does not just right, but e.g. Labour party politicians in this room – the head of the Business Committee – say that the Directorate for Nature Management mixes policies and management. It must be a major problem for the Council of State if it is such that the Directorate of Nature Management from the Red-Greens own ranks is accused of running politics. Not least, there is a problem of legitimacy in the protection processes. Then I just want to say one thing in the end, and that's that one in other areas, for example. Brattefjell – Vindeggen, has found more pragmatic and more sensible solutions. Now I haven't gone into detail and looked at whether there's anything about the exact area that suggests that you, for example. have some more liberal rules for the construction of houses, or construction, but it's so that more pragmatic solutions have been found in this area. That means that it's possible, but here it seems that the treatment has unfortunately been quite arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e203	Let me first say that finding the flawless part is probably about as difficult as finding the flawless person. It would at least be a party that would certainly exist for a very short time. In the case of oil and gas policy, I am not aware that SV should ever have been opposed to oil and gas leakage in Norway. I'm going to go so far as to admit that we've probably been more eager to spend some of this money than to earn them. But the party that has the biggest problem in oil and gas policy is the Right, who from Kåre Willoch's days every day and hour said that Norway has to become less oil dependent by getting a broader economic base. But at all crossroads where it was possible to make Norway more oil dependent, right on the barricades was to make us more oil dependent. It's not related, but it's a different debate. As I see it, there are two fundamental issues in relation to the underlying agencies, for example. Directorate for Nature Management. One is, are they to be allowed to express professional views from their point of view, even if these are not necessarily shared by political leadership? My answer to that is: Yes. I believe that everything else is very dangerous, and that everything else is not in line with what you call the spirit of time -- the openness that I'm sure Red Isaac and I share. But it cannot mean that political leadership must necessarily agree with the points of view that arise. Here I think the Stortinget would have been better served by being more principleal, because while the Right and Bent Höie today, in an excellent way, argued in principle why it was important for the education director and health director to comment on municipal structure, one is on the barricades every time one dislikes an opinion or a professional position from the Directorate of Nature Management and wants to put oral baskets on it – not in this interpellation, but in many other cases. As soon as the rickshaw was out with important points of view on Bjørvika, the Progress Party would have mouthpiece. It won't be in principle for me. I invite the Storting to consider in principle whether it is not beneficial that the professional views come up. So the next question is, does that mean that political leadership can't overtake them? Well, of course, I mentioned motor racing as a good example. The Directorate for Nature Management has presented, from its professional point of view, a plan for motor travel in the countryside that we believe is too rigid, and which does not correspond to the compromise we must have between the protection of Norwegian nature and people living in the districts of Norway, the opportunities of disabled people to get into nature and many other important purposes. So we have to find a compromise here. The Riksantikvar is another example. He has come up with views on Bjørvika and on a number of other issues, Builddy and much more, which are not necessarily shared by me and the government. But I think it is very important that these points of view emerge, and that has led to a refreshing debate on past memories, cultural memories and taking care of the old in Norway, which I think everyone has really enjoyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e214	I don't think I'm going to follow up the fundamental debate that State Council Solheim drew up on the underlying etats' right to speak. But there is no doubt that in matters of protection, roll-out and management, etc., there is a tension between the state with the directorate and often the county's environmental department on the one hand, and local actors and interests on the other. That is why I think it is very good that, through an interpellation debate, we have to discuss this and focus our search light on these matters. Different governments have protected large areas in the country over time, and even though the Right wasn't so keen on the Hardanger range, at least Right's Environment Minister Børge Burnde was a positive exponent in order to obtain the necessary protection. There were important protection decisions to secure these areas for the future. This management, as pointed out here, shall be conducted in accordance with the laws of nature, protection regulations and guidelines. Here, of course, the Directorate for Nature Management has a very important role to play: to ensure that the foundation for protection is at the bottom, that the intention is reached, that the safeguard decision is implemented. Of course, it is not easy to be able to do this at the same time as being popular. Therefore, there are often discussions about this. It does not only apply to Hardanger, it applies in the field of protection in general. Of course, this cannot be just a government process – neither the creation of protection areas nor the revision and roll-out of the management plan. There are therefore extensive procedural rules on how this should be done. One should be open, inclusive, all parties should be involved, it must be a cooperation with fundamental owners, lawyers, business interests, representatives of the local population, throughout the region – i.e. a comprehensive process. It must be that the hearings and cooperation are real, so that they are not only heard, but have a real impact, and that they take into account what local interests come into this context. I'm completely confused that the best protection comes into play in an interaction between local interests, i.e. the local population in the municipalities, user interests, the outdoors, yes, all local actors, together with state protection interests. It's very important, what the Council of State calls here, that a lot of time must have some sense in this, a lot of time must go in and see what's the basis for protection. The activities, the actions, shall not destroy the purpose of the protection, but shall be opened for activities that are consistent and in line with the protection. The interpellant indicated that, in the context of the management plan for the protection area, municipalities and landowners have felt overrun by DN. Whether they're run over, or whether they feel that way, I don't know, but it's definitely not good that it gets experienced this way. Please state that it has our meeting with spokesmen, etc. Of course, as I said, it's important that one shows respect for the work of DN. But when the state intervenes in large areas around and protects, it is also the responsibility of the state to handle the processes and ensure that local interests are taken care of. I've seen the same conflict, for example. in connection with the rolling of the Rondane Management Plan, with proposals to prevent one at Hövringen from being allowed to run up ski runs, preventing teachers from taking school classes on their way into the mountain area. The process was greatly improved. Here, DN actually showed that they were responsive, and one came up with reasonably good solutions, even though we might be asking for reason when one, for example. shall refuse the provision of a overnight accommodation bo for the purpose of ensuring that a person is able to do his or her job in the protection of his or her protected areas. While we have extended the protection and number of national parks, we have said that municipalities must take advantage of this protection. But it has often not been so easy to do. Here's two things. It's that one has to open up for activity, and one has to give money to it. Here the government has really gone ahead with a local administration model and a value creation program.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e235	First, I have to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important issue that concerns many, both municipalities and individuals. Local politicians in particular notice that the authority to determine the area of the municipality is not in the local government but in the general government. No local politician can say with his hand that he has not experienced being overrun either by the State Environmental Protection Department or by the Ministry of the Environment in matters of planning and protection. Local self-government can best be described as non-existent. In most cases, decisions are based on opinions of the Directorate for Nature Management. One or two case handlers from the directorate have visited the area and, after a short visit, they can give their opinion very clearly. Then it is completely irrelevant what the Building Council or Municipal Council has previously decided. Even I have my education from this subject. In addition, I have over 30 years of experience as a consultant, technical manager, building manager and local politician in the field of planning and protection. I'm not exaggerating when I say that the arrogance of power shown by the superior authorities in matters of planning and protection that I know of is absolutely incredible. They are behind the explanation that these are national guidelines decided by policymakers. The ingenuity of justifying negative decisions in planning and protection matters is very high. Who hasn't read that the case has been dismissed because the measure can be seen from the sea, from the highway, forms silhouette, doesn't fit into the settlement, punctuates the landscape? Recently, the reason is often that it can harm biodiversity in the area. I consider the overrun of local decisions in planning and protection matters from senior agencies to be the greatest danger of a complete disappearance of the interest in local policy. How to make young people interested in politics when local democracy is constantly being overrun is the big question. In this room, only the Progress Party and the Right are willing to reduce the power of superior bodies over local politicians. By the spring 2009–2010, we had a debate on reducing the influence of the state on coastal planning. Only the Progress Party and the Right view it as a problem that local politicians are still being overrun. I am surprised that the government parties, with the Workers' Party at the head, do not see problems in the fact that the Directorate of Nature Management and other bodies are still overstepping local decisions. Who is particularly affected by the repeal of local decisions? In very many cases, the usual local population does not receive an application. They mediated, as the government will often stop, manage to either build or buy properties, while the least-intermediated losers. Both the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party, which are claiming to be the defender of the steady man, do absolutely nothing to cut the wings of all master organs in planning and protective matters. The Progress Party does not want to move forward freely in these matters, but we want municipal areas to be able to be used for what local politicians decide. Local politicians know their municipality best. The fact that during a short visit one or two people will be able to form a clear picture of the matter is very doubtful. I end by asking the rhetorical question: how long will all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party and the Right, work against local democracy and the local population in matters of planning and protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e254	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen addresses an important issue with regard to the management of the management plan by the Directorate for Nature Management at Hardangervidda. It is important to note that many municipalities and landowners believe that the Directorate for Nature Management takes too little account of recordings and advice. Yesterday, I asked the Council of State about an exciting attempt at land-owned management in Valdres. In the case of the extension of the Ormtjerkkamp national park, DN has also taken decisions that go beyond the wishes of the landowners, and in that case, it has actually also gone against recommendations from the county. Private ownership is deeply rooted in Norwegian culture and in people's consciousness. At the same time, it is a great acceptance that we have an obligation to take care of the environment, so that future generations can have the same joy and benefit of what we have today. Right is a strong defender of private ownership, and as a conservative party, it is also essential to take care of the values and natural qualities that have been cultivated through generations. Therefore, it is also crucial to avoid people feeling reticent about public governance, and to ensure that citizens have a real impact both on the development and enforcement of land policies. This applies both locally and nationally. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of issues and where the Directorate for Nature Management acts more like a political actor than a trades union director who makes an unscrupulous statement about his position, but there is always a professional basis for it. Right looks very seriously at this because it helps to create a conflict between the government and the citizens, and it all loses. The director of the directorate went, among others. for direct political attacks on the State Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Energy in connection with the announcement of blocks of oil and gas operations in the mature area of the socket, without a professional basis. In my view, the attack was marked by the DN-director's own political agenda. The director of the directorate has also claimed that the climate situation is far worse than the UN Panel concludes. First of all, this is an area outside the Directorate's professional responsibility. Secondly, it is a subject area with very complex contexts and where there is a great deal of dissatisfaction in the professional environments. We also see that the Directorate for Nature Management's management of predatory policies creates major conflicts in many parts of the country. Here too, doubts are raised as to whether it is the Storting's decisions that weigh more heavily, or whether there are other considerations that prevail. I must say it was a strange experience when the Energy and Environment Committee visited DN in Trondheim, and was met by a powerful attack on a party leader and a government council criticizing DN. It was a provocative confidence and arrogance that, in my view, should have had a strong adjustment. It is very serious when, on the basis of a one-sided opinion, the directorate uses its administrative authority to propose or implement dramatic measures that go beyond other important societal considerations, such as local self-government, basic ownership of its ownership or important industrial development. One important reason why this can happen is that environmental and land management are currently very centralised. State bodies may, in most respects, oversee local self-government in land matters. Therefore, it is positive that the new nature default law facilitates more local management. This makes sense because it gives room for both larger local self-government and local priorities. I hope that it doesn't work as in other reforms, that larger local self-government ends up with letters of expectation from government agencies. Governments have an important role to play in creating cooperation and trust between citizens and government agencies in the administration. This applies not least to the Directorate for Nature Management. I hope that the Minister will take this challenge constructively, and look forward to several useful discussions on public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e271	The debate on the role of government in the social debate is important, and I hope that we will have a chance at a later opportunity to go into it more broadly. Here, I think there's a big difference between administration as a knowledge base -- commenting on issues that are challenged -- and the administration of administration, as one has in some areas. In that role, there is a need for a coherent policy approach. It's important to underline. When Stortinget dealt with new natural handicaps, there was a mass surge behind the desire to increase the focus on a better local anchoring of national protection. It is about highlighting the experience-based knowledge of the local population. It is about ensuring greater local involvement in administration, and not least the chance of using protected areas, in a resilient way – for the development of nutrition. It was hoped that in practice, government administrations too have just brought up a good dialogue, thorough processes and agile legislation to meet these objectives. Then the dialogue is important, but the process is only real when the recording is taken seriously and accepted, if they do not break fundamentally with the purpose of the protection. Sustainable use is the best protection, and protection policy cannot be closed without a player on a team with those who have lived in and managed these areas for generations. Unfortunately, we still have examples that landowners and communities are not being listened to in some cases. The inter-pellant should be grateful for lifting the specific matter, but also the issue. So it's right to point out that this is not something that has arisen under this government. It wasn't quite a different situation when the previous government put in a series of new areas of protection around our country. So I think this is a common political challenge. The distance between people and government powers is increasing when a rigid state code wins over local national consciences and solutions that have a broad understanding and support in the local environment and among local populace. Mistrua to the administration is getting stronger, and landowners and local people experience considerable support among their local politicians, their local people elected – including prominent government spokesmen – but then they meet the wall of state administration at the level of detail. By that I don't say that one should go into a practice where a break with basic leads for the purpose of protection if there are sole owners or others who want it. My impression is that very often when landowners, local authorities and local people come together about solutions and adaptations, they are worth listening to. Often there are better solutions than those that are designed in offices far away from these areas. The red-green government has introduced the system of local administration. It's a very important step towards achieving the goals that I've mentioned before. We must continue to work actively to strengthen the local administration of protected areas. It is important for the legitimacy of protection, for administration, and it is important for local democracy. I'm happy with the way the council meets this specific case, saying that here a search for solutions, encourage the directorate to look for solutions that can only be found locally. We know that the desire to take care of important natural values can be completely closed only if a partner and player is involved with those who live and feed in the areas under protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e284	It was very tempting to comment on the debate on whether you are ashamed of your political ancestors or not. I have to say, as Mrs Left, that I cannot think of anything that I am ashamed of as the Left has stood for, whether it was Castberg, Knudsen or Røiseland, nor voting in this area. But I can say it so that socialists who have learned from history are always much better than socialists who have only learned from books – it's always to be preferred. I also want to comment on a debate on local democracy. Some people believe that all welfare systems should be organised by the state and through a piece price, but that is very much for local democracy when it suits them – that's what it's said. We in the Left also support the freedom of expression of all the Heads of State and Government – what it should be – in their field of competence, of course. That's how we bring the societal debate forward, and that's how you get good debates based on knowledge. Maybe that's a little bit of the topic today. Taking care of the diversity of species is not just a local management task – it is actually an international responsibility that we have. It's an international responsibility that we're going to take care of, and there's no reason why we're going to appear to be too heavy a promise when we see how many countries with few resources are able to take that promise. Some species have areas of life that are threatened; some of them have areas of life that are under pressure. That's why it's our job as a national Parliament to take care of these species. That means that we also have to be willing to pay for the job for those who want to make it practical. We have a great responsibility both to reach the 4.5 pst. target in the forest and the responsibility we have for predators. Then I realize that frustration is great, so great that one of the government parties was running election campaigns on a break and really won the government, sail if it happened in silence. If we're going to be able to make this work in the future, I'm very much in agreement with everyone that it needs to be a much bigger dialogue, but it also needs to be much more competent. Obviously, a school class can destroy. A landowner from a family who owns the area for eight generations can destroy if he doesn't know. These protection projects can also be a major boost in bringing knowledge of how to manage these areas and developing national natural use strategies. It is quite clear that a lot of green business can be developed in relation to the protection areas, which we have not been triggered today. In order to trigger the values of these futures, it is also necessary to build competences locally – the dialogue and knowledge must be brought down. Then maybe DN's knowledge has to be combined with the knowledge you get from knowing a natural area under the skin, into the soul and into the heart, and that it's also a competence that government has to take over. It's probably too many areas that we haven't done it. Then I just want to raise one thing: it's not just in district municipalities or in scattered areas you have protection interests. We also have many small, very valuable protection areas, which are located in densely populated areas. We are well now in one of the municipalities in the country – if not that municipality – with the greatest diversity of species, namely Oslo. It is a major challenge to address the diversity of species in densely populated areas and in municipalities where land is very expensive, where fighting for protection interests can be a great burden. That's what I think we're going to take because we have international responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e306	We see today that conflicts around protective matters are greatest in the area where local knowledge and local tradition and use are being overestimated. I want to go so far as to claim that the provision for a successful protection is precisely that local knowledge will be taken into account both in the design of the protection purpose and as a basis for care further. Very often, use and care over many generations has made construction, plant or land so valuable that the community wants to protect the object for the future. But too rarely is it considered to allow the object to live on an active life without binding protection, but with a clear regard to values. But the basic hold is that protection is the solution to most things, it looks like. It is too often also that if the protective object is given a word to be just protective, it begins to mature. The reason is that one feels that the right of disposal has been removed, afraid of impositions and that one is being subjected to a bureaucracy that is not capable of taking up the fight against it. The Progress Party raises major questions about the scope of protection and protection regimes, which often lead to an extremely costly and inappropriate bureaucracy, and in other words a costly brake on the development of viable rural and community communities. Bonding and restrictions characterize management, and when DN acts as they do too often, it creates conflicts. The Directorate of Nature Management is all too often, in my opinion, cross the border and pursue policies, along with the example of Røe Isaksen. Other examples are not hard to find either. It does not strengthen security at all. We also find it within predatory management, where parts of District Norway are now in full rebellion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e320	I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing about an important topic. This is about having local anchoring for the best possible protection of nature and the environment. Both landowners and the municipalities concerned have important contributions to make, and they should have a stronger position in these processes in the coming years, because both landowners and municipalities are based on a long tradition and a deep sense of responsibility that has shown that they are able to produce exactly the protection values that we want to take care of today. So this too has become a debate by the Council of State addressing the discussion of the underlying agencies. According to the rhetoric of the Council of State, if you wish, and in the worst sense, you can interpret the Council of State as saying that when you agree with the underlying agencies, but that you should not say from a political point of view when you disagree, as in this case, with the Directorate of Nature Management. I think it's an unintended effect of the Council of State to put up the debate that way, because I think the Council of State actually believes that one should also be allowed to say from when one disagrees, and that is what we are doing from the Parliament's pulpit today. The right has full confidence in the professional integrity of the underlying institutions. It has to be clear about that. What's the point on our part is to stress the political responsibility, the political responsibility, the governance of the underlying agencies. That's why this case belongs at Stortinget, and that's why the matter is being raised right here. I had the pleasure of using large parts of the summer to visit municipalities, talk to landowners throughout the country just about what is the starting point of this interpellation, to get practical examples of how to experience this locally in meeting with nature and protection authorities, to what extent you are being cared for as both local authority and as a landowner, or not being cared for. It is with regret to report that the Ministry of State, with the underlying offices, does not cut very high — on the contrary, the feedback is unambiguous: this government has been less widely consulted and more and more overrun. I can give an example of how this can be carried completely wrong. It was in a state – to put it that way – in the northern part of the kingdom where a landowner wanted to repair a fist, but was denied by that county. They problemed this and got a look in the local view. I was informed a few days later that the owner of the property had been called from the office to the company and asked him to apply again, so I might see if he could handle the matter anyway. It underlines some of the points of the Right, that natural, environmental and land management must be anchored locally in democratic bodies, not at the discretion of bureaucracy, as this history and this example show. There is also the background to the fact that, a few days ago, a proposal for a representative has just been tabled to strengthen both ownership and local self-government, because we believe that it serves both nature and environmental protection and not least local development that this work is more firmly anchored locally in democratic bodies, not in bureaucracy, and that landowners are given greater scope to exercise active ownership and an active and sustainable management of their properties. That's the best thing for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e337	I want to thank the interpellant for the commitment, which I very much appreciate. The point is, of course, the consideration of local views, in many cases, the consideration of people in rural areas who have a high level of involvement and a high level of competence in the matter. My good friend Arne Vinje is such an example – a person who has great political experience, high theoretical education and long life experience, and who lives in the reality that one here will find the compromise between human activity and the preservation of long-term values. What's really at the heart of the interpellant's posts is the respect you have to exercise toward these people. We're not talking about people with a tradition where one rages, where one abuses nature. No, we're talking about a respect for the people who've been in front of us to make sure that these very values are respected. So we're talking about people who have always had a view of private property rights that is so that private property rights are followed by obligations. So these are not classic right-wing people we're talking about here. We're talking about the opposite. We're talking about people in rural areas who have been a bully against extreme politics, because one is thus restricting private property rights. These people feel and have long felt, regardless of whether the council's name is Solheim, Burnde or Hareide, that the values they have are being undermined – yes, it's being viewed as less valuable. The culture that lies in what I am saying here is so rooted in political decisions and a strong state with all its underlying bodies, acting in such a way that conflict is more common than dialogue in how to manage the areas of protection. It's deeply tragic. That is what I have said in a chronicle in Dagbladet that is an example of Norway cracking. We've developed an Oslo elite. They do not represent many, but they represent a view that is such that now a capital and a capital culture to govern Norway does not represent the whole of Norway. This is bound to go wrong. We need to have a change, so that what the representative Skei Grande spoke about, competence, comes out, and that one might realize that, for example, Arne Vinje and the competence he represents, or 8th-generation farmers, who have a view of values that is far, far more anchored than what this Oslo elite has in terms of nature management, can be lifted up as heroes. Nature and Youth once had a leader named Lars Haltbrecken. He said at the time that he was the leader of Nature and Youth that he went in for the highest level of coniferous protection. There was a lot of debate in the nature conservation community. But then the then NU leader Lars Haltbrecken stood on it: It was actually possible to chop a bush within a coniferous shelter if it was done in the right way. It's a life experience that many of us living in the countryside, seafaringly, can agree to, because that's the way it is. But today you can't cut a bush in the coniferous protection, because it's a threat to coniferous protection – seafaringly. Then the practice reacts, which understands nature, which has a long life experience, which can red-listed species, and which can the theory. But something that is more important: they can practice. I thank you for the interpellation. I know this is going to be a fight. The Oslo-elite does not surrender without Røe Isaacen and several of us allying and turning that view back.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e352	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic affecting many communities in large parts of Norway. The fact that we have a conflict of state authorities versus local authorities has been expressed in several cases lately. Among other things, we've had a discussion about the powerlines in Hardanger. It says something about the importance of a broad local anchoring of decisions, and that processes are being run by government authorities that support good dialogue, so that good solutions can be found despite the fact that the case can initially be conflicted. Then I also think that the post to the representative Lundtegen was very good. I hope the representative will continue to talk about these matters – he has done so in the past and will probably continue in the future – and that he will also get more hearing within the red-green government, because there we really need a counter-measure against the policy being pursued today and, unfortunately, we believe from the Right, undermine both private property rights and local self-determination. There is largely cross-political agreement on the importance of protection. I also believe that most parties agree that the best form of protection is to have a solid local anchoring and understanding of protection. Then, of course, the challenge is to run processes and get solutions that support local anchoring. I appreciate Solheim's words that protecting not initially means no to all activity. It is important to keep that principle very high on protection issues. That we must have purpose in terms of protection must be the most important thing. Then we need to be able to find good pragmatic solutions in relation to activity in the area, which will always be important for both landowners and communities. We on the Right believe that the best form of protection is often that one can use and exploit areas. It has recently been in the media, for example: in my own home country, Rogaland, several examples of both landowners and local government who feel overrun on a case-by-case basis. It's very unfortunate, not least in relation to gathering a stir up about protective purposes. These challenges need to be taken seriously. I fully agree with what has been said earlier in the debate that in many ways this is about political governance from the various Councils. With an example in relation to the Directorate of Nature Management, I also hope that the Council of State of Solheim will see that it is a good idea to engage in a thorough dialogue with this department, considering how their work is perceived in the municipalities. We in the Committee on Energy and the Environment have had budgetary hearings at these times, in which case several of the stakeholders in the energy and environmental field have taken up the situation of the local protective regimes currently under construction. I just want to say that it's great that the government is adding up to local security agencies, and that this way one gets control more locally around the municipalities. But it's not just to pass on the task, it also has to track resources on the load, so that local security agencies can do their job. Several parties believe that it has not been organised in the 2011 budget. I hope that the process towards final decisions can change this, so that local security agencies can actually get resources at their disposal. We need to use the whole country, we need to use the districts. The value creation of districts is often based on the natural resource base they have, and if we are to create value across the country, it is important that we get good processes in terms of protection, and good solutions that landowners and communities can live with, which enable us both to protect and ensure development throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e371	I want to take this opportunity to thank you for what I think has been a very good debate. Normally it would really be in alliance with local SVs and the representative Lundtigen made me a little uncomfortable, but in this particular situation I think it means that we're into something that's important and right. I also have to say that I think the representative Lundtigen is right in saying that these are not "classical Right People", but there are more and more of those who consider it to be, if it continues as it is today. One thing is that the Directorate for Nature Management has procedures for how to engage in dialogue – and I suppose they have initially been followed. But then it is that very much of the disagreement in typical protective matters is, of course, minor questions that are not necessarily clear and clear on the part of the Storting. Then it is incredibly important that the Directorate for Nature Management not only has dialogue – that is one thing – but that they actually take on the recordings that are coming, and also try to find practical, concrete solutions. This is an example – an example of many – of a process that has gone completely wrong. Instead of being able to find sensible, practical solutions, as found in other areas of protection, for example: Brattevjell – Vindeggen, has been given a process that has created anger, aggression, distrust of systems and accusations of arrogance. It's just wrong; it's wrong that it should be so, and it also threatens the legitimacy of the system we have in many ways. I want the Council of State to take along two questions. The first concerns the DN guidelines for dialogue. It is about how to actually solve specific problem areas. It's not about growth and protection, but it's just about how, in a practical and sensible way, based on sound local thinking, you can take advantage of the areas you already have. The second is some reflections about this that the department is the last appeal body. It, in my view, requires an active department, simply to ensure that political will and governance become crucial, not just the decisions of the administration, which can often be seen as being based on judgement. Then I finally want to help the representative Skei Grande with his story. She did not come up with any examples where the Left had reason to be ashamed. The persistent and high-lying defense of the used guns' policies, that is, the dismantling of the Norwegian defence in the 1920s and 1930s, are not exactly the most proud moment in the party's history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e382	I have a slightly different entrance to what Trine Skei Grande said, than Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, because I'm very jealous of her because she gets to be a member of a party that has been right in everything since Johan Sverdrup's day – you world how wonderful it must be! The only strange thing is that you just start with Johan Sverdrup – why not go back to Adam and Eve in the overview of all the things left has been right in. It must be the only party – and the only person – in the whole world, somewhere, ever having been right in everything at all times. I just want congratulations; it must be great to have it like this! Then to the protection policy. The reason we're getting these issues up is because the red-green government succeeds in protecting policies. It's not like it's being made here, that it's uncontroversial, and that everyone agrees. No, the protection of Hardangervida was adopted by two votes against at the National Labour Party meeting, and the Right was against. All the important protection issues that the red-green government has fought through have been controversial. The Trillemark was not uncontroversial, nor was it unanimous. The Law of Natural Diversity was one of many who did their utmost to find difficulties with it, instead of having it implemented. Political courage and willingness to do so were required. The Marka Act -- the exact same thing. It was first in the last instance, in the Stortinget, that the Right did not try to pierce the wheels, but carried it out. It was also no coincidence that it took 30 years under a lot of right-hand rule without it being implemented, before we did. Now we are going to go into marine protection plans, we are completing the national park plan, and we are implementing extensive forest protection – none of this uncontroversial, everything requires political will, and the will to protect has been shown by the red-green government that it has. But we also have the will to use. This is precisely why we have now gone much further than previous governments in saying that there should be local protection management within these frameworks. We want to put it out, precisely because we believe in the good sense of the villagers, as Per Olaf Lundtigen and many others have so well spoken for here. To this end, the protection should be managed down there, out there, among those most affected, within the leadership set by the Storting. And we're doing value creation programs and a number of other things, which just show that we want protection, yes – but use. I'd like to end by saying that the Directorate of Nature Management is located in Trondheim, not in Oslo. You have to look for someone who speaks the Oslo dialect when you get to the offices there. At least it's not part of the Oslo elite. But I would also like to say that the Directorate for Nature Management should, of course, listen to the debate we have heard here now. Criticisms about being perceived as arrogant have to listen to every instance and agency in Norway, and see if it can improve the practice when carried out by many important wholesalers. And then I just want to end by saying, the balance between protection, national and international, and local compromises that need to be implemented is not easy. [[President clubs]] But I agree with the Red Isaac that we have to avoid millimetre tyranny.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e397	Yes, except just when it comes to speaking time! There it should be quite precise. So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e415	It is, as stated in the interpellation text, now ten years since the Rieber-Mohn Committee presented its position. And as in the debate we've had before here, we have some obligations to take care of: all of God's creatures that are given us here on earth. But I have to admit that I personally also have a very great fascination for the very creature we're talking about right now. It's a creature that's hard to relate to state borders, and we have little knowledge of. This is a nomadic species, as there are many mysteries around. It therefore makes its management particularly difficult. The villa is a starting point for a lot of outdoor life. Estimates show that about 100,000 people in Norway today have their open-air life related to catching just this fish. We expect that we have approx. 2900 annual works related to natural use and this fish and a value creation of about 1 billion. kr, plus that it is an important factor in the entire ecosystem. We know, for example. that our estuaries wouldn't have lived the way they do today, if it hadn't been for the wild. This is an international responsibility that lies very heavily in Norway, as 1/3 of all Atlantic wild species actually spawn in Norway. Based on yesterday's tax lists, it is clear that the farming industry is at least making good money in breeding these fish. But there is a very challenging life between farmed salmon and wild salmon. All alarm clocks should have started calling. In 30 years, the number of wild salmon strains has dropped by 82 pst. My grandfather had in his housekeeper's contract that of the days of duty you should only have salmon as food for a certain number of days, which tells how easily the salmon was available in certain river areas, and how simple it was considered to be food. Today, the wild axis has been exterminated in eleven countries. The remaining wild - species countries are Norway, Iceland, Ireland and Scotland. The crisis means we've wiped out the salmon in 60 of our watercourses, and 200 are threatened. 45 of our salmon populations are eradicated, and 1/3 of the 401 rivers that are left are threatened or vulnerable. In Finnmark we see huge falls in some rivers. Over the night, or over the winter as it is in the salmon cycle, we see huge falls, for example. in eleven Tana. We know what the challenge is: within the freshwater area, there's pollution, there's power expansion, and there's acid rain, which we've come to a long way because of liming. The major challenges today are probably related to the aquaculture industry. We see tragedies unfolding today in relation to escape. We see that there are rivers there between 16 and 60 pst. the fish has escaped farmed salmon. The main problem associated with this is mainly recontamination. It's a miracle for us that the fish are able to find back to exactly the eleven they came from. It's hard to ignore that escape actually destroys these genes over time. The second major challenge is the seaswallowed leaching. See if it's spent 1 billion. kr in the last year, the ratio is just as serious as before. We're beginning to see lice that are resistant to the old means, and the lusa today is much more aggressive than the salmon lice we saw attacking Norwegian rivers in the 1980s. We see new diseases occurring in the mermaids, such as PD, which can pose a major threat to Norwegian salmon rivers. And Gyro has been a pain in the ass for a long time. Today we see that the Ranava stretch has been declared fresh. 16 has been freshly reported, and five are under health notice, so Gyro is a matter that is going to be a major challenge for the wild game in the future, but which we are starting to get funds to deal with. Fishing has also been viewed as a threat, sail if we see that there are some restrictions in the rivers that lead to just 60 pst. can be taken into account in relation to what you could do before. A major challenge in this field is monitoring and knowledge. The monitoring is very pieceful and has been primarily linked to lice and escape. We know very little about the way of the wild and, for example, the way of the wild. how interventions in nature affect salmon trajectories. It's a big challenge to take care of the genetic mass that we're sitting with in relation to the wild axis. Many of the problems we see in the rivers are coming extremely acute, and we should have had a great deal to deal with the genes that we see threatened by extinction. Summing up, we see that the threat is increasing in all fields. The knowledge that we have about the consequences is little. We tried salmon fjord regulation, but it has not made us target. In a letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee in January of this year, Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim wrote: ‘The very serious situation with extensive escapes and high levels of salmonids gives particular cause for concern.’ I share the Council of State's assessment. There is a great cause for concern about the wild game and the possibilities of the wild game today. So my question to the Council of State is, what action does one take to ensure that we actually have the opportunity here in the country to have a sustainable wildstock also in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e448	While ironizing about Trine Skei Grande in the previous debate, I would now like to thank her for addressing a very important topic, which deserves a real, thorough debate in the Stortinget. According to the Scientific Council for Salmon Management, the population for 2009, which is the last year for which we have figures, is the lowest for the period after 1983. We have seen steadily poor return migration of small salmon in recent years, so I fully share the concerns of the wild salmon strain in Norway. Historically, there are five threats to the wild species: acid rain, hydropower regulation and physical intervention, Gyrodactylus, salmon, and escaped farmed salmon. We see that three of these critical factors are under control, while two of them are not. Acid precipitation has eliminated or reduced the incidence of wildaxes in more than 50 rivers, but acidification in the worst affected areas is now effectively prevented by liming. The lizard has secured the salmon population in twelve watercourses, and there are reestablished salmon populations in a further 10 rivers. We need to keep the liming at a high level for many, many years to come in order to ensure that this measure is effective enough to deliver results, but it has been successful so far. Watercourse regulation and physical intervention have historically been one of the main threats to the wild species, but in the last ten years more stringent environmental requirements for hydroelectric power development have led to a reduction in this problem. In addition, watercourse regulators have contributed financially to the operation of gene banks, cultivation and various improvements, so it's also an area where we feel that it's control. The freshwater parasite Gyrodactylus salaris is still a serious threat to the wild species. It has led to a high mortality rate of salmonids in nearly 50 Norwegian streams, but we now have methods that make it possible to combat it successfully. Last autumn 2009, the Ranava stretch, which is a large watercourse, was freshly reported. Salmon fisheries are also a significant influence factor for the wild species. The interpellant referred to the Tanava stretch, which is not only Norway’s but one of the world’s most important salmon rivers. There we depend on cooperation with Finns to ensure good management, and we will now take further initiatives towards Finland to see if we can put in place a better system of management of salmon in Tana, where we have a common desire to take care of the tribe. It is clear that salmon is also vulnerable to natural variations in the marine ecosystem. We don't know enough about the extent to which acidification and warmer water affect salmon movements at the moment. It works intensively to increase knowledge of how the marine ecosystem affects the growing conditions of wild species, but these are clearly factors that we can control to a much lesser extent. We might be able to control it over time through international climate negotiations, but we can barely control it nationally. The conditions in the Atlantic Sea must be seen more as a framework condition for salmon stocks. That being said, the North-East Atlantic is among the oceanic ecosystems in the world that are in the best condition. We're left with two main problems, which we can't say at the moment that we have enough control over. It's leaches and escapes, which were also found in the interpellant's articles. In autumn 2008, the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs took the initiative to develop the government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. That strategy was presented on 1 April 2009 and will serve as a basis for the further development of aquaculture policy. The strategy focuses on salmon and the escape of farmed fish as the main environmental challenges now facing the aquaculture industry. In the case of salmontus, the situation can be described roughly as follows: the situation was serious in 2009. We can't finally sum up the situation for 2010, but most of the evidence suggests that the 2010 main picture will be the same as for 2009, if we see the year as a whole. The breeding industry has made considerable efforts to reduce the problem, as was said here. They have implemented measures for 1 billion. kr, and it has reduced the problem, but it has not removed the problem. It is too early to make a final summary of how much smolt has come out into the sea, and to what extent this smolt has been infected with salmonnus on its way out. But the main picture is that the salmon problem is still a major and real threat to salmon. I was myself on an inspection at the end of Dirdalselva in Ryfylke at the end of June. It's an area where it's not primarily salmon, but where it's primarily sea trout, and it was registered back-migrated sea trout with at the top of 200 salmonnus. It's clear that if the problem is big for salmon, it's even bigger for trout, because the trout doesn't go out into the sea. It just goes into the feathers and thus becomes more easily infected. Many of the fish we caught were in a miserable constitution, they had serious injuries, and some dead fish were found. So there's no doubt that salmoninus, even in moderate quantities, can have a very serious effect on young salmonids as it goes out into the sea. Not many lice are needed to kill a small fish. A report will be presented later this year on the final outcome of the monitoring of wild fish for 2010. On 18 August 2009, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs adopted a new regulation for the control of lice. The Regulation allowed the Food Safety Authority to impose a number of measures on farmers in cases where their own measures are not considered sufficient, including: permit the application of the requirements for the leaching, set-aside and slaughter of fish. In addition, work on separate control regimes for salmonids has continued in the various regions. In July, the Danish Food Safety Authority adopted a new zone regulation for the prevention and control of salmonids in Sunnhordland and Hardanger, which is one of the areas where the situation is most serious. The consultation periods for a similar regulation for Trøndelag were recently extended and a corresponding regulation for Rogaland is being worked on. The Zone Regulations provide for separate regimes for the control of salmonids, where farmers within the individual zone must jointly assess the measures to be taken if the lice numbers exceed the action limit. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has made it clear that in the near future further regulatory changes will be consulted to better understand the use of drugs. In terms of escape, which is the other big problem, the situation is that the number of fish that escape seems to go down clearly. It's a positive expression for improvements in the industry itself, but we don't have a good enough overview of the gray numbers – that is, how many escapes that are not recorded in a good enough way. Due to the growth in volume in the farming industry, even a reduced escape problem remains a huge problem in the number of fish entering the rivers. The element of escaped farmed fish in the spawning grounds is a more real measure of the damage caused by escaped fish than on how many we can document as refugees. Unfortunately, there is evidence that the escape figures are significantly higher than the statistics suggest, among other things. due to leakages from squid and smelting plants. The incorporation of escaped fish into spawning populations fell considerably from 1990 to 2000, and has then been fairly stable. The inclusion of escaped farmed salmon in many populations has been higher during this period than the level considered by the Scientific Council for Salmon Management as sound with regard to the genetic integrity of the populations. There is now a wide range of work to reduce escape. The Directorate for Fisheries has provided a zero-flow vision, which includes a number of follow-up actions. There are administrative measures, including the requirement for internal control in installations, new requirements for mesh size in nuts, new branding provisions to reduce the likelihood of damage to installations, and reinforced reactions in the event of breach of rules leading to escape. In order to prevent leakages from set-aside and smelting systems, double-sewerage requirements for such plants were introduced from 1 January 2008. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has also provided funds for the development of a technical standard for seine fishing facilities, which will help to reduce the problem. I have to add that the allocation to the Directorate-General for Fisheries for strengthening the supervisory capacity has increased, and a number of other budget lines under both the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of the Environment, which will be working on this, have been greatly increased. A list of that I could possibly come back to. To sum up, we are facing a major and real problem, and we are facing a species where Norway must be said to have a special responsibility, because so much of the Norwegian-Atlantic salmon strain goes up into rivers under our responsibility. As the interpellant said, this is a species of fish that has been a very important part of human diet, culture, in Norway in impeccable times, and it will be an unimaginable declaration of failure for our generation if we are to be the ones who administered the death of the Norwegian-Atlantic salmon strain. What we need to find are practical compromises between a farming industry that brings great benefits to Norway – it is a major source of export income, an important source of employment in District Norway, but which must continuously improve technologically and practically, just as industry has undergone rapid changes in order to improve the environment – and all the measures we need to take in order to take care of the wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e495	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we understand the seriousness, but we have a big job ahead of us before we can find a solution. I have to admit that apart from my cats, this is the animal species that gives me the most joy in life, so I'm willing to fight hard to keep it. I have three concrete questions – first of all, about bringing knowledge to the ground, having a strategy to figure out which things actually affect this species. We know about some threats, but we have no concrete evidence of which poses the greatest threat. The second, which is one of the recordings I've got from many around the country, is the need for a more global strategy. We share this resource with several others, and this applies not only to those countries that currently manage wild-ax resources, but also to those who manage farming in the same geographical area, such as the United States. Canada, which is also a challenge. When the education committee was visiting Chile a and a half period ago, we were met by desperate marine biologists who saw Norwegian breeders using Norwegian-Atlantic salmon for farming in the Pacific. It means that regulation is very different around the world, and maybe we could have an international, joint initiative to look at what factors affect the wild species today. And the third is this with a gene bank, which I think is urgent, and which it has been very important to get in place. Can the Council of State answer the questions of knowledge-building, global regulation and re-banking, which I believe is one of the three factors that are not so high in today's debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e510	To address the three specific questions asked by Trine Skei Grande: what I have tried to present in this interview response is, of course, what we are assuming today is the right knowledge. I totally share the idea that nature is incredibly complex. How the different factors in an ecosystem affect each other, we know a lot about, but we will get a lot more knowledge in the years to come – how the many different threats to the wild axis that I have listed will work together, if some of them are significantly more important than others, for example. the significance of any temperature change, living conditions in the Atlantic Ocean, acidification. How much of a role this all plays, we don't know much about, so getting a lot more and better knowledge is important. We should also do so in cooperation with other countries. Then a more global strategy was demanded. I would like to take that back to be evaluated by our professionals how much it is to pick it up. But it's absolutely certain that this is a species that is moving over difficult distances. Having a global strategy – and I do not think so from the interpellant either – cannot prevent us from doing our utmost here in Norway. We have a responsibility to keep order in our own house, and of course, both the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and others should look at it and to what extent we can have something to gain from better cooperation with others. It is a theme of considerable international interest. There aren't so many areas where I get as many letters from other skyscrapers as in the case of salmon, whether it's from Canada, the United States, Iceland or anywhere else. So what we do is interested in others. It's not just because people come from there and fish in our watercourses, but because it can also matter to them. When it comes to gene banks, I also want to confer a little bit with others, but of course taking care of the genetic resources is a very important thing. I will get back to it in a later answer, if necessary. So I want to say that as we see it today, the key to solving this area is at the intersection and the compromise between the farming industry and the wild game. I understand that all 169 large-scale representatives and all the members of the government believe that we should both have a farming industry in Norway and take care of the wild. So that's how we're going to find compromises between this, which is the real question. As I said, farming is a difficult, growing and important industry for Norway, but it must also be under constant improvement. I think the farming industry still has a lot to learn from the industry. Industry came to a point where it stopped finding some sort of excuse for not doing anything about the environmental problems. It started using all its best minds, best scientists, and made it a management problem every day and hour to look for opportunities for environmental improvements in industry. At that time, environmental problems in the industry in the western countries were more or less solved. The same should be done by the farming industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e523	Villaks is a repeater in this hall, fortunately. I share the fascination of Skei Grande for this very special species, which starts its life in a river, walks out into saltwater and returns to exactly the same river and the same spawning grounds without us understanding how it can happen. I've spent countless hours at the Norwegian Villakssenter in Lærdal, where my in-laws have contributed to the central part of the exhibition, so I share the fascination with this. So the interpellant is absolutely right in that the situation is worrying. Many of our populations have already been eradicated, and the phase of the situation in our rivers is now that 120 of the rivers are closed, and 180 rivers receive two to four weeks of extra peace. In the last three years, the perceived presence of small salmon has been the lowest ever. So the Council of State gave a thorough account of all the different threats to which the wild species is exposed, whether it is acid rain, watercourse regulation or gyro. They're all significant, but they're going to be counted as stabilized factors, things that we have some control over. The threat considered to be unstabilised is salmontus and escaped farmed salmon. I think it is worrying when, at yesterday's hearing on the energy and environmental committee, we were presented with figures showing that the lice situation in the mermaids is as bad as last year, as we all remember as a very difficult year, and that despite the fact that it started a large-scale leaching process. Much of the threat lies in the fact that the farmed salmon is many in number, while the wild salmon is few. In a single mermaid, it could be up to half a million fish. The total insight into quarries of wild breeds to Norway is between half a million and a million. Annually, there is more farmed salmon than the annual wild salmon survey conducted in Norway. DN's figures say that the entry of escaped farmed salmon into the spawning stock on average is 17 pst. Of course, in some places it's much lower, and there it goes very well, but in some populations it's up to 60 pst. Then I agree that it is very worrying that there have been detected resistant salmonnus in several places in the country. You don't need much imagination to imagine how critical the situation can be if resistant lice spread to many installations along the coast. So there were several actions that were launched last year. The Food Safety Authority was given permission to impose a leaching, depopulation of fish and, in the worst case, fallowing. That was good and absolutely necessary. The 5 pst. the increase in the maximum authorised biomass, to which it was due last year, was halted and it has still not been taken into account because of the serious situation in which it is situated. So it's very good that the escape has gone down considerably, and the industry is going to have a reward for it. At the same time, lice in the mermaids are a problem in any case, because the melt has to pass these plants on their way up into the river and thus pass a belt of lice, and we know that the melt is very vulnerable. In addition, it is not necessarily the number of escaped fish that is crucial, but the amount of escaped fish you have in the spawning grounds. The Director of Fisheries has his vision fled zero. It's important. I want to highlight as particularly important that you have intensified the response to a breach of the rules. However, at the same time, the Scientific Council for Salmon Management says that the measures taken are hardly sufficient to bring the amount of salmonnus down to a sustainable level compared to wild fish. We have to take that seriously. As over a long period of time, land-based industry has been subject to progressively more stringent environmental requirements and regulations and has moved in a sustainable direction, it is quite natural that the same should be done for the aquaculture industry. And I see that the industry itself is interested in and sees the necessity of. The labelling of salmon is something that is still being discussed, and I think we need to consider seriously whether it should be used. Knowing where the escaped salmon comes from allows you to place the responsibility where it belongs – and it will be preventive. But the important thing is, of course, to prevent escape. I hope and believe that the development of new technologies can help solve many of the environmental challenges facing the breeding industry today. Closed installations are obviously interesting. What's happening in Hardangerfjord is probably worth following. It would be good if several pilot plants were put in place in Norway and tried out the technology properly. Canada has already introduced requirements for the use of closed-end installations when the concessions are extended. So, finally, this is often produced as a conflict against business interests, and I think it's worth mentioning that salmon fishing also contributes to 2,500 annual works and is an important source of income in many communities. It also belongs in the big picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e553	First, thank you to the interpellant who took up an important matter. Our Villaksstammer has gained increasing focus at a time when we also see that farmed salmon is strongly sought, with record salsify and good prices. Many people think that there is a close link between the volume of farming and the problem of, among other things. lakterus. Just the lace has become an increasing problem in many places. A coordinated leaching project, called here before, has been carried out by the farming industry, which has significantly reduced the problem. But still there's a bit left before you can say that one has the situation under full control. The situation is good in the north, while the challenges in the south are greater. Furthermore, Gyrodactylus salaris is a pressure against the wildax strain, and the Progress Party is ready to increase significantly to remove this parasite. This disease became known to be introduced into the river by public actors, and here literally polluters have to pay, and it has to be done quickly. Because then the biological specialities and the adaptation of the salmon have to the individual rivers, it is important that the gene bank has the ability and resources to preserve the very important resource of the wild species. So a few words about the smoking of the individual elves. Today, there is an immeasurably important and good work being done by individuals and river owners. This work should be reinforced, and there is a responsibility for the regional level of administration. As we know, today a significant amount is paid to the county councils in the concession fee, and here we have, among other things. states a significant possibility of taking a responsibility. More and Romsdal is a good example in that context. They've got a warrant on the lower edge of 20 million. the concession fee, which was intended for these funds to be used for the prevention of the wilderness axis of the county. So a few words about the escape of farmed salmon: large quantities of fish are sometimes lost. I recently read about it in the newspaper Driva, which tells of a lot of kilos of salmon in the Sunndalsfjord, which is being fished off from beaches and bays. Of course, they represent a danger to local wild breeds, especially if they are subsequently allowed to enter local watercourses where they may be involved in the contamination of biologically. But when it's suggested to grant permission to shrimp fishing, in this way to take up the most possible of the escaped fish, a strangely enough no to it. Here is an example of incomprehensible so-called professional assessment and what is appropriate for solving an acute local problem. The problem has still not been solved. Let me stress that when it comes to escape from farming facilities, it is totally unacceptable, and we are fortunately seeing that this problem is becoming less topical. Let me conclude by adding a solution that allows both the aquaculture industry and the wild species to live on, almost side by side. For the one industry is important for, as is said here, up to 100,000 outdoors connections, and aquaculture provides us with large export revenues that our welfare community needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e574	Since 1970 the total catches of Atlantic salmon have been reduced by 75 pst. About one third of the world’s Atlantic salmon resources belong in Norway, with about 400 remaining populations. Norway therefore has a specific international responsibility to take care of the Atlantic wild species. There is a great cause for concern about the continuing decline of the wild stocks. There are three main challenges threatening the wild species: genetic impact of escaped farmed salmon, disease and parasite problems caused by breeding activities and salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. These threats, in addition to climate change, are likely to eliminate the wild species individually. The first two of these, escape and parasites – and then it's especially salmonnus I'm thinking of – are related to the farming industry. The very serious situation of escapes and high levels of salmonitus gives particular cause for concern. The industry has a clear responsibility to operate sustainably. We will continue to facilitate high value creation and jobs in the breeding industry, but this must be done in a way that does not threaten the wild species. Sustainable farming is not least important for the industry’s own future. The villa is the genetic bank of the farmed salmon, and if the wild species is eradicated, the future of the farming industry is also threatened. The reputation of the breeding industry in terms of sustainability is also important in significant export markets, both here in Europe, in North America and other parts of the world. In the Right, we share the interpellant's concern for the negative development of the wild-tail population, and we will commend her for addressing this issue today. Interpellant is quite right when she points out that the farming industry has created many jobs in the districts. However, it has gradually developed a reputational challenge as a result of environmental problems in the wake of industrial activity. Monitoring shows a significant element of escaped farmed salmon in the spawning stock for the wild species, about 17 pst., while the scientific advice of the wild species management suggests a level of more than 5 pst. the incorporation of farmed fish threatens the long-term survival of wild-tailed populations. In some cases, the element of escaped farmed fish should be well below this level. The industry must address this and end the excessive degree of escape from the facilities. The amount of the parasite salmonitus is assumed to be six to ten times more than the sustainable level. Unfortunately, farms have given good living conditions for this parasite. The industry has implemented several measures to try to deload the plants, but has not been able to bring the lice down to an acceptable level. So the breeding industry has a lot to do. At the same time, this is a professional industry that has shown many times that it is able to deal with problems. Most breeders are serious businessmen who take the challenges seriously. At the same time, restrictive measures by the authorities will be necessary in some areas. We should therefore have a differentiated policy on the award of salmon farming concessions. We should be able to allow for growth in the industry in areas where there is no problem in terms of escape or salmonidosis, while we need to take a more restrictive line in areas where there has been a lot of escape, a lot of disease in the mermaids or high salmonid concentrations. In such areas, the farming industry must show that they can solve their problems before further growth becomes relevant. It should also be possible to apply restrictions in relation to current operations. The best motivation for the owners of these facilities must be to allow them to grow when problems are solved. State Council Solheim pointed out quite correctly that the number of escapes goes down. That's right. I would like to commend the work done by the Fisheries Directorate in connection with Vision Zero Flight, along with the police, with Ecocrim and with the industry itself, to bring down the figures. There has been a hard work and a cooperation that has given results. That's very good. But in addition, I think it is important to listen to the industry and the solutions the industry itself suggests, that one can be a little bit more modest in terms of structuring and framework conditions for the industry, so that they also have the opportunity to align themselves in a way that will be more optimal in relation to disease and escape problems. As for the lack of an overview of gray numbers, I may not be as concerned as the Council of State. I think we're getting a lot of reports on escaped fish. Having the possibility of DNA tracking, which you have today, makes breeders know that the probability of being discovered is quite great. It is also important in the prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e597	The situation of Norwegian villas is very serious. There is more breeding salmon each year than the annual wild salmon. Measured in volume, there is quite an incredible amount of farmed salmon in Norway now than there are wild salmon. This represents a major challenge in itself, in terms of both infectious and disease hazards and the peculiar genetics of the wild species. Salmon stocks do not support more than 5 pst. incorporation of farmed fish over time. That's why we have a challenge ahead of us. Although the attention to the lice problem was high last year, the problem is not smaller this year. That is why I too would like to commend the inter-pellant, Trine Skei Grande, for a very good initiative. This debate is important. The measures now being implemented have been well described by the Council of State. The Food Authority has established a new zone regulation for Sunnhordland and Hardanger. The same will be done in Trondelag and Rogaland. Permission has been granted to impose set-aside and depopulation of fish. There is a requirement to double-protect waste from smelting plants and seine fish plants. The Directorate of Fisheries has increased by 10 million. kr to increase the supervisory capacity of the industry. That's what's needed. And the budgets of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of the Environment have been strengthened by a total of 15 million. kr, e.g. for surveillance, data collection and issues related to escape. But this debate should be about something more than the government's repair of the problems arising from an unsustainable industry. For there is no repair that can ensure wild-tail populations in Norway against disease and eradication. There are targeted interventions to change the operation of the farming industry. The breeding industry bears a great responsibility for the situation of the wild species. Politicians have been too yielding to industry demands. Therefore, last year’s postponement of the planned increase in the maximum authorised biomass was a very important signal. It is not always that a nutrition wants to be for the industry’s own good. When I say this, I'm sure there won't be any lack of objections from the right-hand side that I don't respect and see the value creation, the technology development and the jobs that the breeding industry represents. That's obviously wrong. I myself have had several times great pleasure in visiting the breeding industry of Hitra and Frøya in my home country and seeing the values created and all the work done to nourish well. In many ways, however, this issue has much in common with Norwegian petroleum policy: excessive overpressure will cause serious repercussions that are neither good for value creation nor for the environment. I hope that there will be no need for the example of Chile to show what can happen if we don't take action together on a situation that in its being is unsustainable. It does not keep referring and referring to some unprofessional actors. The problem is material. The industry will not be sustainable as long as too many anxiety messages meet with answers that everything is going better than we thought before, that the number of escapes is going down by percentage, when it is the total volume that is interesting in relation to the wild axis, and that the lice situation will soon be under control. What we need, on the contrary, is an industry that does not reject, but embraces the development of closed farms. In other parts of the world, this is driven by profitability. We cannot accept a rejection of the transition to closed installations just because it gives a little less profit. On the contrary, it is a responsibility that must be taken when the business is at risk of eradicating an entire species. In many cases, closed installations will also provide opportunities for the use of waste materials, for example. biogas plant. There have been discussions about this in the municipality of Ørland in Sør-Trøndelag, which I follow with great interest. We need an industry that so far has become more sophisticated in the labelling of fish, so that we can put the people responsible in the event of major evacuations. As the Committee on Energy and the Environment heard in yesterday's hearing, it is not necessarily the case that the tracking mechanisms we have today are sufficient to identify those responsible. It has to be done. We need to take a critical look at our own role and our own responsibilities. For too many years, regardless of colour and majority, the country’s growth has failed to respond to the danger signals that the violent growth in the amount of farmed salmon has brought. We need to be ready to recognise the lack of sustainability in the policy that has been pursued for many years, and ask ourselves the question: Are we served by some of our most valuable species being threatened by extinction because of short-term profit vision? For my part, the answer is clearly no. If the farming industry is to be part of our livelihood also in ten, twenty and thirty years, the course needs to be changed. It is in the long run also for the industry’s own good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e616	The villa is an important part of the biological deficiency and is a fascinating creature that many people have been in. That's why the wild beast's survival is not only important for Norway to be able to take care of its international obligations, but also for the generations that come after us to experience this creature. We know that securing viable wild breeds means something about activity and employment around our country. It is an important industry in many rural communities. So a targeted work in line with what the Council of State has done is crucial. It is good that the government takes action through both legislation and regulation in this area to meet the challenges this species faces. Governments have pointed out that there are several threats to wild salmon strains, and that one must therefore work on a broad level to meet them. However, it is also important that the measures we have taken are accurate, and – as the interpellant has done several times – that they are knowledge-based. Setting industries up against each other just to build up under rhetoric and without looking for practical and decent solutions to the challenges, the view of the Center Party is less than reasonable. In April 2009, the government presented a strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has provided an overview of the status, measures and objectives and the need for new measures in five main areas where aquaculture affects the surrounding environment. From the state standpoint, one through the winter we were through, has shown that one follows the situation closely, and that one might put in place the necessary measures when required, but still we have a major gap problem – despite the efforts made by the government, and with great effort from the aquaculture industry, to meet this challenge. It requires a stronger tilt in the future. I think it is good that the Council of State runs under a zone approach, because we know that this is a big problem in some areas, and then we should remember that in other areas the lice problem is not a big problem at present. Therefore, it is quite right to have the zone approximation to which the Council of State refers. I would also like to underline the representative Grimstad's reference to the great work done locally by both volunteers and public authorities when it comes to wild-axis issues in general. For the Centre Party, it is important to further develop both the seafood industry and the wild species industry. There are two important industries. Dialogue is entirely decisive. One should listen to suggestions from the nutritionists. Then listen to the suggestions that come in. It is probably right, as the representative Serigstad Valen says, that it is not always the case that the proposed measures are the most accurate, but I believe it is always important to assess them. Then what the interpellant said quite correctly, and as the Skei Grande is nice to stretch under in this hall, is that the experience-based knowledge has to lie on the ground when a decision is taken. It provides the most accurate decisions. That way, we can secure the fallacy, and we can get a forward-looking aquaculture industry where the actors are in charge of the government to find the right grip. There have been a number of moments and measures here. I'm not going to repeat what has been said, just stress the conclusion: here is an increase in effort, a listening focus on the wild species' survival even in the time to come, and then listen to a dialogue and make sure that the solutions are a good one, focus both on preserving the wild species and on securing the marine industry, which is an important industry, into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e634	The Villax is a living environmental barometer that shows whether we manage the watercourses, the coasts and the sea areas in a sustainable way. As the interpellant points out, 120 out of 450 rivers have been closed for fishing this year. It's a serious situation. The representative Marthinsen said there are an incredible number of salmon in the mermaids. Yes, and therefore the Christian People's Party's position is that we must freeze all further growth in the number of farmed fish until we have been controlled on salmon and escape. In addition, we need to take action to ensure an environmentally sustainable farming industry. Seven out of ten Norwegian wild breeds are dying out, according to a report from the Scientific Council for Salmon Management. Both trade unions and environmental organisations agree that we have major challenges in the way today’s farming industry operates. It's not sustainable. Despite major challenges of lice and escape, the government will not cancel the capacity increase in the aquaculture industry in proposals for government budgets for next year. It is announced that the government will present a separate case of an increase in the maximum authorised biomass. Increasing the number of farmed fish now believes the Christian People's Party is very short-sighted and testifies to the lack of ability to take the situation in the farming industry seriously. The Christian People's Party will look at various measures to ensure a sustainable nutrition. Closed installations at sea are a possible solution that can address both the development of industry and the need for an environmentally sustainable industry. Closed installations are already in operation in both China and Canada, and any future capacity increase may therefore be reserved for those operating with closed installations. The government should also present a plan for long-term structural changes in the regulation of the farming industry. The breeding industry must be controlled and strictly required, as is the case with the former SFT, now Clif, in relation to land-based industry. The representative Serigstad Valen mentioned that the Ministry of Fisheries has increased its resources for control. Then it is strange that the Food Safety Authority, which is to carry out this check, actually reduces its operating budget by more than 2 pst. Next year. We believe that this creates challenges for safe food and also for the control of farms. In addition to salmoneus, escaped farmed salmon is the second main threat to the wild species. Salmon discharge must be prevented much more strongly than today. It is important both to ensure the reputation of the farming industry and the possibility of sustainable and profitable production in the long term, and to preserve the wild and sea trout in Norway. We have 15 pst. Spaced salmon in the rivers. The entry is chronically too high. When there are 1,000 farmed salmon for each wild species, it illustrates the real threat. Rumid farmed salmon has mixed with wild salmon and caused genetic impairment of salmon. Closed salmon rivers also have a negative economic impact on the agricultural industry. The farm is expecting closed salmon rivers to produce 500 million. kr in annual losses. Norwegian Lakselver calculates local economic losses as a result of the restrictions at 280 million. kr. This also means the loss of important and environmentally friendly jobs. Many Norwegian populations of wild salmon and sea trout will not survive unless the threats of salmon and escaped farmed fish cease to exist. Norway has an international responsibility for maintaining the Atlantic wild species. The Christian People's Party therefore asks the government to take action to halt the negative development, otherwise neither the wild or the farmed industry will survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e655	Taking care of the wild is of course very important. Everyone agrees. Several before me in the debate have pointed out the main challenges, and what measures are most relevant and relevant. I am very pleased that there is cross-political agreement and understanding of the situation. I want to talk mainly about the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris, or Gyro, as we say on the edges of the country from which I come. In my home municipality, Sunndal, we have received funds from the government to fight the gyro in the river Driva with fishing barrier and chemical treatment of the river. We are very grateful for that, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Council of State for the funds. Driva is a large watercourse that starts at Dovre, and runs out into the Sunndalsfjord in More and Romesdal. The watercourse has many large and small tributaries that make it impossible to treat the watercourse only chemically. Therefore, a fishing barrier, a so-called long-term barrier, shall be built below the main side rivers. The barrier shall remain for a certain number of years until one is sure that the fish above the barrier is dead, and thus also the gyro. Thereafter, the river shall be treated and the lateral watercourses below the barrier shall also be treated chemically, while the barrier remains. That's the goal for Driva to be gyro-free. So it's going to put out new, real drive-lax. This project is not unproblematic. Faith and doubt replace each other, with different reasons. Among other things, there are engineering challenges with the fish barrier itself, as well as difficulties in finding a suitable place for appropriate reasons. The barrier must stand for many years and withstand large floods in a flood and wild river. In addition, landowners and river owners and local tourism and business will lose large revenues from the lack of fishing and hence the failure of tourism while barring and treatment is in progress. These naturally want compensation for their loss of income. That's why good local processes are very important for success. But hopefully our attempt will prove to be a good method of combating Gyro in these major watercourses. I'm going to guarantee that if we succeed, it's not just the Driva salmon that will be a happy salmon! We also know that power travel and the lack of minimum water flow associated with the power plants in the salmon watercourses have significantly reduced the wild-axis strain. Very well-known has a well-known 50 watercourse status as a national salmon watercourse. Around half of these are regulated under older concessions that are currently, or are soon, subject to review. Here, the power companies must show social responsibility and willingness to ‘fix up the bad mistakes from yesterday’ and thus contribute to securing the future of the wild. It has to be concluded that power producers contribute to melting death by driving too little water in salmon rivers, such as one. has experienced in the River Surna in More and Romesdal. So in the end, more have been involved in the current measures to prevent the escape of farmed fish and to combat salmon turf. Much of this is good. Research and development have also been discussed. I think, like a couple of others who have said this from the pulpit, that driving pilots at closed farms is necessary. Perhaps this could be the future solution to the conflicts between the breeding industry and the wild species. Hopefully, closed facilities may facilitate the escape of farmed fish and infection between farmed fish and wild fish. At least it's worth a try.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e672	Firstly, I would like to thank all the parties – from several parties to more. It's said a lot wise here today. I don't think anyone's going to be ashamed of any of the posts that are held here, sail 100 years later, sail if we don't know if we're right at all points. I want to raise some challenges in the future. I'm going to repeat my question when it comes to gene banking. We have a gene bank, but do they have the resources to take all the Norwegian salmon rivers? It doesn't work that way today. If the Council of State can give me a good answer to that, the Left saves a deposit on its budget. We were going to put on the gene bank in our alternative -- it was a little leak. I believe there are two challenges in the farming industry in which I believe that dialogue should have taken place and an agreement on deadlines in relation to the objective. This applies to both escape and lice. That the problem of escape has been reduced, it's both about having an industry that's about to go away from being a cowboy industry to be a very professional industry, and that we have insurance schemes that don't make it pay to lose sick salmon, to say it like that. I believe that we have to look at closed sites here – which have been mentioned by many, and which have been intended by hunters' and fishermen's associations. At least I think you have to try it out in some areas and see if it can be made economically profitable. But I believe that in a desperate situation, both in terms of escape and most of all in terms of lice, an agreement should have been reached with industry on some objectives to be achieved within some time limits. It has been shown to be wise many times, and this is an industry with which to make agreements. Clearly, there are two business interests that stand up to each other, and we need to find a balance that makes it possible to develop district industries in a normal and sensible way, while at the same time respecting our international responsibility. So my challenge to the Council of State at the end of the debate is to make an agreement with the industry and make sure that we have a gene bank that can take care of our legacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e683	First, I would like to agree with Trine Skei Grande that there has been a very good debate, and a debate in which there is certainly not something that someone needs to be ashamed of in 100 years' time. One question I want to ask anyway, and which I think will be the test in 100 years' time, is not what we said in this debate, but that is: were we enough – are the measures we are taking in 2010 effective enough to reduce the problems of the wild species? It's the test in 100 years, and I agree with the many who have made different suggestions on what more can be done. Both Marianne Marthinsen, Snorre Serigstad Valen and Tove-Lise Torve pulled out closed installations – Skei Grande too. It is not a simsalabim that can happen overnight, but through state action, and that the industry itself conducts experiments in such a direction, should be an important way to go. Meling, Sande and others were concerned that there had to be interaction between the growth the industry gets, and problem solving. So first you solve the problems, and then growth comes. I think that's the right approach. But we don't have to push it over there because the problems are much bigger in Rogaland and Hordaland, especially, than in other parts of the country, we're going to export the problems to the other parts of the country. There are significantly smaller problems further north, but we must not build up an industry in these areas that gets the same growing pains as in Rogaland and Hordaland. I am also very pleased with what Grimstad said, that the Progress Party believes that the polluter should pay. It is a fundamental principle of all environmental policies, and it is good that it is repeated here. Finally, although it may occasionally be unfair for the farming industry, it has been mainly a debate on the farming industry – I think we need to be able to say clearly to the farming industry: Learn from the industry. In the 1970s, if you took up environmental problems in the industry, you'd hear that yes, but the problem is exaggerated, or it'll go over, or it's too expensive to solve, or we don't have the technology to solve it or some PR employees who can explain to us how we can say this in all right ways, so it sounds nice. Then came the point where the industry, individually and collectively, decided: let's solve the problems. Let's put our good people to do that. We lose financially not to solve it. We are losing reputation – as I have said here – not to solve it, and we can develop nourishment to solve it by making export products. I think that's a way of thinking that the farming industry should also learn from -- now look at how to take industry as an example, tackle all the challenges you face, and even feed on solving the problems. Because if we can develop an industry that is globally leading in this area also environmentally, we will also create export products that other countries will be interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e698	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e714	It's been one year since the Right raised this issue, and it's been three years since we first addressed it to the Minister of Justice. It's a fact that Outlaws is now challenging the hegemony that Hell's Angels believe to possess, and it can, as Kripos points out, lead to a confrontation between the clubs. The Monday, October 18th, issue describes a situation where MC clubs in Norway recruit boys in violent youth environments. In a situation where we have a child protection system that doesn't make sense to catch up with a large number of boys with or without a minority background, it's worrying, because that means that the recruitment rate of these clubs is increasing. According to sources, this is the dominant trend in the ongoing rivalry we see between the few MC clubs we now have that can be linked to crime. According to the Department of Organized Crime in the Oslo Police Department, these are followed carefully, and they are partially scanned 24 hours a day. At the same time, it is emphasised that they are only taken when they do something criminal, but do not do zero tolerance work against these environments. What it does not mean to do zero-tolerance work against these environments, I would ask the Council of State to say something about, all the time experience from other countries, including Norway, suggests that zero-tolerance work is absolutely necessary against these types of environments and the recruitment methods they use. I therefore ask the Council of State to say something about what possible assessments might be behind the fact that the police at least seem to have a semi-offensive attitude to this, and also say something about how he assesses the likelihood of underestimating that this can happen in relation to these young people, for example. a self-radicalisation that PST fears in the case of Muslim youth sitting in front of the PC. Similar mechanics and methods of giving up can also be applied to other types of young people who do not have a Muslim background but who listen to other environments and so become self-radicalised. I think it's important to agree to learn from what we're doing in Norway that's right, look at what makes us not yet have had many episodes related to these environments compared to some other countries. At the same time, we have freedom of movement. We have open borders. We're a little rich country. As for the second type of crime, we've been taken to bed and surprised by the flood of profit crime we've seen. That's the question: is this a situation related to the MC environments that we might think might be, that we are kind of a small, isolated, happy country where the crime of the MC clubs is almost non-existent, as the police put it. The recent report of the National Audit Office on organised crime, which was at the hearing of the Control Committee, said a lot about how the authorities have been and are still ‘on the verge’ of how to organise the work on organised crime in which the MC environment, at least abroad, is very involved. Relatively recently, in a NRK document, prisoners in Norwegian prisons were almost looted by Norwegian efforts to combat organised crime by never taking those who are the real backers, but taking the small and medium-sized fish, not the thirty people, thought they were behind. The national audit report calls for stronger intelligence and analysis work at national and, in particular, at regional level, including several strategic analyses, in order to make efforts against organised crime more targeted and coordinated. The study has shown, as is known, that there are considerable differences in the extent to which cooperation and information flows are established between the criminal services and the police. Then came a well-known case, namely that the police's ICT systems do little to facilitate effective crime prevention. There we are, but we're going to use several years before we have new ICT systems in place. In addition, this survey showed that the use of international police and prosecution cooperation was not optimal. Much of it underpins the proposal of the Right now under consideration in the Justice Committee on a better strategy and action to combat organised crime. The fact that the MC environments are pushed out of Oslo and that these crowds may be more likely to build up in other police districts because of lack of interaction is a worrying opportunity. I therefore ask the Council of State to re-examine the situation in the various police districts of the country, the way in which they interact, and, not least, the way in which government authorities provide concrete assistance, for example. municipalities in their efforts to prevent these clubs from getting footholds also in police districts and municipalities outside Oslo. We know that this kind of cooperation is absolutely necessary to prevent it. We now know that after nearly two years of probation, Outlaw's MC Trondheim has become a full-fledged member of the global club. Harald Moholt, police inspector at Trondheim, said the following to the VG-net on 12 October: "We are not celebrating, to say the same." I don't think we will do that when we have now established a new department in Trondheim. At the same time as the police keep up-to-date on developments, they also tell VG networks on 12 October that they will leave the clubs alone as long as they do not show up in the criminal image. The police further state: 'We don't spend much resources on this as long as it's not necessary, we'll see where it goes.' It is possible that this is an expression of a healthy, professional and waiting attitude, but it is far from safe. This, of course, has a clear link to the fact that police districts are still in a difficult situation. I'm not going to run the entire budget debate here, but 100 unaccompanied graduates, eight job vacancies, investment in ICT, a partial reduction in population growth in the country's police districts, the phase is a few years after the 2020 report on police personnel was presented. In this picture, the police should therefore give priority to working against environments that may be in the process of getting bigger footholds in Norway. So the question to the Council of State is: after we discussed this last year and in 2007 – and I know, and the Right knows, that there have been several things since then – how does the Council of State assess the situation since the last time? This challenge was addressed in Stortinget. What new steps will the Council of State take to meet the development itself and not be lost in the run-up to a development where I think that some of the statements of the police in Oslo and Trondheim, respectively, could indicate that the police are unable to carry out a zero-tolerance work that they should absolutely do in view of the possible emergence of several of these environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e735	I thank you for the interpellation and am pleased that the interpellant in its article also expands the perspective. He's not just staying at MC crime, he's having organized crime as such. It's no secret that this represents a significant challenge for our society, both for government and business, and not least for most people. Action against these environments is therefore a priority task for us both in the police and prosecution authorities and throughout the criminal justice chain. The crime we see related to MC environments makes high demands on the police regarding knowledge and the use of methods. Intelligence and analysis form the basis for the response to these environments, but it also has a resource side. It is my opinion that this is well taken care of. The action against criminal MC environments must be seen in the context of the significant resource strengthening undertaken by the government with the consent of the Storting. Over the period 2006–2010, the appropriations allocated to the police and prosecution authorities increased by 2.85 billion. kr – and form the base board of the bet. The increase in 2010 alone represents a total of 1.3 billion. kr. I Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011 has been proposed increased by 546.8 million. kr. The representative, the inter-pellant, is well aware that the number of annual works in the police and prosecution authorities has increased by 754 annual works from 1 March 2009 to 1 March 2010 – and additional annual works will come. In addition, these 230 annual works come as a result of a new working time agreement. Although the resource strengthening applies to the entire police and prosecution authority, there can be no doubt that such formidable resource growth also provides increased scope for action against criminal environments. Since the criminal MC gangs have cross-border links, I will also underline the usefulness and the need for international cooperation. I believe that much of what the Riksrevision wrote in its report related to this, probably got some other shades through the hearing, but also the fact that the Norwegian police cooperation has at Nordic level through Interpol, Europol and Eurojust as well, and the international mechanisms we are now working on provide significant results in combating crime, and in particular organised crime. The Police Directorate is completing a report and strategy on the police’s fight against criminal MC gangs, which will apply for the period 2011-2015. This will replace the previous action plan and continue and strengthen police efforts in this area. Of course, the experience of the reconstruction project, as many people know here, will be part of the future effort against the criminal MC clubs. It's just about stopping a lot of recruitment into unwanted environments. In line with the 2003 action plan on combating MC environments and previous strategy papers, Norwegian police have cooperated constructively with a number of public and private actors, such as insurance companies, tax authorities, social services, municipalities, etc. This cooperation is essential in order to meet the challenge posed by the criminal MC environments. Of course, we will continue this work. The role of police councils in this should not be underestimated. Because organised crime represents, in part, new challenges for governments, businesses and people most, this is an important field of criminal policy for government. As Minister of Justice, I have also seen the need for an overall strategy – to the extent that overall strategies can be developed in such a complex area. Already last fall, I announced to the Storting that there will be a big message about organized crime. For the government, the forthcoming Single European Act represents an overall strategy in the fight against organised crime. The notification will highlight what this crime represents, various challenges related to organised crime, and not least how both police, prosecution authorities and other authorities should cooperate and develop their strategies and actions. The presentation of the paper invites Stortinget to a broad political debate on the challenges posed by organised crime, and not least how society can and should meet these challenges. Of course, the problem of criminal MC gangs is a natural part of this. Through its intelligence activities, including cooperation with the police authorities of other countries, the police are aware that criminals, international MC gangs, knives about influence, territories and recruitment. The MC frequency in Norway is growing both in terms of the number of departments and members. This is a development that reflects the situation in other countries as well. The police directorate has informed that an estimated two out of three members and probationary members of these clubs have been previously punished. There is also a trend in clubs recruiting people who are unknown in police records more often than in the past. In addition to the growth of the actual MC threads, support groups are set up in the form of loyal MC clubs and other criminal groups consisting of multi-criminal youth and adults. The reason for this may be the desire to distance the MC repeats from the crime committed and to increase the number of related persons, which will help to strengthen the MC repeat in the event of confrontations. The MC repeats interact more closely with other criminal networks, increasing the criminal “market share” of the MC repeats and thus the dividend. The growth of the MC threads means that the criminal market – if we can call it that – is being subjected to ever greater pressure. This may be part of the explanation of the serious conflict between, for example: Ethnic gangs and Hells Angels in Denmark, where the conflict is believed to be the source of the drug market knife. The police directorate has stated that there are no indications today that this conflict has spread to Norway or to the Norwegian communities. Crime committed by or for the MC gangs in Norway is typical torpedo activity — drugs, coercion, violence and threats. From abroad, it is known that MC gangs are also involved in prostitution and trafficking in human beings. Through violence and threats, the MC gangs have developed a culture of violence that they attract in their actions through uniformation and membership of the clubs. The growth of the MC threads, the establishment of the community, their ideology and organisational model represent a threat and a challenge. However, there are few points in the opinion of the police to assume that an open conflict will break out in the short term. Through the focus of the Norwegian police on criminal MC gangs, through the resource supply to the police in recent years and through the cooperation established both nationally and internationally, I believe that Norwegian police are well placed to meet the challenges these environments represent. I would also like to say a little bit linked to the effort that was made last year against organised crime, especially the effort force, and the measures that have now been taken, among other things. to be able to deal with the crime that is spreading across more police districts. This was well demonstrated during the hearing on organised crime, namely that a coordinating body composed of the National Attorney, the Police Directorate and the Kripos, was combined with increased funds available – 18 million. kr – to assist cross-border crime districts. I think we'll have a very good effect on that. In addition, it is important that we also consider developing further the work done by the police and prosecution authorities on this type of crime against ICT in particular. I am not going to say so much about this, but I would like to mention that one of the major ICT initiatives in 2006-2007 was actually building up Indicia, which is an unusually important tool, which was confirmed at the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee and is currently being actively used. I think that just to be able to catch up and run better intelligence and analysis, this type of tool will just become more important and more important. Finally, I would like to point out that if we are to be able to deal with this type of organised crime in the future, then we are totally dependent on being able to further develop the use of methods that involve, among other things, us. may have traffic data related to mobile telephony mapped. In this way, the debate on the Data Storage Directive is very important in this aspect. I fully agree with those who are now working on this in Kripos, in the PST and out in the police districts, that without the ability to bring in traffic data, one is very weak in being able to capture organized crime, including the crime associated with MC gangs. In this way, it is an important matter for me, as Minister of Justice, to be able to get a good code to ensure that the police will continue to use traffic data, and that at least data can be obtained to identify and detect very serious criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e775	I thank you for an all-important nuanced response. It's important not to exaggerate the dangers, and then build on what we actually get, even though that's what we don't get. Otherwise, the Right – eventually – is familiar with the figures on which the Council of State and others from the red-greens use ‘copy & paste’, and which are redispatched in almost every answer to any conceivable question that has to do with the police. We probably have a slightly different perception of reality. In any case, the reality of the Council is different from that of the police's resource situation. So it's 100 graduates who haven't got a job. We're almost in November; there were eight jobs to apply for here yesterday. Next year, 430 new people are going to have a job. The funds allocated in the budget must then be aged in relation to the ICT initiative. So how the Council of State intends to make this hang together, and guarantee all the jobs, will be exciting to see. So we're not launching our own crooked plan to harass the government or criticise the government because we're worried that we're not going to achieve the goals of an overall increase in police personnel. It is important that prevention work, among other things, should be carried out on a regular basis. is what is guaranteed first is down-priority, also to the group of young people that I used to justify one of my questions in the interpellation. I heard the council yesterday. He gave a very good speech during the anniversary dinner of the Crime Prevention Council. It was a shimmering speech. I also hope that that speech will determine that the police will provide the framework that will enable both people to be hired and to carry out the most necessary ICT upgrade. Because without it, we risk that the police will not be able to do a real preventive job, for example. to minority boys, to boys with an ethnic Norwegian background, who are perfect victims of cynical MC bands and others in running for them. So I asked some concrete questions with the interpellation as a background, which I hope to get an answer to, and it's: is the Council of State concerned that there can be a self-radicalization among those who are possible recruits? And if not, what's the reason why there's a big difference between PST's assessment of Muslim extremists? What's the reason the police say they don't do zero-tolerance work, but just take these associated environments when they've committed actual crime? Is this a sign that the police do not give proper priority to prevention in relation to new recruitment? There are two concrete questions that I hope the Council of State can say something about. As far as the Data Storage Directive is concerned, the State Council is very well aware that it relies on the possible support of the Right to have a majority in favour of it, since no parties other than the Workers' Party are in favour of data storage. We promise to have a thorough process, but I don't think it's data storage that will decide when it comes to preventing young people getting recruited into MC criminal environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e792	First of all, when it comes to the resources of the police, there is a debate that often goes, and it is clear that when we often get questions about it, we have to answer. It would be a little strange if we answered with different numbers, so that's why it becomes a little bit like 'copy & paste', where the interpellant was inside. But I think it is commendable that the interpellant has such a focus on prevention here, because it helps to make this a debate that is about something more than the number of police posts. Then I understand that we also disagree with how many police college students have got a job – I have been informed that there are 290 of the 330 who have passed, and that is not so bad. Some of them are in vicariates, yes, but they're working. So there's the situation considerably better than described. I am very glad that the interpellant also liked what I said yesterday during the Jubilee of the Crime Prevention Council, because I believe so. And in this field, I operate with – I was saying – zero tolerance towards the police, municipalities, actors out there who believe that you don't have the opportunity to prevent. Because in this field – as in many of the other fields – we have great opportunities to prevent crime, and the fact that we have actually done so is also one of the reasons why we do not have the same challenge and problems around it that we see in a number of other countries. There is also the background to the government's decision to work on an action plan that will also prevent violent extremism and recruitment, or radicalisation, on which the interpellant was involved. And we see a lot of the same mechanisms and a lot of the same lessons that we've drawn especially from the rendition project in Oslo, the right-hand extremes -- how we've managed to drive an effective strategy to prevent recruitment into these environments. I am convinced that we can draw great exchangers on it, and that we can also go far with many of the same mechanisms towards, among other things. recruitment into MC crime. That is why I see the police working actively with prevention to the greatest extent, and there will be a stronger mandate against this. And it'll probably also be about something more than how many police positions you have; it's a little bit about how you actually work. I will continue to give the Right Honour for the attitude you have towards data storage, precisely because you ask yourself good questions about how to secure privacy in relation to data storage, while not giving it up as an instrument. It is striking to me that those who are perhaps the most active in terms of branding themselves as crime fighters in this country, now that they have resolutely closed the door to the methodology, what the police nation and beach around have said: this we must have the opportunity to do, we must continue to obtain traffic data in order to be able to map the movements especially to organized criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e807	At first I would say that I wondered if there had been any sourness in Dahl's calendar, because he said that the Right took this up last year. I ran a white paper instead of the 11th of March this year, where we discussed MC crime on the initiative of the representative Dahl in an interpellation he had on the same theme, but with a slightly different angle, among other things. gang war in Denmark. It's also a little unclear to me what was new in this interpellation, besides what we took up then. An article was mentioned in the newspaper, and something was mentioned about the Oslo police force and zero tolerance that I would like to comment on. An image of how to work with the MC bands in Oslo and otherwise in the Norwegian police, and how to work differently from the Danish police, could be the following: I got a description of the Danish police who were on a study visit here in Oslo to see why so much conflict between MC gangs had been avoided and violent incidents avoided in Norwegian MC environments. It is probably back to 1997–1998 that the really serious things about violence happened. The Oslo police invited the Danish delegation to an MC club, one of which we define as criminal MC clubs. They were initially very unsure whether it was possible to visit them. When they ventured into the lion's cave, they were served bread slice and coffee and sat down and talked to the veterans in this club. Then they told those who were there, that they hurried to call home to their headquarters in Denmark and told with a little eager voice that now they were actually in a criminal MC club and talking to the actors there. So the question is, given a comment from the interpellant: does this mean that there is no zero tolerance in the Oslo police as to how to work in the Norwegian police otherwise against these gangs? The difference is that you are very close to them, you talk to them, you have close contact, and you give warnings, but at the same time you take decisive action – you have always been racist and resolute – as soon as there is crime, there are illegal weapons, there are drugs, etc. in the environment. But at the same time, you have that close contact, that knowledge, that continuity of personality, etc., that you are able to go in and warn, register when things happen, for example. in the case of aid groups warned against in the Dagbladet Article referred to by the interpellanten Dahl. Rumors were heard that there could be such support groups in Oslo now, and then immediately the Oslo police, those who work with the gangs there, were on the plate and warned strongly. PST has used the same method when there have been such sympathies for others we want to keep away from in Oslo. They strongly warned, and we don't see any clue to the kind of tough criminal support groups that the MC environments in Oslo use to commit their crimes. I don't think you have it anywhere else in the country, even though there have been some very small coincidences. The continuity, the long experience, the personality, the ability to give warnings and be close to the environment is what also prevents Dahl from being properly involved in, namely recruitment, prevention – but notices when someone is on the way in and can take care of it. I believe that in the work on recriminalism in Norway and not least in the capital, we have some of the best examples of Norwegian police succeeding in combining preventive work, close contact with the environment and close humanities with strong intervention, with strength, with racism and using their full police force when necessary. I don't think we're going to build that debate on a totally incomplete and bad quote in the newspaper on zero tolerance, I think we should go into the working methods you actually use. Here, I think, we are very good at combating these kinds of working methods against the MC environments in Norway. The police are properly concerned, while working properly against the environment, and therefore they have managed to keep the conflicts at a low level. I think we should also learn here from these methods when we are going to go on with how we are going to build up reinvigoration and efforts against organised crime in other environments that are also stronger today and that dominate, for example, today. drug trafficking in Oslo. There we have not come as far as we have in relation to these kinds of environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e825	It is an important topic addressed by the interpellant, but it is not new that the so-called one-percent clubs in Norway have support clubs and will have more support clubs. We see that in other countries – the support clubs step in and do the rough work and skimp at their hands, so that the full members of the organized gangs do not get dirty at their hands. It's important that we're proactive about going to these one percent clubs. To try to minimize it, as I got a small impression that the representative of Bohemia did, we should be very careful with it. When the Danish police are invited to sit and eat bread slices with the experienced members of these organized gangs, I would rather say that it indicates a little more naivety than being active against the environment. I think one of the most important things we can do is be active, keep them under observation, keep them under pressure all the time, and don't let them get peace to do the criminal acts that they do. We look at experiences from other countries that these one percent clubs are also recruited by other organisations, mob organizations, to do their job. This is especially known in the United States and Canada, where one percent of the clubs aren't the bosses, but those who do the practical work for the mafia. This is also a situation we can expect to experience in Norway. There have always been many good suggestions on how to treat these one-percent clubs and what kind of measures are right. Some people have been involved in banning “colors” – the back tags they use – which I do not see is a very good solution. If they have their back tags on them, and they have that identity, they're at least easy to look at the street, and I think we should relate to that. I don't think there's any good solution to doing this. On the other hand, strengthening local police regulations and trying to regulate them away from the areas in which they want to establish themselves, I think is a more correct solution. We can use both police regulations and municipal statutes to prevent them from establishing themselves in the neighbourhood. I think it's a good thing to say that these are organized criminals who want to establish themselves, and we don't want them. There is also some of what I would like to address in this post, namely the terms ‘organised crime’ and ‘MC crime’. I get more people in the motorcycle environment, i.e. in the MC environment in Norway, who make up about 430,000 people, who drive motorcycles, who have this as a hobby, and who love to turn on motorcycles and have the relationship in such a motorcycle environment. These feel partly stigmatized. ‘MC crime’, ‘MC gangs’, ‘criminal MC people’ are the terms used for one percentage and they form a very, very, very small part of what is called the MC environment. Many of those in these one-percent clubs don't even drive motorcycles, they don't even have the motorcycle tag. Even the members of a so-called MC club are involved in crime. For me, these are nothing but an organized crime gang, just some type of mafia, and they're going to be treated then, they're going to be treated as just what they are: people who've gone together to run organized crime in order to make money in a better way than to run for themselves. Comparing them with and taking them into what's called the MC environment is going to be totally wrong for me. And we're going to be very careful to do that. As I said, those who drive motorcycles in Norway, who are concerned about it, feel a certain stigmatisation, and that is to the detriment of the 99 pst. by the motorcyclists who really want to be motorcyclists. Finally, I just want to comment so far on the Storberg budget. It's true that one grants 546 million. kr to the police, and that is so far good, but reaches 378 million. kr goes away in wage and price increases, there will not be so much free money left to do police work for. This has also been the case with the previous budget, for example. last year. There was a lot going on in funds that were already tied up — of course for good action — but the free means that the police are going to have to get the police out on the street, hire people, and do the day-to-day work are not big to boast of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e846	The next weekend Bandidos celebrates its first 15 years in Norway. It's going to be two big markers. There will be one in Drammen, and there will be one here in Oslo – probably the largest assembly of so-called one-percenters in Norway in a very long time, perhaps the largest ever. For the rest of us, this is a marking and a reminder that it was 13 years ago – in 1997 – an innocent, randomly passing human being was killed by the Bandidos bomb in the Drammen. That's the face of this one percent environment we're talking about here. According to Kripos country's best organized criminal networks, the one-percent environment is. That's why we fully agree with the Council's clarification that when we talk about MC crime and a percentage environment, we also talk about organised crime. It is an environment characterised by violence and threats, where large sums of money are involved in the business, and where the activity is increasingly borderless, across borders — and the activity in Norway is increasing. With reference to the Council of State's replies to the inter-pellant, I would say that government councils may be obliged to pay attention to budget figures, but for the right, this is not about a budget debate. This is a debate we want to address because, in our view, this is a fundamental social problem. In order to solve the problems of organised crime and the one-percent environment in particular, we need to talk about a whole new approach and a completely different focus than what has been in the past. I refer to the Right-wing Representative's proposal before the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which gives the United Kingdom a broad opportunity to deal with this at a later stage. So for us, this is a fundamental social problem. There are so many common features of the one-percent environment, with what we can call shadow societies, a society next to democracy, that grow out of environments characterized by a weak identity, because the family is weak, that the school does not follow closely enough, that child protection is not there enough, that it is a system that makes you rotless, that in this case leads to many – and in this case only young people, that is, boys – looking for environments where honor and honor are at the centre, because it creates identity. We have a lot of experience and research that shows that this is the first step on the way to an environment in which violence and fear are used as an instrument – first outwards to create peace of mind, but gradually to create loyalty. The next step in this development is that the environment is dominated by human beings. I can mention that in the MC Club Outlaws, which is the club that is perhaps the most growing at the moment, women cannot be members. The highest status a woman can have in the Outlaws MC club is as property of the club – the ‘property’ of the club. This is going to be a circle where you get a shadow society that evolves on the side of democracy. The percentage environment has all the characteristics of this vicious circle. That is why this is a social problem, and therefore this must be raised and made visible, of course, in budgets, but also in our approach to solving this, because we see that this environment also grows into legitimate business activities as part of and part of the money-laundering mechanisms and as part of moving these activities from the street into the offices. I, and we from the Right, think it is commendable that the Council of State is clear on this. We are looking forward to a wide-ranging debate, both in the context of the Right's proposal and in the context of the announced biggest message. We want – and I repeat it here also on this occasion – a broad political cooperation, because it is an important social problem that I hope an overall increase can meet actively and offensively in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e861	I thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. The interpellant also raised the question of radicalisation, especially self-radicalisation, and I'm going to add some comments to it initially. We had this theme at the dialogue meeting at the House of Literature this Sunday; there have been eleven dialogue meetings. We had the pleasure of having Storberget there, and it was announced that there is an action plan about this – I look forward to it. In connection with the book that I have published recently, I have traveled around Europe looking at the state of things and what is happening there, especially among Muslim youths growing up. It's disturbing what you see, and I see that a parallel can also be drawn to Norway. I describe this almost like we're at a crossroads. First-generation minorities, Muslims, who have traveled around Europe, have mainly engaged in their religion in practice. They have practiced religion in a practical way – they have prayed, they have gone into the mosque, they have built mosques. Second generation, however, both in the United Kingdom, France and other European countries, not least in Norway, have grown up to look after theoretical Islam. Here you find a lot on the Internet, you spend a lot of time here, and you have a lot of environments that are active in radicalizing young minds. Then we have a third generation element, which has grown up in the United Kingdom and, in particular, France, which lives on the side of society, which does not identify with the norms of society, and which, according to research reports from those countries, poses a threat to these societies. This may also happen in Norway if we do not work actively against these things. Torkel Breek, professor at the University of Oslo, put this into words and talked about that we also have to work closer with the conservative environments. The conservatives can be quite harmful to society, but at least they're not extreme, and they can be a counterpoint to the extremes because they can tell the youths what's the difference between what's right and what's wrong. The methods of the extremes we know very well. They both accept and applaud violence and appeal to the youth in the form that events like the September 11th and June 7th bombs in England are acceptable and correct. They accept violence against women, against wives, against homosexuals and against apostates, and not least they exercise a great deal of mental control. They like to call each other infidel — kafir, a well-known term — and they use the weapons of fear. One tries to defeat one's religion, and young people feel that their freedom is being squandered – not least their opinions are being squandered. So the methods are very strong. I am pleased that the representative Dahl addressed this question, focused on this, but I believe that this topic deserves much more attention and should be addressed in a separate interpellation. I'm sorry, but I'm just on the Stortinget and I don't have the opportunity to put this on track in full weight, but I hope that this can come up as a separate theme on the Stortinget, because it needs and deserves the widest possible debate and focus, so that you can collectively get to the right measures, and can help prevent this. In the case of the MC gangs, I've been a lawyer for six years, and I've seen how the organized criminal everyday life has grown in the last few years. New methods are needed here to prevent this as effectively as possible. The left is concerned that we should have the widest possible police cooperation across the borders between cities and the police districts. If ever more interaction is needed between police departments, it is right now. In addition, I believe that we need to work a lot on the prevention side, but the police need to be better trained to meet the new challenges we face with regard to the criminal environments, especially the organised criminal environment, which is becoming more professional and which uses new methods. There is also a greater need for the police to open up to civil servants, both engineers and technicians that you already have, and also people who have socio-scientific education. I think that'll be good for the police, especially when the organized people grow out of the traditional framework they've had to work with in the past. We in the Left look forward to the measures that will be more targeted at combating organised crime, in particular organised crime from the MC environments. We are looking forward to the widest possible debate, and I also hope, like previous speakers here, that we can have the widest possible cooperation that the whole of the Great Britain can stand together. I also look forward to the action plan notified by the Minister of Justice when it comes to other important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e880	It is gratifying to know that the conservatives are not extreme, although we in the Right can get the feeling of it when some on the left are attacking us in the welfare debate today. I want to highlight what is the Right point of the entire interpellation debate: it's that we're actually going to prevent rootlessness. We're going to prevent all of these boys, who are small inside, but who pump muscles to make them feel strong and need honor, to see the need and find other ways to solve their challenges. It's basically because this interpellation is about; they're not going to be recruited into negative environments, and we're not getting an increase in incidence, as the representative Werp was in, in business, where there are mafia-like conditions. To the TV3 program Build & Deception: There are quite a number of people who have experienced things that you should go after in the seams, the companies they have used, who they have associated to collect money, for example, how many of them are clean-haired companies – not only do they deliver a product, but they actually also deliver a little more than a serious company should deliver, in the form of knocking on the door of large, muscular men who do not have clean flour in the bag. The Council of State was concerned with this with police students who have passed and failed. I just want a clarification, because in an open hearing in the Justice Committee, it was informed that most of those who had not passed the shooting test had failed, and they were routinely offered temporary employment. Whether this is a new practice or a whole new number this year, I'd like to know. Otherwise, I have to say that I think it was a bit polite to listen to the Legal Spokesman of the Workers' Party, Mr. Bøhler, because what he said was a good bit away from the opposition role he has had in the media in many of these questions, where he has been concerned about quite a lot of the issues we are dealing with – also by chance on the basis of individual statements. It is good to see that the first Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee is better coordinated with the Council of State in the answers he gives here today. However, I think that he might not be so satisfied with the status quo, but, like his own government council, be concerned about doing things even better. I think the Council of State was significantly better in its answers. He was open and listening. It can't be that the role of an opposition party is just to sit and wait for issues from the government and can't fool things along the way. These are things we're concerned about. This extends over a wide field. So I allow myself, on behalf of the Right, to promote both questions and interviews about things we are asking, which we are not told about when we send written questions and do not sit in closed meetings in the government quarter. These are things that we care about, and that we are concerned about, and we want a more offensive policy and not just a status quo policy. I want to end by commending the Council of State for having an open attitude to discussing these kinds of questions. I think it's important that we have a debate before the action plan comes, so that we remind each other that it's actually a total increase that's concerned about this. Then it's actually the opposition's role to provide a little bit for a necessary effort, so that the government will present and promote new policies as quickly as possible. I would like to have a response to this with the recording and those who have not passed the shooting test. How many of them would be offered temporary employment anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e898	I'll check this out with those who haven't passed the exam. I'm not aware that there have been any practical changes in the employment of these, but we're going to check that out. So I just want to say, there would be a little bit special in a debate about organized crime, when we know that there can be particularly sharp situations and we need more policemen, that we're now almost putting the doors open so that those who haven't passed the shooting test will be allowed to work in the police. I'm very concerned about just these requirements that are being made for the Police College and the students there, and that exams are to be passed before people get work. If there's any new practice, you need to know about it. I don't think it's unreasonable to ask a college group, and that you expect the exam to be passed before you get a job, especially in the police. I'm really wondering about this. So I think this debate has been very good. My attitude is that in terms of organised crime, MC crime, and in particular the ability to prevent young boys from being specifically recruited into unwanted environments, there is every reason to listen to each other. One of my best experiences in creating prevention work has come to me by listening to former rapporteur Werp on how to steer and want to control their own municipality against just criminal MC environments. That was one of the reasons why we chose to use the police council mechanism outside, as the representative Ørsal Johansen did. So the question is, can you use, among other things, the local statutory provisions, police regulations or other things, and insofar as municipal decisions to prevent civil activity from these environments, which contribute to getting more footholds than it really is for. I also perceive that some of the most important things we have experienced in the last few years in this field, we have not received the consent of the representative Jan Bøhler. It has just been that Jan Bøhler has been the exponent for us to run rendition projects in Oslo. You haven't been sitting and waiting for what the government has come to, but you've actually been in good dialogue. So I see that there are a lot of people here who actually contribute very well. I share a lot of the considerations that Mr. Werp gives when he describes the design of these criminal environments. I believe that now we also have a good opportunity when the news of organized crime comes to discuss this. I listened to the hearing we had in the Control and Constitutional Committee, and also in this interpellation debate, it's actually the thing we want to bring with us in the big news. There may be further measures. Here we have to be open to listening, so that we get a broad political agreement to fight this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e913	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e929	I promise to put more commas and dots the next time I make an interpellation, because it was a terrible long sentence. I want to start with an important starting point, and it is that absolutely all the parties in this room want to continue working on getting more reconciliation transfers. The Council of State has promised full pressure for five years. There have been a few more, but in relation to the prison composition, there are not many. In relation to the level of ambition, it is likely that both government and opposition should take a few laps with themselves and look at both achieved, desired and possible results and take a turn in relation to the legal constraints that, after all, exist, to look at what can be implemented. The recent bilateral agreement with Romania is very encouraging. The Justice Committee met the Romanian State Secretary, who signed the agreement in Oslo, when the Committee visited Bucuresti. Her clear message to Romanian prisoners in Norwegian prisons – that they have something to wait for when they come home – and the attitude to the issue of the political openness experienced by the Committee from Romanian leadership in the Ministry of Justice – must be applauded. However, I would like to ask the Council of State in the most realistic way possible to explain the progress made in the entry into force of this agreement and the concrete level of ambition of the agreement, and what contacts, other countries with which we can soon sign similar agreements. At present, there are no EU self-regulations on settlement transfers. So you follow the lead on transmission under the Convention or through the Additional Protocol. In the first case, 27 countries are connected; in the second case, 22 are connected. In principle, Norway has the same potential for settlement transfer as EU countries. The EU Framework Decision on settlement transfer will enter into force in December 2011. The interesting thing about this is that the requirement that the jurisdiction and the country of origin of the judgment should consent to the enforcement of the judgment in the country of origin of the judgment is waived. It is a pre-requisite that the judgment is the citizen of the State of completion and that he/she actually lives there. In such cases, the waiver of the requirement of consent from the jurisdiction and the home Member State of the jurisdiction shall be independent of whether he is at that time in the jurisdiction or in the State of completion. The State budget announces its intention to apply for an accession agreement with the EU. I ask the Council of State to explain the progress and the position of Norway – which we know to a large extent is positive – and realism in relation to joining the EU framework decision. What signals have the Councils received as far as the wishes of the Norwegian authorities are concerned? For the Right, I can inform you that we will, of course, appropriately address it in all the areas of cooperation we have with our own sister parties and others in the EU. It is an ambition that I expect the Council of State to actively support its work as necessary, as we have a common interest regardless of party political stance in Norway. There is an increasing proportion of foreign nationals in Norwegian prisons. In 2004, there were 11.6 p.m. of all newcomers in prisons foreign nationals. In 2009, the figure was 23.4 pst. Of course, it creates significant challenges in terms of capacity, but not least pressure on employees in relation to the professional challenges they face every day. Of the new prisons in Norway in 2009, the majority were non-residents from Poland, Lithuania and Romania. But then there's a challenge, because if you're looking for statistics on what they're in for, we've only been able to find statistics back to 2006, and then drug crimes were the crime category for which most foreign citizens are in prison. There are also very small statistics on the type of crime that foreign nationals hold. There is a weakness that we seem to share with several countries, and I would like to ask the Council of State to give feedback on whether he will help us get a better statistical base that is also easily accessible. We on the right have started the investigation section here on the house, so they couldn't find statistics that were newer than from 2006. It is an important prerequisite for us to be able to discuss this type of issue and have a relevant political discussion about what action we are going to take. In addition to an increased number of settlement transfers, the Council of State has also announced that the government will establish its own prisons or non-resident detention centres that will not be repatriated in the Norwegian community. When the right took it up earlier this year, the impression was made that this was right around the corner, and that the plans were clear. In the budget, the description of the work is a little bit more sober. It says that consideration will be given to setting up own departments and own prisons, but there is nothing going on with the right acquaintance. We ask for feedback when we can expect that there will be established own prisons or foreign prison units. We have major challenges related to the import of foreign criminals. There are major professional challenges in terms of reconciliation and, above all, in terms of security for people in criminal care. We have now seen that the presence of violence against prison officers seems to be increasing, and the Right believes that it is problematic that so many of these cases of violence are actually reported. There should be a common policy on violence against public officials, whether he is a police officer or he is a criminal officer. In addition, the challenges facing interpretative expenditure are known to the Council of State. One question is, to what extent Norwegian prisons seem preventative at all. A prerequisite for at all prisons is – as we still agree – that prison sentences should be preventive, but then there is a moment for people coming from a completely different country, where we are used to completely different conditions, whether our prison services are particularly frightening, deterrent, and preventative, which we assume is for Norwegian citizens. What concrete plans does the government have for increasing compensation transfers, limiting the number of criminals entering the country, and reducing the number of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e957	I also thank you for this interpellation, sail if there's a tendency that the interpellant does the theme something bigger than what I actually have time to respond to. Now there were also questions about violence against the employees, interpreting expenses, own prison departments and about the prison as such seems preventative, and there were also, to all intents and purposes, questions raised about limiting foreign-related crime. I'm asking for understanding, because I think these are very interesting themes. But it's interpolated about settlement transfer as such and what kind of action we want to take. So I have to relate to it for temporal reasons. It's clear that we have an increase in the number of redemption transfers, and that this is a priority measure for government. Fortunately, the number of transfers has been increasing in recent years - 26 in 2007, 12 in 2008 and 30 in 2009 -. So far this year — and there are the latest figures from today — 31 people have been transferred to settlement in their home country, while decisions have been taken on transfer in another five cases. There's a lot of prison days that we're saving on this. I believe that the return to a crime-free life after settlement will be best if the punishment is carried out where the person is to be released. In order to increase the number of transfers, we need both measures that can strengthen cooperation with other countries and measures that are suitable to streamline our own procedures. I have undertaken, and I am considering, the following actions: Improving the effectiveness of proceedings in Norway. There has certainly been a basis for doing so. Here we are facing one of the major challenges, bringing together more sectors of the justice sector, whether you're a police lawyer, an investigator, a UDI worker or, for that matter, a criminal body. The measures taken include, inter alia,: Time-limits and simplified procedural procedures to counteract lying time and are expected to significantly shorten the length of proceedings in Norway. That's some of the reasons why we have increasing numbers. The government wants foreign citizens who commit crime in Norway to be apprehended, judged and expelled as quickly as possible. This year, we have reinforced the work of the police in the field of foreign affairs through a comprehensive package of measures. As of 31 August 2010, a total of 411 convicted foreigners had been transported by the Police Foreign Office, which was then finished. It is also an important aspect of this. In August, 60 out of 541 people were compulsorily deported, i.e. only in August. 31 non-resident prisoners have, as mentioned above, been transferred to settlement in their home country to date this year. This is very important work, and I think this is some of the reasons why we also see a decline, especially in mobile profitability. Under the European Convention of Transfers, to which the interpellant was subject, the law enforcement authority of the country of destination is responsible for collecting the judgment. The time between settlement transfer decisions and removal decisions varies, and there are examples that it can take up to three months from the decision on transfer decisions until the decision is taken. I am therefore now considering establishing a system in which Norway at the Foreign Office of the Police assumes responsibility for the transport. Following the EU framework decision on settlement transfer, the country from which the jurisdiction is transferred will be responsible for the shipment. The establishment of any transport system would be an adaptation to this future framework decision. A change in the foreign policy that allows the police to send advance notice of expulsion already when an action is taken is now at the hearing. In this way, expulsion decisions, such as: is a prerequisite for the settlement transfer by coercion, could be available at an earlier date – absolutely necessary, in my opinion. The law on the transfer of jurisdiction provides for the right to conclude bilateral agreements on the transfer of restitution. However, under the Transmission Act, bilateral agreements providing for the possibility of forced transfer to the home country in situations where there are no legally enforceable expulsion decisions are not currently permitted. This is unfortunate, and I am therefore working on a legislative amendment with the intention of extending the possibility of concluding such agreements. I have taken the initiative to conclude bilateral settlement transfer agreements with some central states to which Norway is transferring jurisdictions. This applies primarily to the three Baltic countries and Romania. We need agreements that impose greater obligations on countries to accept compensation transfers, while at the same time adding up to simpler procedural procedures and simpler conditions to transfer. The EU framework decision on settlement transfer, which enters into force in the EU in December 2011, is about this. The government therefore wants an accession agreement to the EU framework decision on the transfer of funds. As far as this work is concerned, we have chosen – in the first instance – to give priority to the EU as regards its accession to the Prüm Agreement. That's what we know. That deal's signed. The whole time after the signature of police cooperation was in place, we have been very active in notifying Norway in connection with the conclusion of the framework decision on settlement transfer, which is largely about accepting each other's decisions, criminal convictions, and which contributes to a much simpler procedure and sets deadlines, which are, of course, an Achilles heel in many of these cases. I'm glad if the Right, with its sister parties in Europe, can take this up and provide us with help against this, because there has been some resistance to a third country joining this framework decision. That's probably a lot of reasons. But at the same time, I would say that in the meetings I have had with the Commissioner both in the field and bilaterally with many countries – and I am going to discuss the issue with many of my colleagues now also in the autumn – I do indeed feel a more and more positive attitude that Norway is also going to take part in this work and not become a foreign country when it comes to the issue of compensation transfers, which could actually help people apply here to commit criminal acts, with a low risk of being sent back to their home country for compensation. So I have to say that I'm optimistic about this, but it's a long canvas to pale, just like the police cooperation agreement was. But at the same time we saw that we succeeded finally. So it's known, and it's important, that a settlement transfer agreement with Romania was signed on 20 September this year. I am proud and pleased with the work that the Ministry of Justice and my staff have done in this regard. I have been to Bucuresti several times in Romania, and I am also very pleased with how we were met by the Romanian authorities. It's an openness and a willingness not only to sign an agreement, but it should also work. I have to say that much of what I have heard, both through the Committee and also through bilateral contact, is very positive, about the committee on its journey and we, once we've been down there, have seen – and we know – that they have significant challenges in their own criminal care. It makes sense that it is important that we can also channel some of the EEA funds into this field. The bilateral agreement imposes a greater obligation on Romania than today to accept a request for settlement transfer. At the same time, procedural deadlines are in place which oblige the parties to deal with requests and to implement settlement transfer decisions more quickly than is currently the case. Moreover, the removal of expulsion orders in cases where sentences are Romanian citizens and are considered to be resident in Romania means that we do not wait for expulsion orders when convictions do not consent to the transfer. A period of six months remaining is still required to request a reconciliation transfer. The proposal to amend the transfer law that I mentioned earlier must also be adopted before the entry into force of the agreement with Romania. That means that if we are now able to deal quickly with this in Stortinget, it will at least be clear from the Norwegian authorities the more political issues to be resolved, in the next six months, in my opinion. That must be possible. But then we're also dependent on Romania following up in its own way. There, of course, I do not have the same power to influence neither speed nor content of the decision. Negotiations with Latvia on a similar agreement concluded with Romania have now begun. I would also like to say that, in addition to these efficiency measures, we rely on good international cooperation to achieve good results. Swallow if there is at any time quite a large number of foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons, estimated at about a year. 150 people who could potentially be transferred — it is important to bring them, it brings the size into it — will have endured the punishment in custody by many of those in Norwegian prisons. This means that many of them have such short judges that they are not involved in the transfer of compensation, no matter what kind of arrangements we might have. Any agreement to the framework decision will also have criteria in place to ensure that it will still be around 150-200, as we have estimated, which are relevant for the settlement transfer. That means that we still have a potential. That's why I've worked a lot to get the number up from 0, 4 and 5, as it was under the previous government. Now we're up to 31 this year, but we have the potential to go even further. It is important not only for the capacity of Norwegian prisons, but in particular in order to limit the type of crime we see that Norwegian citizens are affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e999	When it comes to the ability of the Council of State to say a lot in a short time, it is possible that I overestimated him, but I don't think so. I have a great deal of faith in the fact that it is possible to ask a lot of questions and get answers to them and much more given the level of knowledge and ability of the Council of State to say a lot in a short time. I realized that he responded to a good deal. Now it is that when a person asks questions about measures to reduce the number of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons, there are implicitly quite a number of things that it would be natural to say something about. At least the councils were in any of that. One thing I didn't get to say in the explanatory statement is that I also think it's important that we stick to some basic principles about how we treat people. For some of the things that also made an impression on us as committee members when we visited the prison in Bucuresti, were actually the ones we met there. When you see 14- to 15-year-old boys standing there trembling, no matter what they've done, it makes a deep impression on us as humans, because they have probably a background story that's not exactly the most beautiful. So when we're going to send people out as quickly as possible in order for them to zone in their home country, it has to happen within the framework of the fact that there are people we're talking about, and not parcel post. I am very pleased that this agreement has been reached with Romania. It remains to be seen how effectively it will work. However, what I would like to ask more about is the concrete results that are believed to have been obtained from this work in relation to bureaucracy, because at least there is something very specific that the Norwegian authorities have not done so much with the last few years, but action has been taken now. Do you have any concrete results to point out, any concrete expectations as to what this should pass on? As far as Latvia is concerned, I would like to ask for a comment on when you assume that you can start getting into a position where you can sign an agreement. It is probably too early to say anything about, but a sketch for propulsion would have been good to get. On the issue of the EU, of course, the Right believes that this is a good argument that we should be a member of the EU. Because there's an area we know that evolution is becoming more and more dynamic, it's in the field of justice. We are part of the European Union via the EEA. We're part of the bureaucracy. Unfortunately, we are not part of democracy. It creates challenges, because we import criminals, like goods, with whom we are unfortunately not allowed to do anything because we are not part of judicial cooperation. Although we have many accession agreements and the Council of State is very active, it would have been beneficial if we had applied for Norwegian EU membership immediately. It's a debate that I don't think we should take here. It'll probably take a few years before we get there. I think that at least this makes the challenges we face in this area visible, that it is a problem for us that we need to beg and pray to have accession agreements with the EU on a very important issue for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1012	I'll try to take back some of the interpellant's questions now. That's good questions, because it's very much about what we're doing to limit the kind of crime that we see foreign citizens commit in Norway. I believe it is very important that we not only think about the police, judgement and reaction here at home, but that reconciliation transfer has an incredible amount of general prevention in itself. So, of course, we're going to include the incredibly important moment that the interpellant picks up, that we shouldn't miss, I was just saying, the humane considerations about what kind of relationship we're sending people back to. That's one of the reasons why you don't do it all over the world. Because there are significant challenges also in those countries to which we have the opportunity to return. We need to focus on that. Then I would say that the effort force that was deployed during the last year, which has contributed to us, for example. In Oslo, there has been a fall in the number of gross house invasions of 48 p.m., showing that it is possible to take action to address this crime and to dampen the influx. But then we see that we get more pressure in prison, for natural reasons, when the police do their job, and then we experience what's happening now. For the interest of the inter-pellant and others: today we have an overview of how many foreign backgrounds are in Oslo prison, and also in Ullersmo. We see that of foreign citizens in custody in Oslo prison, we have 185 pieces, and we have 51 sitting on the ground. Seven of these are involved in the settlement transfer, assuming adequate settlement length, etc. and fall within the scope of the agreements – seven paragraphs. And that's who we're working with. At Ullersmo, we have 34 with a foreign background in custody, and 75 in judgment. A total of 15 of them are concerned for housing transfer. That's why the number can't be as high as the total number in Norwegian prisons at any time, but we still see that we have a potential beyond the level we're at. But when I see at the same time that we're able to grow in these numbers, at least I'm going to be optimistic; here's the possibility. With regard to the Norwegian procedures on these matters, I believe there are two reasons why we have seen that this is of great importance. What's really the reason we're growing now is that we have a different procedure. The first is that there will be a faster procedure. We're totally dependent on that, otherwise the term goes out. The second is that we have to place the initiative to start the process of requesting a reconciliation transfer clearly within the organisation. A police lawyer can feel that he's done with the case when he's in court; then he's kind of done with it. But we need to take the initiative somewhere to raise these issues. That is why I have also established what I have called – in English – a ‘task force’, so that you can always see who is involved in the reconciliation transfer and is located on the respective agencies, so that they are identified and given the procedure they are going to have, so that we can manage to transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1025	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising this debate. It has been and has been a topic of great cross-political interest and agreement. I would like to begin by saying that open borders in Europe have been positive for development in most countries — including Norway. A more free flow of labour, an improved understanding of each other's cultures and better cooperation are some of the positive aspects. But the medal, which we're very aware of, also has a backside, among other things. as regards the increase in crime committed by foreign nationals. It is enough to mention both winning crimes, drug crime and trafficking in human beings. This poses major challenges for our society – and, in particular, the justice sector. This increase in crime has been noted by both police and prosecution authorities, the courts, criminal and foreign agencies. This presents new and demanding challenges, including in our prisons. Employees sometimes report major problems with daily communication due to language and cultural differences, leading to both misunderstandings and conflicts. Language problems also lead to increased expenditure on interpreting services, as the others have experienced. This is a new everyday life that we have to deal with and handle in the best possible way. In the 2011 draft State Budget, the Ministry of Justice reports that they will consider organising their own prisons or prison departments for foreign prisoners. I assume, of course, that it is intended for foreign prisoners without a residence permit. We all agree that non-resident convictions without a residence permit should be returned as soon as possible to their home country, well to note under certain conditions, which has been affected previously here. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice is responding so well and thoroughly to this interpellation. The Minister of Justice is fully pressurised both to streamline the processing time in the transfer cases and to establish bilateral agreements with the most relevant countries, pending the entry into force of the EU framework decision on settlement transfer. This is very good, and it shows that we have an offensive minister of justice who takes the challenges very seriously, and of course we also understand that it's not just pinching your fingers, and so it's done, but that it requires a long-term job. Another area where the government and the Minister of Justice have a great deal of attention is the fight against crime committed by asylum seekers and other foreigners. The fact that the police got $18 million. kr in the state budget earmarked for the investigation of serious and cross-border crime is very important in this picture. We also see that strengthening the work of the police in the field of foreign affairs gives a good count, among other things. in the form of several shipments. We've only seen that in the last few days. In its reply, the Minister of Justice addresses several other areas that are important for increasing the number of settlement transfers and reducing the number of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons. Although the Norwegian authorities are implementing effective measures and agreements to ensure more settlement transfers, we will certainly experience that many are still coming here to commit criminal acts. Of course, the reasons for this are complex, but we know that many have been driven here because of great distress and poverty in their homeland. They have little or nothing to live on, and feel compelled to commit criminal acts to feed themselves and their families, either in their own country of origin or by going abroad, to survive. We also know that people are recruited through traffickers in their home country, and then transported, for example. to Norway in order to beg, steal or commit other pernicious acts that are often criminal. Furthermore, we know that many organise their own criminal gangs specializing in winning crimes, drugs or prostitution here to land. This is why a broad range of efforts from democracy building and development in countries with high poverty for action against trafficking in human beings and active international police cooperation are very important in preventing and combating crime committed by foreigners in Norway. With such a broad effort, we can also prevent many foreigners from being given a residence permit in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1048	I'm going to be a little careful about showing pride, but when I listen to the debate – and all the honour of the inter-pellant to promote the inter-pellation – I hear that someone kind of thinks that it's only now that the debate is coming, and that you're happy that someone has raised the debate. I've been at Stortinget for 13 years, and that's not the first time the debate is here. It's been warning against this development for all 13 years I've been at Stortinget. The NRK had a documenter yesterday who showed that some big business representatives and individual parties already 15 years ago warned against this development. That's why it's a little strange that someone is happy that the debate is coming now, and it says that it's kind of not just pinching, it's done. No, that's not it. That is why someone has wanted to take this debate and get action in place at a much earlier time, because now we are in a situation where it is getting serious. In fact, I think the Minister of Justice's reply to the interpellant here today was very good. It's quite right that the interpellant also points out that the interpellant raises a number of other questions. It's not just compensation transfers that are the answer to the challenges we're facing. I note that the agreement with Romania, which is now signed, will not immediately lead to a better situation. I also interpret the Minister of Justice as saying that the kind of agreement will only take a small part of the challenges we face with foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons, in fact only 7-8 pst. For it will still be the case that foreign criminals with short sentences in Norway will zone in Norway. It will be impossible to get a redemption transfer of them. It's kind of interesting to see how long judges the foreign criminals have, and then I think we're going to have a surprise. However, I feel confident that the government and the Minister of Justice are taking seriously the debate on the framework decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. The Committee has also written letters to the Minister of Justice asking for a broader assessment of Norway’s early arrival. A wish of the Committee – cross-political, I think – is that we join the rest of the EU in 2011. Something else will be a little bit difficult. I, the undersigned, shall also travel with the President of the Grand Duchy to Brussels from 9 to 10. November. The Committee then asked me, among other things. address this issue, so we're focusing on it. And I have full confidence that the Minister of Justice also has that. But when I go into the story here, it's also to point to the debate we had about EU enlargement with 15 countries. This debate was then on the agenda. No one took it seriously then, but perhaps someone could take it a little more seriously afterwards. So Romania may now become a full Schengen member in March next year, unless the EU stops it in some way. There will also be other countries that have free access when the visa requirement is removed. I believe that the challenges we face with regard to criminals entering Norway that commit criminal acts, and that we fill our institutions with criminal foreigners, are just in a start-up phase. That is why I also understand that it is not just a pinch, but that there are a lot of measures that need to be taken. Prevention is one of the issues that we are dealing with in the Committee now in relation to the standard of Norwegian housing. I record that more people now, both the Right and the Government, want to look at the issue of alternative compensation for foreign criminals – departments, own prisons, social schemes and financial payments. It needs to be put in place quickly, as it is as important as joining the framework decision, and as important as preventing from even larger waves of foreign criminals to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1065	In its response to the interpellant, at least in my opinion, the Council of State has a very active approach to the question we are dealing with, and that is good, while I have to be allowed to say that from the Right we are still impatient on this issue. At the same time, we are also realistic, because it is clear that this is a complex and complex theme, with many facets and many dimensions. Of course, humane concerns are at the heart of us, and an approach to the existence of significant formal provisions which also mean that there are no simple answers and simple solutions. For us, this is about a lot of things, but not least about prevention. One thing is that by releasing space in Norwegian prisons, we reduce time from one prison to another — and that is positive. But for us, it is also not least that we want to prevent networking in Norwegian prisons between Norwegian and foreign criminals by teaching Norwegian languages to foreign citizens in prisons, establishing a community of acquaintances that can be used for criminal activities, and not least that there can be a nearly two-way exchange of professional profession – criminal profession – with which Norwegian society is by no means served. As I said, we are still impatient to see if we can increase the number of redemption transfers, while at the same time we are realistic about the time it takes for the number of people that can actually be transferred. In this context, we have already made proposals from the Right to look at the possibility of setting up own departments in Norwegian prisons for foreign nationals, to see if it can at least mitigate the negative effects that I have pointed out, by the fact that there is now a common settlement for Norwegian and foreign nationals. As I said, for the right, this is about prevention in the big picture, and it is also about the clear use of signals from the Norwegian community to potential foreign criminals who want to come here to carry out their activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1076	Foreign criminals make up a relatively large proportion of those admitted to Norwegian prisons. This is a consequence of crime and criminals moving more across borders than before. It is an open goal that the most possible sentence should be given in the home country, but it has been found to be more difficult than would be desirable to get a reconciliation transfer often and quickly enough. That is why it is good that the debate is raised in Stortinget through, for example. one of those interpellations that we've been leading here today. Better yet, the government is doing targeted and handcuffs to get more reconciliation transfers in the future. A good cooperation between the judiciary and foreign administration is, as the Minister of Justice just said, essential to bringing down the number of foreign criminals in prisons here to countries. There have been horrendous examples in the media of foreigners who, having been guilty of serious assault sentences, have been sentenced to the full sentence here, and who are released on the streets again because the mission decision is not clear. The fact that new women are subjected to the extreme violation and violence that an assault warrant is of the same perpetrator is unsustainable. Among other things, in order to avoid such situations, ongoing streamlining measures are important to shorten the follow-up of the procedure. In order to obtain settlement transfers by coercion, there is a premise that expulsion decisions are at an earlier stage. Therefore, there is a progress when it has been sent out on the phone a suggestion that the police should have their home to send out a pre-dispatch notice when the interview is signed. Furthermore, the law should provide for the possibility to conclude bilateral agreements which open up the possibility of a compulsory transfer to the home country even before the adoption of a legally binding decision. The fact that the Minister of Justice has proposed a legislative change to make this possible is one of several signs that the government takes the issue of compensation transfers very seriously and makes important steps. The goal is clear, and we all share it: Most possible foreign criminals should be punished in their home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1089	The representative Sandberg was quite right: Norwegian authorities have been naive about what open borders mean for very many years. I also believe that the representative Sandberg was concerned about something central, namely that we must also look at our level of punishment, and to what extent there are consequences that we do not think about when, for example, we do. reduce the level of penalties. I am thinking back then of debates we have had on criminal law, on criminal services, on police reporting – key basic documents for our entire sector. The debate we have now is just a very small part of the debate on the basic documents that must lead to other policies. It says something about the fact that we haven't necessarily been prepared for the evolution we've seen. Therefore, it is good to see that the Council of State has the offensive attitude he now has, and that the whole Stortinget is behind it. But I think we need to take on board more fully when we discuss central justice policy challenges, that we can't afford to think that what we think will work well for so-called ethnic Norwegian citizens, will work very poorly and act as a criminal promoter, given that it becomes even more attractive to travel here to commit crime. We must be so honest! We must remember to take that debate in relation to those matters. I guess we've been awkward about the debate for quite a number of years. A link is also to the previous interpellation. It's important to do it to prevent, just because 1 pst. of the MC environment or organised criminals, of course, will make the most of the hole and travel where there is the most money to pick up, where there is the least chance of being taken, and where there are the least consequences. So finally, two of the questions that were not answered. Both the Council of State and I have a tendency sometimes to be torn by our own words, so I'm going to make very clear the two questions. One is that there are no publicly available crime-type statistics available for foreign criminals since 2006. Will the Council of State take the initiative to facilitate more publicly available statistics, so that we can see what kind of crime they actually have, because that is a prerequisite for taking the necessary decisions and deceiving things here in the Storting? The second is the creation of own departments or prisons. It is stated in the budget that it is ‘estimated’. Does it mean to consider whether you want it at all, or is it an assessment of when and how? There are two questions I asked, which I did not quite remember to ask when I took the word the last time – I was torn down. That is why I repeat the two questions, and hope that the Council of State can answer them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1098	In terms of the statistics on the area and the possibilities of identifying what this really is about, there is a lot in the mission that the underlying agencies have received, because we need to map out how many potentials can be transferred. I am not ready now to answer whether it can be made publicly available, but will take it with me, because that may be interesting information. In this way, the initiative on the basis of the facts has been taken, and I will come back to publication. Then I just refer to the budget on the question of own prisons. When 1,100, well one third of the prisoner population in Norway, comes from abroad, it's said that we're not just talking about our own departments. There is then a significant proportion of Norwegian prisons. It's an assessment of what we're going to do with how we're going to place these, whether there's a need to designate departments or prisons for this. We're not done with that. But at the same time, I have to say that we have already made transfers and made assessments of where these are going to sit. This has also been taken into account, among others. that those who are going to use Halden prison must to a large extent be Norwegian citizens who can benefit from the rehabilitation measures that are there and from which a foreigner would benefit to a very small extent. I think that, insofar as the representative Sandberg raises an interesting debate on the issue of the length of penalties for those who come to Norway and commit criminal offences. I believe that many of those offences must be severely punished, and that is also in the new penal code. At the same time, some of us discuss, and look at the possibilities, whether it will now be most important that we get effective posting and settlement in home countries instead of targeting long sentences here. I am of the opinion that getting the expulsion decision effective is very important – there is an incredible amount of general prevention in it – and also getting an entry ban, a ban on returning to Norway, and making it as soon as possible. That is what we are looking at, and I must say that in this context it is gratifying that, until 31 August of this year, we have been expelled and executed by 411 foreign citizens who have committed criminal offences, and during the same period have been repatriated – now we are up to – 31. It's going to be a pretty big volume. And the fact that police aliens have such a good grip on this is good – 60 pieces just in August. I'm going to continue a strategy that's going to implement these foreign policy decisions. In this, there is an enormous amount of general prevention to prevent foreign-related crime from spreading more than it has already done in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1110	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1124	So this is the second treatment in Stortinget, i.e. that this is the old coating treatment. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1144	I have looked forward to this debate. There has been a lot of focus on trains for the transport committee. We've also focused on wanted links to planes, and there's always a lot of focus on the roads. That is why I thought it was very nice to have maritime transport on the agenda, because I know that this is a topic that concerns the Council of State and that concerns her. From sea to sea has been a political objective for a long time. Most of the parties have it in their policy programmes, as mentioned in Soria Moria I and II, in Climate Change 2020, and in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. It says: «The aim is to help maritime transport to increase its share of the expected growth of transport.» The reason why a person wants to get more transport from road to sea is open. The transport sector accounts for a large proportion of emissions of CO2 – 35 pst. The maritime transport also contributed in isolation to large emissions, but CO2 emissions per tonne-kilometre are lower by boat than by car, partly well below the emissions to the car. In addition, large reductions are needed, for example by increased use of LNG and new hull and propulsion structures. Thus, maritime transport is environmentally friendly and climate friendly both today and in the future. The climate 2020 report states among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In maritime transport, the reduction potential is intended to be greater in Climate Course Analysis than in the comparative material here being a global average.’ Maritime transport is also highly socio-economically favourable. When I went to the Sunday ball, I sang: «My boat is so small and the sea is so large.» Today's boats are much larger. A normal boat that runs in a route in Oslofjord today, takes about 500 containers. When the double-track Oslo-Ski is finished, one can increase the capacity of 750 freight cars per day – that is, no more than one-two boats. This shows that the potential for transporting goods by sea is very high if properly arranged. If the boats have grown larger, the sea is still the same size and requires very little maintenance. Many of the costs involved in road and rail are ‘included’ in maritime traffic. Then I am at my third point: the reduction in the burden on maritime transport can contribute to the road network. We are dealing with the 2011 state budget these days, and we know that the maintenance life is great. Reduced heavy goods transport on the road network can contribute to significant reductions in the cost of maintenance, to reduced noise and, in particular, to reduced accidents. The cost of triggering the potential does not need to be large, and perhaps a saving will be more than that of an investor. Although the advantages of transferring goods from road to sea are obvious, the large shift seems to be waiting. Looking at the development of domestic maritime transport, he has fallen from nearly 70 pst. from 1960 to 45 p.m. today. At the same time, road transport has increased sharply. Better road standards and better cars have contributed to this. From the end of the 1980s, transport by sea and road has been around jamstore, overall. See more regionally, for example. On the relationship between Oslo Harbour and the traffic across Svinesund, the image becomes even clearer. According to TØI, transport in so-called ‘unit loads’ over Oslo port has been similar in about the whole period 2000–2007. Over Svinesund, the increase in the same time period has been almost as high as the annual volume of Oslo port. When the amount of transport increases year by year, we see that this creates pressure on the road network, perhaps especially here in Austland. This selects one in Eastfold. It's barely two years since Østfold got a new four-field E6 motorway. The state road system in Eastfold had been expecting a decline in traffic this year, but they are experiencing an increase of 6 pst. A look-up in the NRK Eastfold on 7 September this year found that if the same growth continues in Eastfold, the E6 will be too small in 14 years. If so, what? The country leader is ready in his speech – and rightly so – we can't build E6 even more. But he also says, ‘It is only the railway that can relieve the transport of goods on the roads to some extent.’ Yeah, what about a boat? I ask. What about seeing more holistic connections between boat, car and path? Fortunately, the Vegvesenet in Østfold pointed to both sea and railway in the same look-up at NRK Østfold, and I am overconfident that much of this traffic could go by boat to a large extent. In Eastfold this is much about transit traffic from the continent, which is increasingly on the road. After several journeys around the country with the Transport Committee, we know that the pressure on the road increases in several places around the country. I believe there is a great potential for using a boat along the coast, both by renewing the fleet and by providing better infrastructure for ports. I believe that there are mainly three grips that must be taken to increase the use of the boat: As you know, the Christian People's Party has a proposal for a representative to abolish the establishment of a transport establishment for all modes of transport. This is also where maritime transport has moved forward. There have been changes and improvements to look at the transport modes in the context. Among other things, we have a transport committee in Stortinget, and we have a national transport plan, but there is a need for even more interaction on the planning side. One should not go back many years before a thoughtful road alone, railway alone and port and sea apart. I'm afraid that society has made several misinvestments because one hasn't looked at this and used it best in all modes of transport. What would be e.g. had happened in Rogaland if one had had a more coordinated planning in its time? Would the new freight terminal be added to Ganddal, well 15 km from the port of Risavika? The second is that fees have to be reviewed, taking into account both the level and the structure. A reduction in charges will in several cases contribute to the fact that the bill for the carrier is in favour of maritime transport. The ports are central to getting goods across from road to sea. Why is it that most of the maritime transport charges go to the state, and a relatively small part goes to the ports so that they can evolve? In Tromsø it is e.g. so that of the fees a boat has to pay, 65-70 pst. the fees for the Coastal Works, while the rest goes to the port of Tromsø. The question is also whether we need to redeploy the tax burden between modes of transport in the future. Climate change 2020 states: ‘Tax systems can contribute to a reasonable distribution of freight between road, sea and rail. ‘This is important. Finally, we have to ask ourselves whether we distribute the funds in the NTP in a good enough way in terms of investment. In NTP 2010–2019, 6 pst. of the total expenditure for maritime transport. For example, what would happen if we increased the percentage to 7? I'm aware that overall there's a good increase here too, but we also need to see this distribution in conjunction with a holistic planning. Many of the funds go to investments in rentals, and that's good. But in the future, we also need to focus much more on investment in road and rail to ports, otherwise ports become a clot and not a hub in the transport chain. When the political parties are so cohesive in their programmes that maritime transport must be given priority, when the benefits of investing in maritime transport are so many and clear, it must also be possible to identify and prioritise the grips that can lift maritime transport. I feel that more and more people see the benefits and importance of investing more strongly in maritime transport. I am therefore very excited about what plans and strategies the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast will brief us on today, not least because we know that the government is now working on the Climate Change Communication – and in that message I see that maritime transport should and must have an important place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1197	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter, and, as the representative pointed out, I am also very concerned about the major challenges we face today in terms of transport and the environment. In particular, it is a challenge to transfer transport from road to the more environmentally friendly options of sea and rail. Then we see that both passenger and freight transport are increasing. In terms of freight transport, the forecasts tell us that we will have an annual growth of 1.5 pst. towards 2040. So the freight will be about 50 pst. higher in 2040 than it is today. At the same time, the analyses show that growth will be higher on the road than at sea. As the interpellant well described: this is challenging in many areas – road safety, road capacity and, above all, climate policy. Thus, through Soria Moria II, the government emphasises that more transport is to be transferred from trucks to ships. The government’s policy and strategy to strengthen maritime transport are presented in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. Compared to the previous transport plan, the government is proposing to increase the annual framework of the maritime transport area by 77 pst. The enhanced framework is intended both to strengthen investments and the maintenance of the maritime route and to reduce the level of fees and charges. But this government does not just point to good intentions through the planning work. We also follow up through practical policies. We have followed up on maritime transport in the national transport plan through the 2010 budget and beyond in the recent draft budget that we have presented for 2011. In the 2011 budget, the Government proposes to increase the State allocation of maritime transport measures under the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs by around 118 million. kr. This means that we are on a good path to comply with the framework of the national transport plan. Then, in many contexts, there has been a sign that maritime transport is not competitive because there is a greater degree of user funding here than for other modes of transport. It's a signal the government is taking seriously. In Soria Moria II and the National Transport Plan, the government is therefore committed to reducing the level of fees and charges for maritime transport. Thus, the national transport plan provides for improvements in the 115 million user payment of maritime transport. kr. It shall be realised by abolishing the coastal charge and the annual port security charge. Overall, the level of these charges will be reduced by 70 million. kr. A further reduction must be followed up in the future budgets. A review of the pilot service, which aims to improve efficiency and quality assurance, has also been announced in the national transport plan. I aim to ensure that new regulations on compulsory unloading and unloading can come into force from the end of the year. It is crucial to ensure maritime safety along our vulnerable coasts, so the proposals for changes that are coming are based on external analyses of the level of safety. These analyses indicate that the unincorporated traffic can be reduced by between 10 and 15 pst. while maintaining the level of safety of the day. Furthermore, it is proposed that the qualification of the qualification scheme be made simpler and more economically viable. This system means that unincorporated ships can be operated without being unloaded when the ship's navigator has the necessary competence. The ransom service is 100 pst. funded by users. The overall cost reduction as a result of these amendments is estimated at about Twenty-eight million. kr. Once shipping has been adapted to the new FAD scheme, the annual cost reduction may be increased. But if we are to achieve the objective of transporting more goods by sea, we must also ensure good interaction between modes of transport. As a rule, the goods do not have their end station in the port. It has to go on the road or on the railway. In the national transport plan, therefore, the Government has an expressed objective to facilitate combined transport modes by improving, where possible, the interaction between ships, cars and railways. In my opinion, this interaction is perhaps even more interesting than competition between modes of transport. Therefore, 31 ports are defined as main ports in the national transport plan. These ports are an important link point between maritime and land transport, and they will be prioritised when there is a need to improve the infrastructure in order to connect the various modes of transport. By putting concrete improvements into the transport plan investment programme, the government shows that action is actually behind the objective of seeing the modes of transport in the context. Good examples, which I can mention here, are the arrival at the southern port of Oslo and road projects with significance for the ports of Kristiansand and Tromsø. Societal development has required modern and dynamic port and water legislation, and from 1 January this year we have been given a new port and water law. The new law is an important tool to support maritime safety and better maritime accessibility, and in particular the law is important to enable ports to develop as an efficient logistics hub. But then the government can not only strengthen maritime transport and transfer goods from road to sea. There are certainly more people here who have to contribute. Firstly, ports have to offer cost-effective transhipments between maritime and road transport, and since most ports are municipal, this means that local politicians also have an important role to play in ensuring good framework conditions for ports. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is already in the process of implementing the next transport plan, which will apply for the period 2014 to 2023. The government will continue to focus on concrete measures that will provide efficient ports and maritime transport. But it is also the case that, in order for the next transport plan to be good, the departments have asked the transport modes how we can create effective hubs for freight transport. We have also asked that the agencies assess where maritime transport has its advantage and, above all, its ability to strengthen competitiveness. The government is engaged in cooperation to increase the transport of goods on the keel. With that in mind, I am going to invite selected representatives both from the ports, from shipping companies, and not least from the goods side, who are actually going to implement what we work so hard to achieve, to discuss more issues related to maritime transport, and what strategies are needed to succeed in achieving the goal of getting more goods on the keel. Finally, I would like to stress that I share the interpellant's commitment to strengthening the position of maritime transport in the market. The Government has shown clear commitment and efforts to strengthen maritime transport through the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the government’s draft budget, the drafting of new legislation and not least by reducing the level of fees and charges for maritime transport. However, this government will not rest on the results we have achieved so far. We will continue to work actively in the future to strengthen the position of maritime transport as an environmentally friendly and forward-looking mode of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1231	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for a thorough and good report showing the extensive work being done in this area. I'm very happy about that. I am also pleased with the signal that the government is taking seriously the challenge that, among other things, are in the tax regime. Because of the tax regime we have, other and less environmentally friendly modes of transport are actually given priority. I think it is important to establish that prioritisation of maritime transport is not a deprioritisation of other modes of transport. If we are lucky enough to get more goods by sea, it will be better for the drivers and those using the roads. So this is a win-win situation in relation to the other modes of transport. When the government is now working on Climate Change, it is a great opportunity to highlight maritime transport and rail as some of the most environmentally friendly modes of transport. Just to take a small, concrete example: when a boat goes between Norway and abroad, skip the boat's NOx fee, but as soon as he enters two ports, it becomes a full NOx fee. It does not exactly stimulate the good exploitation of ships and maritime transport. I think it's an example that the government can take with them when they're working on a climate cure, which I think might be a cornerstone of taking new steps in this area. So I also share the opinion of the Council of State that the budget presented is good. I have said that, and I have made it clear when it comes to transport. What I think has been positive about the budget is that the government has shown that they will meet the NTP during this period. But at the same time, we also see that developments are still negative within a part of the sector. We should have greater ambitions. It is also a challenge for maritime transport. Because when we look at developments, and hear them speak as the Council of State now presents about the expected increase in goods, we can't be happy with the developments we've seen in the last 30 to 40 years. This isn't about allocating political blame or not, it's about turning a development that we in all the political parties have said we want, but we don't entirely have the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1250	First of all, I want to thank you for the rose. I'll take that. Nor do I hide that I am very happy with the budget I have in this area. I am of those who have worked the hardest and most intensely to bring down the use of oil money. When it comes to prioritizing, this is definitely an area that I am very pleased that the government is prioritizing, because it is important. It's important for the climate. It is important for road safety, and I dare say that it is important for the overall reputation of business as compared to taking the climate seriously. I fully agree that prioritizing this area definitely does not mean depriving the other modes of transport. On the contrary, it means that, first of all, one is given a clear space for passenger transport, which obviously has to be done either on the road or on the road, and that means that, at least in the foreseeable future, for some modes of transport it is not possible to imagine that one can have goods on board, all the time a lot of transport is urgent more than others. I even come from an industry where the hours mean a lot to get the goods out quickly, that is, fresh fish and other fresh goods. But that means it's all the more important to get other transports on the keel. I am very pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that this is important. So this can both government and big business work and facilitate, but you're totally dependent on business. I can do that a little bit. In fact, I think that inviting the product owners to discuss this might do something about – call it like – the attitudes, because I think there's some old-fashioned thinking behind some of the choices that the product owners make. There I can actually use the aquaculture industry as a good example, which up to a few years ago basically transported everything on the road, even the fish feed that was to be used at sea. It came to the ports and was driven out to the sea. So it went on the road. For all practical purposes today, it has moved over to the keel all of it. I think it shows that it's about the thinking that the product owners are doing. That's why I want to invite the product owners to work on a strategy, so that you can get even more clarity about what we have to do to make the choices different from those you take too much today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1257	Freight transport by sea and by rail has lower emissions than road transport. At the same time, increased road traffic leads to an increase in accident rates. That is why the Hareide initiative today is important, also because it is good to develop new ideas on how to get more goods to come and go by sea. Today, as much goods are transported on the keel as on the road. But as the Council of State was also involved, developments seem to be going in the wrong direction. Road freight transport shows an increasing trend. That's why it's important to work actively to get more goods on the keel and track. We've done a lot in this area in the last few years, and the Council of State was in it. High ambitions also for maritime transport in the national transport plan from last year and the follow-up to the ambitions of the budgets for 2010 and 2011 are important. Measures in the rental sector and in a number of port basins are important for both the safety and efficiency of maritime transport. Rehabilitation of rentals a number of sites such as Karmsundet at Haugesund, Lepsseirevet at Ålesund, Måløysundet and not least the entrance to Borg Hafen in Østfold are under way thanks to a more liberal budget. Onshore action is also important in order to make it attractive to reload into a boat. We're not on the lat side either. In 2011, we propose to start building a new access route to Norway's largest port in Oslo. And in the revised national budget, the government signaled that there will be money to rebuild the Bodø station just to facilitate transhipment between the two most environmentally friendly modes of transport – rail and sea. And Bodø has a port where just reloading between track and sea is highly topical. I agree with the interpellant that we need to be even better at planning overall between road, track, aircraft and port, such as. The plans of the Committee were presented when we visited Trøndelag, where we plan to locate a new port in Stjørdal. If we're going to succeed in getting more goods on the fridge, we have to realize that the money largely determines the choices that are being made. Therefore, the red-green majority has ensured that the most competitive prices for freight by train are now available. When we are going to make maritime transport more competitive than cars, we have two main options in this room: we can increase the taxes on truck transport, and we can reduce the taxes on maritime transport. So far we have concluded with the last and therefore implemented reductions in the user payment for the use of ports, which the Council of State had in mind. I also think we need to be willing to discuss the charges on the truck, and a topic on the right is also addressed in a Document 8 proposal that is now being dealt with in the Stortinget. A large increase in truck transport is an important reason why the wear on our roads is much greater than the road service had in its forecasts. Many countries on the continent have charging systems that are developed at the intersection of technology and policies and that capture more of the actual length of road network in the country. In this way, carriers may also be subject to fair charges, irrespective of their country of origin, such as the representatives of the Right, Halleraker and Sanner, etc., are concerned with the said proposal. I am pleased with the commitment and initiative taken by the representative Hareide. I am also very pleased with the signals given by the Council of State that she is going to start a much closer dialogue and discussion with the actors in this area – not least involving the product owners in a completely different way in order to make them think again about using refrigerated goods. So the signals are good, and with the commitment that's in this room, I think there's good evidence that we're going to get more of the transport over on the keel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1283	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party Knut Arild Hareide addresses this important question of how to facilitate a greater share of freight transport from road to sea. This has been the concern of the Progress Party for a long time, and that is why, at the beginning of 2009, we promoted a proposal for a representative to present a separate big message on the strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure. The background to the proposal was that the strategy and measures for maritime transport are almost completely omitted from the current national transport plan, and it appears that maritime transport is almost down-prioritised in its work on the plan. As I said, I am very pleased that the representative Hareide raised the question now, but I am also a little surprised. The Christian People's Party was, after all, one of the parties that voted against the proposal of the representatives of the Progressive Party on this very point. The proposal was as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own key messages on the strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure as soon as possible.’ To be honest, I don't understand how the Christian People's Party could vote against it. What is needed to move transport by road to maritime transport? We know that 59.7 pst. of all exports and 62,7 pst. of all imports into Norway in 2007 exceeded Swinesund, and since then the figures have hardly declined — rather the opposite. Very much of Norwegian imports and exports are happening today over Svinesund, but once we have one day established a good continuous motorway connection all the way from Oslo to Kristiansand, we in Sørland are ready to contribute a larger part of foreign trade. In the South we have a strong maritime environment with shipping companies, offshore and oil and gas industries. With us it's in the blood, for cities like Arendal and Kristiansand have been built on maritime industries like international trade and seagoing transport from the very beginning. This is a tradition that is alive today, and Arendal port, Eydehavn, is probably Norway's largest rig port, and Kristiansand port is one of the largest ports in the country. Unfortunately, despite its thousand-year maritime tradition, Norway has not kept up with developments, and the infrastructure associated with Norwegian maritime transport is often derived from the past era of shipping. The national Parliament of the country should therefore be assessed at regular intervals in terms of maritime-based transport infrastructure, so that Norway can take an active part in global development. In this way, we can make our own coastal transport more competitive, while at the same time making our most central ports more economically attractive to the Norwegian industry. The State should pay more for infrastructure in Norway, and this applies to both land transport, air transport and maritime transport. The Progress Party wants to take maritime transport out of its national transport plan, so that we can get a broad and important discussion about the issue of Hareide here. And the Council of State should perhaps also have thanked the Progress Party last year, when we addressed this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1301	First, thanks to the interpellant for the opportunity to take this important environmental debate on more freight transport by sea, rather than further increased transport on the country’s very congested, narrow and poor roads. ‘Marriage should be given good conditions for getting more goods off the road on board ships’. It is stated in the Right Transport Plan ‘Rasers forward — safe home’. With this in mind, the right has a clear and concrete desire to facilitate more goods from road to ship and more attractive ports also for passenger services. The fast route transports both goods and people. It is therefore critical that the department of the coastal route offer has not imposed any requirements on the cooling and freezing capacity on board ships in the tendering process. Furthermore, the requirement for the quantity of goods is not sufficient to meet today’s needs and does not point towards getting more goods from road to sea. Norway is a long-distance country, with most of it surrounded by sea and sea. This means that we depend on good transport years both at sea and at land. It is therefore necessary to plan and organise for a much simpler mode of transport to and from ferries and ships than it is today, for both humans and goods. We have some challenges ahead of us. But one could, for example, start by looking at whether the high level of charges in Norwegian ports and waters makes it more difficult to compete against specific road transport. I record that the Council of State in its statement indicated that there are things going on here. For the right, it is important that the charges are at a level that is not deterrent to business, where maritime transport could be a real alternative to car, train or aircraft. In the Right Transport Plan, it is clear that we want to reduce Norwegian port and water charges if estimates show that reductions can lead to marked shifts in freight from road to sea. A transport rate, as the interpellant suggests, also sees the Right as an important step in getting a more unified planning. Transport and good logistics are important for economic development in the country in general. But it is particularly important in coastal districts and towards the major ports along the coast. For example, Møre and Romsdal, one of the largest exporting countries in the country, have only one real transport year out of and into the region, the E136 Ålesund-Dombås export route. We also don't have railway as an alternative when the road closes in the Rome valley of race. Therefore, strengthening maritime transport of both goods and people along the coast will have a major impact on the region, which has a fantastic export-oriented business. We often talk a lot about how important it is with good framework conditions and safe jobs, but we are very vulnerable to transport years and logistics. The volcanic eruption on Iceland paralyzed the air traffic along the entire west coast about while E136 was shut down by the snow. This created major problems for business, which depend entirely on the export route to transport their products to the markets. If the blast had come at the same time as the large snowfall in the valley of Rome, it would have hit the industry and the region extra hard. This underlines how vulnerable we are without alternative modes of transport. What happened helped greatly to strengthen my belief that increased transport by sea would be a good alternative to road and aircraft, as long as we don't have rail either. The E39 ferry-free route on the western shore must therefore be put in place as soon as possible in relation to modern ports which can contribute to increased freight and passenger transport by sea. At the same time, the City Ship Tunnel must be realized. Today, a fast boat goes from Stavanger to Haugesund and Bergen, to Sogn and Nordfjord. From Nordfjord and up to Kristiansund this possibility of transport is lacking due to the dangerous sea area around the Stadhavet, while one from Kristiansund can take the fast boat on to Trondheim. It is incomprehensible that the government is agreeing to put into place City Ship Tunnel, which is the key to ensuring that we have a coherent safe transport service across the coast. This will contribute to shorter, safer and more environmentally friendly shipping in a highly vulnerable area. It is almost utopian to think more goods transport from road to sea before the City Tunnel is in place, as shipping often has to wait a long time to pass the dangerous State Sea. The fact that the City Ship Tunnel is once again exposed by the government of Stoltenberg is therefore a scandal of the entire coast and hampers the effectiveness of Norwegian maritime transport in general. It would have been nice if the council could say something about when the City Ship Tunnel can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1324	When it comes to the last post linking up to the City Tunnel, I am very happy that one spends time thinking about the expensive solution, and whether it is necessary to choose such a solution – at least it is SV’s starting point. The interpellant takes up a theme that many people are busy about, and that sounds like everyone's around. I don't think that's true. But I think the three grips that Hareide's in on are quite right to focus on. Let me start with this tie up against ports, in relation to Risavika port, which was named, where one goes with private and local authorities and builds out a port along the sea, to say that, to 11⁄2 billion. kr, and then has an unconsidered infrastructure out there. The interpellant mentioned that maybe one should also reconsider the freight terminal location. It was tried by a party in the 1990s when I joined the city council in Stavanger, but then the parties on the North-Jear were afraid that if they left the plan they would not have a new plan. That's why it was Ganddal – and now it's on Ganddal. The problem now is that then the pressure on the four-field road comes out to Risavika. But then SV's answer to it is that then one has to solve it by building the railway out there, and then have reloading inside Ganddal. So it can still be done in an environmentally friendly way. There is one of my points here, when the representative from the Right and the representative from the Advance Party and others now say that we need to build more roads, and then we like to get more maritime transport. But that has to be very simplified. If one takes away all the tolls, the cheaper it will be to run on the roads, the more traffic will be on the roads. If one thinks that one should have more transport over the sea, one must make it cheaper to travel by sea. That's what the government is doing -- that's what the Council of State is doing now. It's doing well to get rid of the tax regime at sea, just to move the transport there. But if we do the opposite, as the Progress Party will – making it cheaper to run on the road – move the more transport over on the road. Then there is another traffic accident, and then there is more pollution. It's that simple with the idea that the Progress Party stands for. It's strange that one doesn't realize this when one argues that one should have more transport across the sea, and has suggestions on this, and the government voted down, and the Christian People's Party voted it down. It doesn't matter when you try to get rid of tolls and things that make it cheaper to run on the road. That is why it is important that an actual priority be given. Since my SV – this is not the government’s view – that building E39 and building all these tunnels in the West will increase the same problem as one says one is against. This will actually make it easier for freight to travel on the roads, and it will remove ferries and possible breaks for truck drivers, making them more tired and more dangerous to carry on the roads. I lack a priority from the right-wing party in this debate. They just say yes to everything – yes to more than that, yes to more underwater tunnels, and then a few to more maritime transport. I mean, to be honest, the right-wing party must also be able to give priority and not just say yes to absolutely everything, when they know that it means that what they say about maritime transport will not vote. People are well aware that we in SV believe that those who are truly discriminated against in the debate on priority are, above all, the railways. It is that ports have income from the fees, airports have income from the liquor store and other charges, motorways and roads have tolls. The railway has no additional revenue, they only have the state budget. It seems SV is a weakness compared to moving transport from road to path. But, as I said, we also need to focus more on what the Council of State was about to do, to take tax measures when it comes to port and fairway policy. So I'm in the middle of it. So to the interpellant – in relation to a transport budget: now they are going to red-green away and look at the Swedish model and discuss it. SV has said that we want ports and fairways under the Ministry of Transport, but that is something we should discuss in the future, of course with the Council of State as well. We're reducing the fees, and the NTP plan keeps us going. So this isn't so crazy, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1343	Thank you, representative!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1347	This is an important interpellation, and I think everyone in this room agrees that too much goods are carried on trailers, especially on narrow roads. The Christian People's Party will contribute to better facilitating the transport of goods by improving the framework conditions for shipping vessels. As the representative Hareide mentioned, a medium-sized container boat can carry as much as 500 trucks on the road. It shows some of the potential for maritime transport both in relation to climate solutions and in relation to safe and secure transport of goods. Equal conditions of competition between maritime transport and road transport are very important if we are to transfer more goods from road to sea. The reduced fees and charges for maritime transport are thus a step in the right direction, and I am pleased with the signals given by the Council of State in its contribution. A report from Møreforskning shows that of each transport crown there is a car and track 70 pst. for own operation, while the boat has only 35 pst. It goes without saying that this is a major disadvantage for maritime transport. Seaway along the coast has at all times been our highway no. 1st@item: inlistbox There are no queues here, there are low accident risks, and the environmental challenges are affordable. However, in order for it to serve its purpose effectively, it must be invested in ports and other infrastructure. In concrete terms, the port structure needs to be improved in order to transfer a greater proportion of domestic freight to ships. Ports constitute an infrastructure enjoyed by all carriers and travellers, but it is shipping that takes the bulk of the bill in the form of port charges. This means that in many respects ship transport is not competitive with truck transport, despite its environmental benefits. Therefore, the fees have to be allocated with justice. In order for shipping to take a greater share of domestic freight transport, it is necessary to provide for better and more comprehensive door-to-door transport chains. Changes in port structure require good planning and long-term investment is required. Therefore, in order to achieve the objective of more transport on ships, pilot projects should be launched in cooperation with the industry with reasonable access ports, which are central to important population concentrations. It is a goal of the Christian People's Party to get a tax regime that stimulates more environmentally friendly transport of goods. The conditions of competition between the various modes of transport may help us to move more of the freight flow from land to sea. Finally, it is also a goal of safe transport. That's why it's important to get in place City Ship Tunnel. The representative of Langeland needs to look at the accident statistics in this area. He has to look at how many times traffic is stopped due to storms, and how the tunnel will help to create security for both fishermen and those who are at home. There will be another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1366	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the necessary debate he has raised. Maritime freight transport is also a climate-friendly alternative to road transport. It is therefore a goal to get more transport of goods to go by sea instead of on the road. Shipping has an advantage compared to other modes of transport by allowing ships to transport large quantities of goods with high energy efficiency and low emissions. In addition, the infrastructure of maritime transport provides for limited natural interference. Freight transport by electrically driven trains, which we have most of here to land, has no emissions. However, this represents only 7 pst. of domestic freight works. The most interesting thing about environmental policy is therefore the relationship between road and sea. Of the road transport, the heaviest cars in particular compete with ships. Just the heaviest cars are also most to the detriment of the environment and create the most insecurity for other road users. First of all, the most striking thing: on large parts of the road network, heavy cars create capacity problems. This is probably most true in and around cities and agglomerations, but also elsewhere, by e.g. make it difficult to pass by and thereby impede capacity and speed standards. While there is no doubt the need for further upgrading of our road network, also for the sake of business needs, the dampening of the growth of heavy traffic on the roads will undoubtedly be a good social economy. Secondly, I would like to point out the noise problems. Road transport by lorry is more disruptive than maritime transport. Roads go significantly where people live, while ships generally only cause disturbance at port calls. It is estimated that approx. 300000 Norwegians are heavily affected and plagued by road traffic noise. This is a health and environmental problem that needs to be taken very seriously in the coming years. In the case of air pollution, both ships and trucks are largely fueled by fossil fuels. However, for the local air pollution, like noise, there are obvious advantages to maritime transport by the fact that most of this takes place a bit from the settlement. In addition, this is also good for greenhouse gas emissions. The country has some main groups of instruments at its disposal in transport policy such as: indirect management of economic instruments such as: charges and charges, where individual transport users can adapt, appropriations for infrastructure, both operation, maintenance and initial investment, and not least the organisation of public administration in the transport sector. We must therefore ensure that the framework conditions are fair and environmentally sound and not in favour of maritime transport. This applies to both land and sea charging and infrastructure policy. We must also ensure that ports are well connected to the national transport network and that ports and maritime transport become a good transport policy. The government has steadily increased State port charges, while, for example, in Oslo has managed to keep local charges at the same level or actually reduce prices somewhat. Fewer ships shall be required to be released, but the unloading shall be more expensive for the unincorporated ships. The coastal works' proposal for a new regulation on discharge in Norwegian waters implies that nearly 40 pst. of the bulk operations will fall away in Tromsø and Finnmark. The Chairman of the Board of Oslo Port KF, Bernt Stilluf Karlsen, believes this is a hit ship on its way to Oslo, while ships on the north escape. The state's unloading station at Fäder is the state's largest toll station, one that demands more and more money and delivers products that do not keep a goal, he says in an article in Today's Business Saturday, July 31. This particularly affects container traffic to and from Oslo, which is contrary to the government's objective of getting more traffic across on ships. It is possible for the public to do more, but it requires greater grip than the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1385	When I hear the council's speech, I hear great party speeches, but party speakers don't mean that there will be more transportation of goods at sea. And when I heard about the interpellant Hareide, he told me he had gone to Sunday school. Yes, there are enough of the boats that have grown in size, but I have to agree with the representative that it is still the case that the ships are still small, and the sea is still large. I think what you really have to deal with if you mean anything by this is the level of the fee. The level of the charge and the level of the charge — everyone involved in the transport of goods by sea is concerned. And I hope, now that we have had hearings in the Transport Committee, that the government parties will not continue with the government arrogance, but actually listen to the recordings that have come from the hearing bodies in the Transport Committee. Everyone is concerned about the same thing: fees and reductions in fees. I think it's experienced by a lot of people who are quite greedy when the state takes in over 60-70 pst. of the charges on maritime transport. The little rest of the fees are the ports that get the best out of it. It must build infrastructure on the ports for. I also think that the representative Hareide had many important input into his speech and many good actions. Unfortunately, I experience that when the concrete proposals are discussed here in the Stortinget, such as. in the last growing-up period, the Christian People's Party is rarely in favour of them, to which the representative Vosskensen referred. When you just wanted to get a real discussion around this and get a message, the Christian People's Party voted against. However, it is important, as the representative Hareide also said, that fees need to be reviewed and reduced in order to make maritime transport more attractive. And that's a paradox – as the Shipping Ship Association writes: ‘Tax neutrality is a keyword if we are to achieve the objective of goods from road to sea. Analysis of the charging structure of Møreforsking Molde shows that, for maritime transport, only half of the costs related to transport itself are incurred, while the rest are costs related to public and cargo handling. [[2009]] They show, through a given example, that of each transport crown, 70 % is left for own use — while the boat has only 35 %.’ At least it does not help to make maritime transport more attractive. Some of the things that the government has done are good, but it's too little if you really think you should move goods from road to maritime transport. I think it's good, it's important to have a good interaction between the modes of transport. Then I have to say that I am a bit over 31 core networks – when we know how small the allocations to the national transport plan are actually when you start to distribute – will not make the ports actually have less opportunity to be competitive. They boast of South Harbours in Oslo, boasted of Kristiansand and Tromsø, but there are still 28 core ports that – many of them – have great challenges in terms of infrastructure to and from the port. So I believe, despite the government's boast of so-called historical commitment, that many core networks will still have major challenges on the infrastructure side, even when this national transport planning period is over – unless it is spent on more money. So I just have to say, when I listen to the representative Bjørnflaten, that it's nice to have a part of the positive things you're busy with, but I also hear a representative who instead of helping with positive and good actions, sees only the possibility of new taxes and ringing coins in the form of further taxation of the already heavily taxed industry. So to the representative of Langeland: if he really thinks that in terms of Risavika port you should first place goods on the railway, then drive to Ganddal, and then place the cargo on trucks to drive it on, I think that Risavika port won't be a competitor considering that maritime transport is going to use the port. Then I think you'll choose places where you don't get higher costs than you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1409	The interpellant has explained many of the arguments for getting more goods across from road to sea. These arguments are shared by a large political majority. If we go back a long way, we see that much of the goods transported in Norway were transported by sea – naturally. Then we had a period of transportation on the railway. Now for quite many years we have had a strong increase in freight on trucks. In 1960, boat transport amounted to almost 70 pst., truck 18 pst. and mark 13 pst. In 2007 the boat transport was reduced to 40 pst. – i.e. almost halved – while rail transport was reduced to 7 pst. Truck transport, on the other hand, had increased to almost 50 pst. Now there are many reasons why we have got this development, first of all that goods are transported from where they are created, or have their origins, and to the recipient. Today we have a much larger demand for fast delivery – it must be as short as possible. It was the councils inside. And I guess we all know the concept that no one has it as busy as a dead salmon. But there are other groups of goods that are not so busy. The interpellant addressed the adverse impact on the environment and emissions. For this reason, the national transport plan also sets out a target for more goods to be moved from road to sea. Norway is basically in a special position in this case, because we have seas all along our long-range country, far from all countries have. But maritime transport is subject to heavy charges. Today you can almost use the expression a myriad of fees. There are ten different state charges for framework conditions, there are four different environmental taxes, and there are six different port charges and miscellaneous fees in ports. For maritime transport, this constitutes 36 pst. of the total costs, while for road it constitutes 11 pst. and for track 0,5 pst. To cover the transport and profit for the sea, it is then 40 pst. again, versus 74 pst. on the way and 76 pst. on track – and there is a significant difference. In meeting with the port organisations, they express great dissatisfaction with this. The charges result in fewer calls and lower profits in ports. Ports are located in lucrative properties and are tempted to sell the properties for housing or other purposes, for the probable management of the reclaimed capital would yield more dividends than operating the ports, as it is today. The same applies to the shipping associations. Due to the high charges, it is not becoming competitive and is therefore not interested in investing in new fleets. That's why we also have – a lot – old fleet that goes along the coast today. It's an unfortunate development. The whole situation leads to a development that we're not worthy of, especially in terms of the environment. As the interpellant, Hareide, said, 750 trucks make up one to two boats. Just think of the load on the road network that this range of trucks leads to, not to talk about road safety and the accident load. Buying on the roads also costs money. When I drove to the airport on Tuesday morning, it was dark, it was raining, it was narrow road, and I met a number of car trains – with a huge light on the roof. It was not at all pleasant, but it went well. It doesn't work all the time. This can be done by the government by reducing the level of fees and by red tape. I'm glad the Council of State has said that you're on that road, but it's a long way to go – and it's a little bit urgent. Another thing that's important is the development of these logistics ports. As the representative of Bjørnflaten mentioned, we were presented with a very interesting project in Stjørdal when we were on an inspection. I hope the Council of State has the opportunity to get involved in it, so we don't get too much sector thinking and we don't get it there either. Otherwise, I would like to comment that the representative Bjørnflaten mentions that the Right promotes a proposal for an increase in the fees. That proposal, in fact, is that we should have equal charging for foreign and Norwegian vehicles, which we are far from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1437	I have listened to many of the good comments on this matter. The interpellant draws up a very important debate. The problem is that over the few years I've been here on Stortinget – 13 so far – these celebrations and goals have come together. Everyone has stated objectives that it is important that we get more transport from road to sea, and from land to sea in general. Time and again there have been many good and fine visions. It is important that we keep this debate warm, and I will try to get into some points. Otherwise: I have relatively many years of experience from port managers etc. and have worked a lot on these questions before I got to Stortinget, but also afterwards. Some of the things that have been discussed by others, including: The representative of Hoksrud is precisely the problem of the level of taxation of maritime transport. This is one of the things we have to do something about if we're going to get to our goals of turning a larger part of the transport from the land – especially from car traffic – and across the sea. We also see that all the different charges, and the way they are charged, are a problem. It's actually a problem to keep track of these things – fees that are going on in the port you come from, the one you're going to, and then you have the government fees and the fees that come there. In addition, we have gained more competition from foreign vessels, along the Norwegian coast, where we have a different problem issue, namely the NOx fee, which we have here in the country for our ships. Unfortunately, it has been found that when some of the foreign ships have given the bluff to pay these fees, they have not been properly followed up afterwards with a view to obtaining the NOx tax. The foreign vessels may also be members of the Norwegian NOx fund, but unfortunately it turns out that this is not done in a good enough way. We also have many small and family-owned shipping vessels along the coast, with very low equity. In fact, these vessels have major difficulties in renewing themselves in the market that is, and here also comes what has to do with access to capital. Furthermore, it is quite clear that when we are planning new ports and new port structures, the most important thing to do is to get on the road and ask for advice on how to do so, at least be business and the one who is actually going to have their goods transported. We can decide as much as we want, and as many ports as we want, but if the ports are not where business needs it, they will never benefit from that port anyway. Then there are some port users who have major problems using discretion, because it is related to market demand – when the market is going to have a product. Let's take a very large part of the trailer transport that goes on the roads, namely the thermotransport. Yeah, that's just the salmon. Here it is as simple as that if you are not on the market in Paris at five o'clock in the morning on Wednesday, and you have the salmon standing there in fresh condition, then yes, then you haven't sold it. And then you have a problem, because then you can't sell that salmon either. So that's exactly why the velocity is very important. As regards infrastructure in the ports themselves, it is important that these ports have a financial basis for further development. We are now seeing more and more container ships along the ports. In Ålesund we have been visited by increasingly large container boats, yes, the last that has come there are four crane container boats – to illustrate the size of these ships. Then you have to have real infrastructure. But perhaps the most important thing to make these ports work is transport to the ports from the country side, to get some of this goods up to some ports that are competitive with their location, because perhaps the most expensive thing about getting things over from land to sea is just reloading. The most expensive thing for a boat, for a ship that's in traffic, is the time you're actually ashore. It is then important that that infrastructure is in place, and not least that the waterway into these ports is also of such a nature that they are competitive. And another thing: it's quite obvious when you're talking about road-to-sea transport, that it was easier in the old days when you had the big central warehouses that picked things up. Today, in fact, the stocks of many businesses are constantly on their way to businesses. It often happens that maritime transport – if they cannot compete on infrastructure and speed – loses in competition. But the fees and charges are the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1465	I do not believe the representative Hoksrud could have got what the representative Bjørnflaten said. She said – as I see it, in any case – that these reductions in taxes were coming, and she referred to the warning reductions that would come later. Coastal charges have been reduced from 34 to 30 pst. So that's going to be a total decrease of 27 million. kr. The government also has notice that one in the long run is considering reducing other charge elements. So the user payments go down. A common transport policy is important. We therefore also look with interest at proposals by the Right that go on with foreign vehicles – trucks coming into the country and perhaps getting away with something cheap on the charging page. We are very interested in how we can rectify the imbalances there, which will also help to facilitate maritime transport. I believe that the policy of the Progress Party in this sector will lead to more freedom of movement in road construction and in the use of long-distance transport, and that maritime transport will not be strengthened at all if it is the policy to be pursued. Otherwise I have to mention that I think that all those who have said something about the ferry-free coastal route have been involved in something very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1474	I very much agree with the previous speaker in his closing comment. I am also pleased that the representative from the Labour Party, who was now up, has understood and read the draft representative that we have tabled from the Right. It is true that non-resident carriers have completely different conditions on Norwegian roads than Norwegian ones have, and it has created an unfortunate distortion of competition that we have initiated to clean up. It is also the case that as we receive more and more stop-free toll stations, often with high transit costs, this leads to a large loss of revenue to be included in and financed by roads, which is further – of course – distorting competition with Norwegian vehicles and carriers paying their taxes and tolls. It is also the case that we get to a registration system for these non-resident carriers, we also have much greater opportunities to persecute them on Norwegian roads when they drive with non-Norwegian tyres, without chain etc. We believe that here we have promoted a comprehensive and good proposal that will improve the competitive situation of Norwegian vehicles and are pleased – if I should perceive the last representative of the Labour Party as such – that the Workers' Party considers that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1481	I thought it was a good debate, and he didn't get any worse because Øyvind Halleraker also escaped. I didn't think it was at least exciting to have the debate on one transport network. So I would say very clearly that how the government organizes its work is entirely the responsibility of the government. But I think it is exciting to think about how we can assess it in relation to the etats and stronger coordination. The Christian People's Party has not concluded here, but we would like to make a statement about it. Similarly, we know that Sweden has now concluded and started to operate, and Finland is about to conclude. I therefore welcome the signal from the representative of Langeland and the letter from the Minister for Transport, which gives certain openings. On the other hand, I disagree with the representative of Langeland when it comes to the City Tunnel. I am pleased that representatives Røbekk Nørve and Andersen Eide have just seen the possibilities in the Stad tunnel, which also for maritime transport will be very important. In this debate, it's also fun to be together with the Progress Party to reduce user payments, because it's not like we're always together with the Progress Party to reduce user payments in all areas. I also share an outrageous view of the Progress Party. At the same time, I feel that the Advance Party wants to have greater trust in this area than any other party, and I do not agree with that. For it is that the Progress Party does not have a single penny more than that of the other representatives here. That's why the Progress Party is actually getting its trust in this area – I think – less than the other parties. Finally, I would like to say that we are eagerly waiting for a climate cure that comes as a big message from the government in 2011. In this area – and there has not been so much in the debate – we have great expectations from the Christian People's Party, because some of the investments that will be most profitable will be, among other things. maritime transport in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I thought it was very good and I would like to give tribute to the Council of State for having an active dialogue with the actors. I hope that the dialogue with the actors can just lead to concrete results when the government comes up with a big message on the Climate Action in spring 2011, because I believe that the investments in maritime transport can be some of the most profitable. So we're talking about money here, but if we're going to get the most back for the money, we're going to have to bet within this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1494	Let me first of all thank you for a very good debate. I think having to discuss important things in this room gives me a good day – I have had that today. I would also like to start by saying that I totally disagree with the representative of Vosschen and the Progress Party, who will take maritime transport out of the national transport plan. There is absolutely the wrong step to take. I see the representative Nesvik nodding, for his posts hinted at the opposite. But I note that there is another area where there is at least a difference between the Right and the Advance Party. The right is responsible for bringing together all transport operations in one transport mode. The question then arises of how the state can best organise itself to solve that task, an important and demanding debate, and there are many perspectives and considerations that need to be weighed up. There will always be interfaces between the responsibilities of the different departments. The perspective we must have in this debate, at least, is that Norway is a significant port, and we see that in recent years there has been a strengthened need for comprehensive maritime management. For example, a comprehensive maritime and coastal management is very important, and a north-eastern perspective/arctic perspective. Maritime safety is a key instrument that can be mentioned, and the framework conditions for maritime transport and its regulation. It is an important debate that we must definitely take. Then there has been a lot of focus on fees. I explained in my article what we have done, and the government continues to work to reduce the user payment for maritime transport. But it's important to distinguish between what's government taxes and what's municipal. The costs of the coastal works shall cover the infrastructure charges of the State, while the municipal charges shall cover the costs of the municipalities. Lots represent the majority of government expenditure. We are committed to reducing maritime transport charges. That's why we're doing it, and we'll keep doing it. As far as the City Tunnel is concerned, we are on track in relation to what we have said in the National Transport Plan. The draft review will be completed by the end of the year. Then we have the ordinary quality assurance procedures in that area. There we will not least discover the importance of this for transport. Then there have been several people in the NOx fee and the NOx fund. What is at least certain is that the NOx fund has been very positively received by the business community. It is an action for which industry is holding back and arguing hard and strongly. I'm very pleased with that, too. Then there is a reference to some challenges related to it, which I will take with me to the Minister of Finance, who is the right recipient of them. I thank you again for the debate. It has been very good, and I hope we shall continue that kind of debate in an important area of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1520	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1526	We're going to voting. In Case No: 1–4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1536	The President pointed out that there was an error in the legislative decision from the first reading. Paragraph 3, paragraph 1, states: «Law 26 June 1992 nr. 62’ – it shall be No Eighty-six. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. In Case No. 6 there is also no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-21.ana.ud2350e1692	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
