ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e78	An application for sick leave is submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative of Gina Knutson Barstad from 9 June to 18 June. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Einar Horvei, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge from 9 June to 11 June, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates of the county of Hordaland are convened to meet during the period of leave: Aud Karin Oen from 9 June to 11 June, and Einar Horvei from 14 June to 18 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e107	Aud Karin Oen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e112	On behalf of Mr Ulf Leirstein and myself, I would like to make a proposal on fiscal equal treatment of trade union quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e117	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e133	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e142	With this report, the National Audit Office is now directly involved in one of the most topical and political debates. By this week at the latest, this case and this matter marked what has happened in this room. There are three main issues raised by the Riksrevision: the objectives set by the Storting, the role of the Ministry of the Environment as the Ministry of the Interior and the adequacy of the use of instruments. Of course, it is the case that an overall increase, with more or less support from the Progress Party, has set ambitious targets for Norway in climate policy. In a short time, we are going to overrun the Kyoto agreement by 10 p.m., and in the longer term, Norway is going to be climate-neutral, in 2030. These are ambitious goals, and I want to add that ambitious goals in general are important for success. I would also like to point out that hardly any other objective this room has set in recent years has been subject to corresponding political control and attention. There are good reasons for that, because this is an important matter, and it is high on the agenda. Much of it is about buying allowances, establishing and verifying good systems, the functioning of the market — both regional and international — and good national governance towards ambitious national targets at home. Furthermore, of course, technology and technology development play a very important role. In this way, this report is important and useful reading, but I also want to add that in the light of the fact that the climate agreement is only well two years old, that it contains mechanisms for political control and regular political debate and feedback also in this Chamber every five years, and the great focus of this area, I would point out for myself that now, from the Riksrevision side, it is probably moving all the way across the border between control and policy. Of course, the National Audit Office will always be free to present what it wants, whenever it wants. But at my discretion, much of what is being addressed here is close to the ongoing and dynamic political process that is in this matter. On the other hand, it is clear that this is useful and good background material for us in the further work, not least as regards the national climate objectives and the processes to go into the Stortinget and politically as early as next year. Just to sum up: it is good that the Kyoto commitments seem to be well within reach. This hall should notice that it seems primarily to be a matter of money, which is also the responsibility of this hall. It's worth noting that there are bigger challenges ahead. It's nothing new. It's also an important part of the political and social dynamics of all things, that you have to have something to reach out for, that you have to be ambitious. I think it is worth noting the crucial importance attached to technology and technology development here as well. That's the crucial question, and without us being optimistic on behalf of new technology, new solutions and new ways of doing things, this is going to be painful and difficult. You could say a lot about Mongstad, but Mongstad is at least a good example of a very ambitious bet by the government, where big funds are invested, and where very ambitious targets are set. I would like to end by saying that, with regard to the role of the Ministry of the Environment as a cross-sectoral department, we have chosen to rely on the Basic Law provision that the government itself organises its work. I believe that is both relevant and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e159	Climate change is the biggest threat facing the world today. It can be said that climate change is no longer a defined environmental issue, but it is a challenge for sectors and for society as a whole. We know that poor environments, regions and countries are the hardest hit, and that is where people are also the worst equipped to meet them. Today, there are more refugees from climate change than from wars and armed conflicts. This I say initially because it is important to establish it. There is reason to stress what Margot Wallström said before the Copenhagen Summit: ‘There is no Plan B, because there is no Planet B.’ In the Workers' Party's programme for this ageing period, it states, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We are moving ahead with over-fulfilling our part of the Kyoto Agreement, taking responsibility for cutting equivalent 30 per cent of our emissions by 2020, and 100 per cent by 2030, so that we are carbon-neutral.’ In particular, it is the emissions targets by 2020, an important part of the climate agreement, which the National Audit Office has been most concerned with in its study of the achievement of the objectives of climate policy. Both the Ministry of the Environment and a unanimous committee consider that a review of climate policy is both relevant and important, but perhaps the timing of this management audit may seem somewhat early. In the context of the climate agreement, the size decided to be added to control stations and further development of national instruments every five years. An overall committee believes that this will contribute to the appropriate control of the work to be carried out in order to meet the emission targets set by the Storting. However, the review of the Riksrevision is an important contribution that can impose new instruments. That's how it has to be understood. But it is primarily the Stortinget that has a self-responsive responsibility to ensure that its own objectives in climate policy are achieved. Because the report is already coming, the Riksrevision's assessments will be based on an uncertain basis, which the Riksrevision itself understands. In the climate agreement, we have committed ourselves to reducing Norwegian emissions by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes. The report on Climate Change from the Climate and Pollution Directorate shows that this can be expensive and difficult. Climate change is the greatest monitoring ever of possible measures, prices and impacts, and provides a solid basis for the follow-up to the climate agreement – a plan for the 15-17 million. tonnes can be achieved. We are otherwise very aware that we will not achieve our objectives with the means we have had, and therefore climate change. Otherwise, we know that there are measures that have worked. For example, the 2010 forecast would: has been worth 8 million. tonnes higher without action taken after 1990. There should be mention of CO2 tax – in particular in relation to the oil sector, voluntary agreements with the process industry and accession to the EU's quota system with Europe's most stringent allocation. Norway is an active player in order to ensure the closure of deforestation measures in developing countries. Here's the big challenge. It is necessary to establish financial instruments and local robust organisations to implement the deforestation measures that allow transfers of funds. The National Audit Office states in its report that there is a risk related to the coordination of multilateral work at country level, and in particular the work of the UN organisations involved. That's why Brazil was elected, because they have a local organization that works. The means of preserving the rainforest shall also contribute to the promotion of sustainable development, poverty reduction and are an important part of our contribution to the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals. The funds are then also allocated to the aid budget. At the Oslo Climate and Forest Conference on 27 May this year, representatives of 55 countries agreed on an agreement. 25 B.C.E. kr shall be set aside for the period 2010-2012. The Storting’s treatment of the climate notification made it clear that the cross-sectoral instruments are essential to reduce national emissions in line with national objectives. I mention this because the National Audit Office emphasises that a cross-sectoral policy does not detract from the responsibility of the Ministry of the Sector to contribute to the achievement of the climate objectives. Finally, it may be a good thing to enjoy, namely that the 2009 emissions figures, according to the Statistical Central Bureau, show a reduction of 5.4 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e200	The Riksrevision report states that greenhouse gas emissions have increased by more than 8 pst. after 1990, and is expected to continue to increase by 2020. The national audit also notes that, despite the efforts of several measures to reduce emissions growth, this trend has not been reversed. Nevertheless, the National Audit Office believes that despite the national increase in emissions, Norway is likely to meet the Kyoto commitments from 2008 to 2012, but we are highly dependent on the purchase of allowances to achieve the climate policy objectives we have set. The Progress Party believes that a thorough and critical approach to the value of the many climate action discussed and promoted by the government is necessary. Similarly, a critical approach to the value of sectoral plans versus technology or sector-neutral market-based schemes should be adopted. In the light of the Climate Change Course, the emissions target of the largest figure appears to be work that is more costly and more difficult to achieve than the majority of GDP. The challenges have not been reduced as a result of the postponements of the projects at Kårstø and Mongstad. National climate action needs to be assessed in the light of global utility rather than a narrow approach to national gross CO2 emissions. In view of this, some revisions of the cost-benefit assessments of the climate plans of selected municipalities should be carried out at the invitation of the government. Furthermore, it is appropriate to ensure that the government’s planned climate notification is quality assured in terms of realism and dietary value for various key projects. The Progress Party is critical to the government’s approach to CO2 quota trading, which claims to have a strict climate quota law to cut CO2 emissions, but where the results are that the volume of allowances in circulation is maintained, while Norwegian industry has to buy allowances as other country’s industries are allocated free of charge. We must be clear that the total emissions in the EU are determined by total CO2 allowances in circulation, not by the cost to industry. We have registered the National Audit Office’s remark on the uncertainty about the usefulness of several of the projects under the CDM and believe that the government needs to do more thorough preparatory work before concluding agreements with third parties on such projects. We primarily want Norway to use the green development mechanism to promote renewable energy and environmental technologies abroad along with Norwegian business. In addition, we are critical of a policy approach where the amounts of appropriations are considered to be a more important measure of success than the results actually achieved. In this context, we refer to the major allocations of CO2 treatment, where the Stortinget has not had a case of overall approach to treatment, as well as the principle of different treatment that exists between the gas power plants in Mongstad, Kårstø and possibly other gas power plants. We also recall the government's submitted increase in costs and postponement of deadlines for the CO2 clean-up project in Mongstad, assuming that a decision on full scale CO2 clean-up in Mongstad must be based on a review of available technology and a cost assessment set up against alternative projects to improve energy supply and cut CO2 emissions. It is therefore very important that the Storting carry out a review of both the achievement of the target and the use of the instrument in addressing the climate notification as planned in autumn 2011. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a small typographical error in the setting on page 22 of my own notes, where it says ‘extreme foreign quota purchases’. Of course, it should be ‘extensive quota purchases from developing countries’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e243	Then we have noted that correction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e246	I refer you to the case rapporteur, Mr Moes, and that the setting is largely unanimous. Let me highlight a few points that are not subject to this unanimity, first of all the point that Borten Moe had of view that the Riksrevision here enters a political area that they do not have the right to revise. I totally disagree with that. Nor is it based on the position of the Committee, whether from a minority or a majority – a unanimous committee much less. The majority may feel that one should have a control point every five years, but the National Audit Office is free to carry out administrative audits at any time. That independence is the whole of the National Audit Office's right of existence. There would have been something else about the Riksrevision itself had opinions about the targets, but they haven't. They relate to the goal of the Storing and discuss how realistic it is to achieve these. For Stortinget there is a feedback that is to be trusted. In a later case today, including about climate issues, the Riksrevision has revealed that Stortinget has received false feedback for several months and years. This case is not of that nature, but here the Riksrevisor points out that it is in one of the major areas for achieving the climate objectives, namely, the purchase of allowances, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about how much the reductions actually are, compared to what is being said in the projects. It is the majority of the Committee, the minority in the United Kingdom, that actually takes this out of the Riksrevision report and points out that in the period from 2008 to 2012, the State has to purchase climate allowances equivalent to 25 to 30 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent for delivery between 2008 and 2012. Then we say that we noticed that the government in Meld. St. 2 for 2009-2010, i.e. revised national budget, says that 1.3 million allowances have so far been delivered to the country’s holding account in the holding registry. The country has agreed for 20.6 million allowances for delivery in the Kyoto period, but there is uncertainty as to whether these projects are realised and can be reported to the account, the National Audit Office notes in this report. That, I think, is a timely warning, taking into account the uncertainty that has been pointed out in that context. Let me say, for the record, that there is a typographical error in the committee's majority comment on page 21, first column, where I now quoted millions instead of billions. And that's pretty clear from the context, because you're comparing millions later, but it might confuse the ignorant reader, if they exist. Then I would also like to point out, without resuming the debate in Stortinget earlier this week on the whole of climate policy, that when the National Audit Office points to uncertainty, they also point out that a number of projects, in addition to the purchase of allowances, to contribute to the reduction of climate emissions, are projects that have been put at risk. There are many reasons for this. Let me not go into the political discussion on electricity certificates, fuel strategy, etc. or in the case of energy-efficient construction. But common to many of these measures is that they have been implemented later than foreseen, later than provided by the government. There are reasons that may be beyond the rule of government, perhaps within the realm of conflict of government. But it does help to highlight the timing of the National Audit Office’s warning, namely that the uncertainty is great, and if the targets are to be achieved within the deadline set, the pace must be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e262	Since the representative Foss mentions the pace, I just have to say that I agree that it is important to have a higher pace of climate policy. Since we also mention green certificates, it was actually SV who entered into an agreement with Bondevik II on green certificates in 2002. Still they're not here. They should have come while Foss was Minister of Finance. This field is very important for SV. Climate policy is also about solidarity. It is not primarily the rich countries, the ones that emit greenhouse gases, that become the framework. It is primarily the poor who are being affected by greenhouse gas pollution. It's Bangladesh and other countries that lose thousands of lives every year because of our greenhouse gas emissions. This is a serious point to make when we talk about this report from the Riksrevision. The case-speaker has done some good for the government party's position. I don't want to be so categorical when it comes to the Riksrevision field, because I think it's important that you have a keen look at climate policy and the achievement of your goals in Norway. It may be a bit unusual that a boaster of his own Minister of Environmental Protection. I want to do it anyway, because I notice that not least globally, our own Environment Minister has a high star when it comes to the efforts that Norway is making through him. Then I would also like to point out that as I sit in two committees, I see that other departments can have difficulty in following in the hour when it comes to this field, bringing down greenhouse gas emissions. We see that some new motorways are being rolled out, which get greenhouse gas emissions. There are some measures in the area that have not been implemented and that we might have seen in earlier works, for example. (a) the amount of interest paid on the part of the person concerned; But all of this is now on the way. It'll come. The left suggests that we have a new climate settlement. There is no SV against it, but if you look at the political image for the time being, you see that the Right Party and the Progress Party are approaching each other. Each center part is a little more uncertain – they are more concerned about criticising the government for everything and nothing. The score is: Right moves towards the Advance Party. If you look at the climate agreement when it comes to reduced car traffic, Right says they don't want to be on a rush-time charge. An action that works, an action that the NHO wants to take, which actually leads to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, says Right-to-Right, despite the fact that the climate agreement is clear when this is the case. Another field is the Lofoten and the West Pole, which have a very significant impact on climate policy, and where the Right and Advance Party do not slow down – with experience from the Gulf of Mexico, where one of the leaders of the BP had a fail-safe mechanism that failed. Nevertheless, Erna and Siv are now running on as if they were two fail-safe batches in the oil and gas field. It seems that it would be very problematic for the Left to get a climate deal with the Right right now, but we are looking forward to a possible play from the three parties that took part in the last climate deal. After eight years of experience from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, from 1997, I would say that under the red-green government, the environment has been much more focused than ever. Of course it's a pleasure. We are also pleased that we have many good measures to take in the field of climate change. Of course, I would personally have wished that we had come further in Mongstad-saka than we have done today. It would have been a huge advantage for Norway, for future technology and for our greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e283	I take seriously the concern of the representative of Langeland for the opposition. But at least I can remind you that there has been a climate agreement between the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. From our side, we could be interested that the government followed up this climate agreement as quickly as possible, instead of postponing advertised messages. Then we can probably discuss the need for new settlements – and then who might be involved in them. For the time being, I also think this national audit report strongly indicates that we should focus so much on how we should achieve the goals we have already set. And you can ask, why are we fulfilling our Kyoto obligations? It is solely because of the purchase of allowances — to a lesser extent as a result of domestic measures. That should encourage us all to think more carefully about the decisions we are going to take, not least later this month. In the revised budget, the government says that the purchase of allowances is rather bad, to put it correctly. We know that if we do not succeed in moving forward in climate policy internationally, we will face both economic, biological and social consequences that we hardly know here and now. That must be the basis. The representative, Ola Borten Moe, the Advocate General, was concerned about whether the Riksrevision went too far in politicising this report. It's also a little echo, I think, of what's the oil and energy department's response to the Riksrevision, and that's in the file. For my part, and for the Christian People's Party, I believe that the Riksrevision is within its mandate. If there is something that is the Riksrevision's task, it is to put positive or negative labels on the initiative that the government has taken recently — for example. the issue related to the Climate Action Programme – but I think it will be a parentheses in this respect. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are particularly concerned about the role of the Ministry of the Environment – I would assume that the Council of State will certainly say something about it – which is driving towards the other departments that have many of the instruments in place to achieve both our national objectives and, therefore, the international objectives we have. I think that's a clear message in this report, that there's a lot to go on here. Langeland boasted of the Minister for the Environment, and let us use it to challenge the Minister for the Environment to – let us say – sharpen the knife further on this point. As I said, the opposition in this matter may have a particular reason to follow closely. We have a broad, cross-political climate settlement behind us. Of course, we are particularly interested in following up this conciliation – not just because it is an important political agreement, but because of the consequences if we do not achieve the goals we have set ourselves. In this context, I believe that the Riksrevision report is a very good contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e302	We in the Left are very pleased that the Riksrevision has carried out this review. This is a very important topic, and there's a huge amount of money we spend. I think it's important that the Riksrevision is aware of these major posts. In terms of both quota purchases and rainforest money, it is important that we pay attention to how we spend our money, because I think there are many questions about how they are used. We agree that this comes very early in relation to the measures taken. The reason for this is that the government is pushing all the measures out in time. The story that then runs in my mind is about the student who went up to his professor and said, "They're talking over the students' heads, professor." Then the professor said, "I'm talking where the heads should have been." And that's a bit like that. It is possible this is premature in relation to the actions of the government, but it is really not premature in relation to where the actions of the government should have been. This is about money, but it's also about will. When SV spends most of its time criticizing the Left because we've actually got things together with the Right, and trying to do the Right less green than what they actually are, I just want to say that we made this climate deal with the Government, it was we who put in all the rainforest money that the government is now hailing for around the world. So we really expect a thank you letter in the post for the summer. Secondly, there are things after things that we got through in the climate agreement, that we – the Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Left – have signed and are broken. It's all about everything from green certificates to the biodiesel business, it's about the whole conversion of the petroleum sector, it's about Mongstad, it's about electric cars, it's about power saving, and it's about a postponement of the entire climate notification. It's also unforeseeable for all the companies that want to bet environmentally friendly, which is one of our main anchors. I really didn't intend to do this, but it was too tempting when Langeland went out like he used to: I want to get a quote from the newspaper on Sunday. I quote from the SV National Board meeting – I would like to – where a representative, Mr. Seierstad, says: ‘Christine cannot say that, the Minister for the Environment cannot say so, and the representatives of the population cannot say so, and we understand that, but we others must say that our main opposition and the main obstacle to environmental policy are the Workers’ Party.’ I could not agree more with anything expressed by the Swedish National Government meeting. Time and again, when it comes to getting the big grips of environmental policy done, it's where the plug is. We in the Left have shown that we get more together with the Right and Christian People's Party than the SV gets together with the Workers' Party. But I think maybe the SV and the Left should stick together, because we have some clear, equal goals in this area that we should have achieved. Then SV should be happy that the Left stands and kicks them on the deck and comes with good ideas. I think you're actually going to have a little bit more ambition to come up with some of the things that we've pointed out, that break the climate agreement. That was not what I thought I would say, but the SV actually raised such a debate. I believe the National Auditorate has done a good job. I know we can't instruct the Riksrevision to do anything. But if I were to express a wish for something, it's a national audit that fits well on this field forward. Because here's a lot of money, which also goes to countries we're going to be careful to have large transfers of money for, without good control. We should make sure that we have good agreements for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e326	Let me start by insuring Trine Skei Grande that the Left and the SV actually stand together. This week, five major environmental issues have been dealt with here in this room. Now I did not agree with how the Left voted, because the Left is not in the Committee. But I'm very surprised if it wasn't in all five that the Left and the Christian People's Party were together with the government parties, against the Right and the Advance Party. For the Right, in alliance with the Progress Party, has now gone towards one environmental issue after another. As I said, I did not agree with how the Left voted, but if the Left voted in favour of cutting the rickshaw, which is the Left-Man, I will be very surprised. The reality is that the Left is united with the government parties in the major environmental issues, but we get a new alliance of the Right and the Advance Party that is towards the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government parties. This is not the topic of today's debate. I share that view that it is at a very early stage of the Riksrevision going in and taking stock of whether we reach the climate targets, and I also share that view that it is very useful that the Riksrevision places a resolute search light on this. As in all other policy issues, it is not the good intentions of the Great Government and the Great Government to measure – they are usually good in this Chamber – but we must measure whether we are actually achieving important goals. It's important that the Riksrevision goes into it. So it's not right, what was said, that the government doesn't follow up the climate agreement. The climate agreement is being followed up in all material respects — largely. Some minor questions can be found to complain about if you really want to add the bad side, but in general, the climate agreement is being implemented point by point. In addition to this, we are taking new initiatives. We come up with new building regulations from 1 June, which will allow oil boilers to be phased out, for example, and we will start a new climate technology fund, which will come into the state budget for the autumn – to mention a few examples. However, it is clear that the big debate is linked to the climate change crisis. Climate change will be the place where we adopt the means to achieve the goal. It is correct as pointed out by the National Audit Office, and as it has been said in this Chamber many times – I said it myself last week – that we have not yet adopted enough instruments to achieve the 20 pst target. home reductions by 2020. The instruments must be put in place through the climate agreement. I would also point out in passing that what Norway is doing internationally is not peripheral. The reductions made by Brazil at their deforestation rate are often equivalent to all Norwegian emissions together. Of course, this is primarily due to actions by the Brazilian authorities, but we have contributed to them, and the Brazilians make it clear. So a calculation example: if our agreement with Indonesia were to succeed, it alone would result in 700 times greater emission reductions than full scale clean-up in Mongstad. There's no argument against full-scale cleaning in Mongstad, for which I'm going to fight hard, and which I think we're going to manage to get, or which we're going to manage to get, but it's just to put into perspective that it's incredibly important what Norway is doing in the world. It's true, as was said, that the opposition parties were an important part of the climate agreement, they were important to get this in place. So I have no problem sharing the honor with them for this. It is a common Norwegian project that we are implementing in the world. So Per-Kristian Foss, quite timely, was in the critique of the quota system. I share that view that the quota system is at an early stage, especially the green development mechanism is far from perfect. It's a child that we absolutely need, but that needs to grow up and get stronger. However, some of the difficulties in purchasing allowances are due to the system’s functioning. Agreements were made on the purchase of allowances, for example: in the case of Chinese hydroelectric power projects, which did not then receive the UN authorisation necessary for this to be part of the quota system. So the fact that you have a hard authorisation procedure is an important part of it. It's absolutely right to be very aware of this. It is a difficult challenge to make the green development mechanism work in a good way. Veritas has, among others: criticizes multiple points here. I share many of Veritas' views that we need to improve that system. So to the representative, Mr Vaksdal, I would say: it says it in the newspapers today, and we want to inform the Biggest about it, but the government has decided to go mainly into the EU harmonisation of the quota system. I think it is difficult to imagine that Norway should have very special arrangements where there are competing Norwegian industries. For oil and gas activities, which are not subject to competition, there is a completely different situation. We can have our own fees there. In the end, we can come back to it, to the Syversen: I share the view that we should look at the organisation between the departments in the years to come, and look at how the Ministry of Environment can get an overall authority. We are following a long tradition, but we must have a broad debate on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e353	The President must be allowed to point out in connection with the Council of State reference that the national product is Left-Man, that the Stortinget is not informed that that position has been converted into a political position, and assumes that in the future we can also regard the national product as a neutral official. Should there be plans for anything else, the president expects the Stortinget to be informed about it. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e358	I can't almost dare to comment on the President's remark. If we were to have such a party name behind some officials, it probably wasn't the left that was mentioned most times! That might explain that it was mentioned this time. Otherwise, I fully agree. I would like to ask about the coordination responsibility, since, after all, it is such an important part of the National Audit Office's points: What does the Council of State think of him as the biggest challenge in terms of his coordination responsibility in achieving the objectives we have actually set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e365	Let me first say that of course people in the office are absolutely neutral, but I am a little proud to have appointed both former Vice-Chairman and former leader in the Young Left to central office and also Jørn Holme to ricksantikvar. I think I almost alone have provided more left-wing people with central positions in the office than the Left has managed to get large-scale representatives. These are good people, and what they vote today, I haven't asked them about either. But these are people who have gone a good school in the left, and that's a good thing. So it's clear that there's a central question that's being asked here. If we could see a few years in advance, I'm not hiding that I think we should have a Ministry of Environmental Protection with several of the possibilities that the Ministry of Finance has, so more clearly go into other sectors to stamp it. But the government has had the same organization in this area that all previous governments have had, and this is a discussion for the future. It is clear that the other sectoral ministries are, of course, responsible for the main interests of the sector and will not always be able to see to the same extent what environmental measures must do to get into the overall plan that is to be taken, for example. to achieve the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e374	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e379	This became a debate that went a little further than most of us might have foreseen, and that the appointment of the Left would be a relatively large part of it, at least I had not predicted in advance. Of course, it's the article from Per-Kristian Foss that makes me take the word, both because it's important to clarify, and because the theme is important. First of all, if I'm perceived as being over the line from the National Audit Office, it's to stretch it way too far, and interpret me way too far. On the contrary, I believe that I have used the expression that this was close to – but not above – the line. And, as I also underlined, the Riksrevision is of course free to present what they want, whenever they want. But on the other hand, we are free in this room to discuss on a free basis what is being presented. I want to make a point, and I still stand firm, that you're getting close to what's going on in political processes. The climate agreement came two and a half years ago. This is also a view shared by an overall committee. In fact, a single committee indicates that the climate agreement is open to control stations and further development of national instruments every five years, and that this will contribute to appropriate control of this important work. Otherwise, I share Foss' considerations around the international quota system. There are many relevant issues, there is a lot of money, and there are absolutely crucial mechanisms for us to succeed in achieving our goals. So, in my opinion, the very relevant theme is the Riksrevisioner travels. On the other hand, if I am allowed to point to paragraph 1.3.4.1 of the vote, where the Riksrevision has an epistle and a section on differentiated CO2 tax and reports that it provides different incentives for CO2 reduction measures, it is, in my opinion, as I read in a textbook on social economy, or in a position of the Ministry of Finance, that we know of course that this. This is part of the consciousness of each crossroad when it is dealt with in the state budgets. This is politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e396	I am pleased that the rapporteur now believes that the Riksrevision has not crossed the line. I said earlier that the Riksrevision is not near any line, because they are completely free to evaluate at any time, and early in the phase, we can learn more from than late in the phase of control. I also think it is right and important that the Riksrevision points out the obvious. But it is not always as easy to understand in Stortinget that differentiated instruments also produce very different results. What we have experienced this week is that SV has launched a kind of campaign that says that no matter what the Right may mean, they are approaching the Advance Party. It's in itself an interesting campaign, which I understand has a goal a little bit outside this hall. State Council Solheim did not repeat it in this debate, for he repeated it five times in the debate on the Purchasing Centre Regulation and the National Antiquitiesvart earlier this week. Whatever the role of these central purchasing centre regulations or the role of the national product for greenhouse gas emissions, I will leave to the Council of State itself to explain in a later meeting. But to the political. I get the answer, because it was the representative Langeland who now, in his more lukewarm tone, repeated this in a slightly different form than the Council of State earlier this week. Then I'd rather try myself in a similar way and say: my experience in politics is that when party traps are praised by political opponents, it's to say something wrong about others in the party. Let me say it like this on behalf of Børge Burnde: He was not converted with very much praise from SV when he was Minister of Environmental Protection. Of course, it is always nice to have it afterwards, but then it often has a different purpose. I can also say the following: the right is on the climate agreement. In addition to the representative Skei Grande, who stressed that the Right is also on it, I can say on behalf of the Right that we do. We have not said anything else in Stortinget. If the government wants to test us on this earlier, the government can speed up the notification from 2011 to the fall of 2010, then you get a previous test on it. But we are not the ones who have exposed the climate-currency follow-up. It's the government itself that has thought that it needs more time on it. If it wanted to test the Storting's collective resolution on the climate agreement earlier, it could have promoted the matter earlier. First of all, there is a disagreement on the impact assessment for the Lofoten/Westerålen. But let me say it this way: in the period we're talking about, until 2018, I'm probably somewhat in doubt if even an accelerated impact assessment will have significant effects on the climate in this period, knowing the time it takes to develop even good findings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e409	With the representative's references to the rosy mention of party traps, the president is tempted to refer to former Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli, who was asked when he left, whether he thought his successor was going to be good, and reiterated: Yes, to the extent that it might harm my successor. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3881]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e427	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e436	It is an important theme that is addressed in this Riksrevision audit report – flood damage and escape. But the findings may not be as surprising. The National Audit Office points out that municipalities today have varying knowledge of the maps available in order to identify hazards and risks. The study also shows the need for more monitoring of areas with a high risk of flooding and migration in the years to come. Following the National Audit Office’s assessment, more active guidance and strengthening measures will be required for municipalities in addition to what is now happening. It is a relatively direct call to the Ministry of Oil and Energy to be more active through its underlying agencies in the guidance and follow-up work towards municipalities. I'm not going to interfere with how the Ministry of Oil and Energy does it, but it's clear that the statesmen also have an important role to play in this context. This is a unanimous attitude, which I will not spend very much time on, except that I would say that the parties are somewhat divided in the view of whether the municipal structure is important for the follow-up work. Let me say it this way: there is not very much doubt that small municipalities may have little professional capacity to follow up the work. Whether there is in itself an argument for merging municipalities can be discussed. However, there are no stronger formulations used by the Right and the Advance Party, for example, in the position than we believe that the case shows ‘the need to look at the municipal structure in order to get more robust municipalities with sufficient competence in this important area’. When both the Christian People's Party and the government parties want to resign from the phrase 'look at', it may well say that this is a more 'touchy' theme than the main thing of the matter: the Flood and Scrambler. However, I will leave it in this context, but just point out that this is not the only case where the Stortinget has said that there is insufficient competence in smaller municipalities. Let me remind you of the many discussions about the competence of child protection, where the difference between large and smaller municipalities is also tangible. But besides that, I will leave that debate in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e443	As the rapporteur just said, there is a great deal of consensus that this is a very important matter, because in a lot of areas in our country, there are many who are exposed to both floods and hazards, and because the climate change we have seen clear examples of also in Norway can lead to what is called extreme weather and thus even greater danger of flooding and migration. The National Audit Office’s survey shows — and underlines the seriousness — that there are more than 72 000 people living in more than 24 000 households in areas designated as areas of care for rock and snow. The survey also shows that 22 000 people may be exposed to 200-year-old floods where they now live. Of course, this is very serious information for the Storting; it has to be taken seriously. This is something the Storting and other responsible bodies must be very concerned about, because it must always focus on measures that can reduce the risk of loss of life and other values. The National Audit Office’s study has been carried out between October 2008 and August 2009, and the study’s objective has been to assess the extent to which the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of the Environment, with its underlying agencies, takes account of the Storting’s decision, assumptions and national objectives to prevent just flooding and migration. The National Audit Office’s report is based on issues related to the monitoring of flood and emergency hazards carried out and how they are communicated to and used by municipalities. In addition, questions are raised about how authorities at different levels ensure that national objectives in the flood and aggressive areas are followed up. The survey is based on map analyses, surveys and interviews, and a document analysis of key survey documents has been carried out. From 1 January 2009, Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, which is a department of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has been given responsibility in terms of the flood and scrapwork. I should like to say, in line with what the rapporteur said, that it is good to have taken responsibility for this, as has now been done. But then you come to the point of a little disagreement, and I will comment in this way: there is no disagreement in the committee that small municipalities may have problems dealing with this. What's important when we have the municipal structure we have, and when we talk about this serious topic here in the main hall, is that the government agencies are able to follow the small municipalities closer up. There are several examples that it actually doesn't happen. I believe that both the Riksrevision report and we in our position and here in the staging room now put our finger on exactly this. The discussion of the municipal structure lies there, as outlined by the representative Foss. Neither do I take it up here now. We don't want that discussion right now, because of course that discussion also has many other dimensions attached to it. But in our context here, with the municipal structure that lies there, it is important to point to the recognition that small municipalities have problems dealing with it. Nevertheless, the state environments and organisations responsible for this must move closer to the municipalities. And when things happen that have to be followed up – step or other things – the state bodies must not be able to say that this is the responsibility of the municipalities, so this we keep away from before we are asked. In fact, they should be more active towards the municipalities, helping them from one day to the next, so that the municipalities do not stand alone with this great responsibility. That's what I think it's important to be told also by the government fraction. We are unanimous, as it is said, and we stress the seriousness of this matter. And it is absolutely necessary and important that the government follow it with vigilance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e469	The rapporteur, Mr Kolberg, presented the main content and observations available on the report of the National Audit Office on floods and hazards. Of course, the progress party joins in the concerns raised in the vote. It is true that the state has provided maps and information to the municipalities, but there has been a lack of use in this area, and even worse, a lack of knowledge that maps have actually been made available. It points to a big problem. I don't think it's that the municipalities are uninterested in this type of information, but we know that there's a lot of paper coming from the state, departments, supervision, etc., and it could be a challenge for small municipalities, like this. Flee in my home country, with 900 inhabitants. There's a lot to watch out for, which may be some of the explanation behind why the information is unknown. The representative of Kolberg pointed out that some of the solution lies in the fact that the state needs to improve the information and follow-up of these small municipalities. Maybe some of the solution is to limit the flow of paper. Of course, some of the solution lies in the municipalities themselves, that they need to be more careful about what comes from information, but it is also important that we have large and robust municipalities that are able to capture this type of important information. One thing is the municipalities that have access to the information, but do not use it for different reasons. In fact, there are also some places in Norway where you didn't have these maps and this mapping, as of 2008. If we look at page 9 of the National Audit Office's report, it's well documented where you can expect 200-year-old floods. But on page 11 there is cause for concern about snow and rock cliffs, for two large Eastern states, Buskerud and Hedmark, are not mapped as of 2008, as I understand the maps. I can assure you that Buskerud is not a flat state without the risk of snow and rock climbing. We actually have a significant hilly terrain in that county. On page 12, we see that significant parts of the country have not been surveyed in terms of mercury. We just have to hope that the most vulnerable areas have been prioritised in this field. We've seen some disastrous results from what such campwalks can lead to. We record in the papers that the department will increase the mapping. In its setting, the Committee also specifies this. I thought I'd end up with a quote from the setting, which in itself is the important thing in this context, from the first column on page 7, where the committee says: ‘The Committee stresses that the study shows that there is a need for more identification of areas with a high risk of flooding and migration in the future and underlines the importance of this work.’ That is the very central thing, in my opinion, in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e491	I have to say I was a little startled when the Riksrevision presented this report that the level of knowledge around the municipalities about this important field was so small. That's why it was very nice that the National Audit Office grabbed hold of this area, so that we became aware of it and could grab hold of it. I'm sure the state council has already followed up, and in any case, the strong signals from Stortinget say that the state, among other things. at NVE, must go out harder to put these important things in place. We used to have, in the previous case, a debate on climate. That's exactly what we're talking about here, too, because because of climate change, there's going to be more progress and more flooding – there's going to be more weather, and there's going to be more trouble. This means that the risk of accidents increases due to climate change, because of our pollution, because of our greenhouse gas emissions. That's why a higher focus on this right now, from the state and government side, is absolutely necessary. So a short clarification when it comes to this with small municipalities. Well, we're all pretty sure that small municipalities can't have this competence, but we're not sure that it means that one should have a municipal consensualization. The Christian People's Party writes that one should have intercommunal cooperation. It's also good and good. I totally agree with that. But then we must not forget that we have the county council, and we have the state's representative in the county, the county, who has a special responsibility here, and as I think, based on the report that the Riksrevision has made, this responsibility must be taken more seriously than they have done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e502	Flood and escape is something we have to learn to live with in Norway, but we have to take it seriously, and we have to do what we can to prepare and prevent the consequences of the escape and escape as best we can. In this case, a term like 500-year-old flood and 200-year-old flood meets. There are things that give policy dimensions. We also know that climate change will increase these challenges in the future. I think there are two main challenges that are important here. Firstly, we need to strengthen knowledge and research in these fields, and, as the National Audit Office's report says, spatial planning in the municipalities is crucial. The government has made a great effort in terms of progress, and one has established, in the middle of this period that the Riksrevision examined, a new state step-by-step. One went from a situation where more than half of the departments had a ownership to prevent floods and migrations, to a clearly defined state pace. There is reason to believe that this will strengthen government governance and strengthen state competence, so that one can achieve the goal agreed by the Storting, which is to enable municipalities to deal with these issues. I think we have to admit that the country in this area is very diverse. There are municipalities like Bergen, with a large population and a great risk of accidents, and there are municipalities with very large floods and hazards and with very few inhabitants, and there are municipalities in my homelands where neither migration nor flooding are particularly topical. We have to take that into account in this case. It is pointed out here at the merger of municipalities and it is clarified that we should not have a debate on the merger of municipalities, but I believe that one must also see that some municipalities have had to deal with floods and escapes for a long time. One has used local competence, one has had local competence in the field that one has used in its planning work. One must not substantiate what is in local knowledge when adopting spatial plans. It is not necessarily the case that municipalities with even more square kilometres will strengthen local knowledge of this. But there is reason to have expectations of significant improvements now that the NVE has really come up as state step-by-step. The NVE has its right of objection, which must be used. I will end by saying that in this area, the government has really made an effort. One has taken the grip that it is to roll over in the bureaucracy and establish a state step-by-step. In another area, very closely related to this, which is the Department of Transport, there has been a significant strengthening of racial protection, and there is reason to believe that developments in this area are at the highest level on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e519	This is probably an area where the term «better lead than quick» has its absolute validity. As I said, there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on the comments we share in the Riksrevision report. I agree with the previous speakers that the approach that has now been taken, the more clear responsibility of the NVE for the follow-up to this, must be expected to produce results. It is interesting to note that the Riksrevision and the study we now have for treatment cannot conclude that municipalities are changing the extent of their construction activity in areas that are subject to a step-by-step or mercury risk from state monitoring. In other words, knowledge does not lead to changes in decisions. As has been pointed out, this could have fatal consequences. I have nothing to say but that, except for this run-in to the municipal debate. There's a special comment. I don't necessarily think the answer here when it comes to getting better preparedness is larger municipalities. But the answer is at least better knowledge and willingness to take knowledge seriously and better follow-up from the NVE. Child protection was referred to as another area where small municipalities may have problems, including: to have sufficient expertise. This is at least a good example in an area where municipalities cooperate, how many small municipalities in the country go together, get a larger trade union environment – and I believe from it also a strengthened child protection for their region. So the answer for us is not necessarily fewer municipalities, but at least better cooperation and willingness to take knowledge seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e530	There are two reasons why I take the floor in this case, which I am once again very pleased that the Court of Auditors has presented, because it is a great warning for us. I grew up in one of the most flood-, mercury- and race-stricken municipalities in the country: Overhalla municipality, where children are not allowed to play in the basin, not because adults are afraid of water, but they are afraid because just moving a rock in the stream means that the stream is digging somewhere else, and then it has fatal consequences. It's a little bit built, where each generation has its great race and great tragedies. Then I come to what I think is also a warning in this case, and which is a good example of the challenge facing the welfare state as a whole in Norway. When you talk about merging municipalities, there's someone who makes it sound like a big savings project. It's not. I don't think merging municipalities is particularly economical, but it's about what's the challenge for the Norwegian welfare state. Yes, it's competence. The fight today is about getting the wise heads to work in the right places. Then you can do what the Center Party does, lean back and say, if something is too big for the municipalities, then the government has to take it. Then you lose the local knowledge that I've grown up with – like the kids aren't supposed to play in the pelvis and not build dams wrong, because then when you have areas of mercury that you might not even know were there. Therefore, knowledge must be local, but it must have a size of the municipal structure that attracts good professionals who can provide good solutions for citizens in the future. When I was at my first municipal government course for new elected representatives – when I was 17 – old people sat there and told them that they remembered that the municipal government meetings were held at the rapporteur's house, and that the municipal register was a physical box that was under the guise of the finnua to the rapporteur. We still have the same municipal structure as when it was the reality of my municipality. It is clear that when you have not only a municipality that has a minimum offer, but a municipality where you expect to have the best engineers, that you have to have the best librarian, that you have to have a head of the health home that manages to make good solutions for the elderly, that manages to make good watch arrangements, that can be creative on good solutions, and that when you have to have engineers to know when it is dangerous to put a residential area there and there, and what campaigns you should have for people who live in very rough areas, and who have to think about when they take the tractor over the farm, where they do it, because they are actually in a very vulnerable area – that is the competence we need in the municipalities, in future welfare municipalities, you don't get the best engineers if you offer a quarter job, you don't get the best librarian if you have a quarter position. And you don't get a child's protection that dares go into those families that are the hardest to go into, if you don't have a child's protection where there's an environment where you can deal with some big challenges. This is not a saving. Making municipal mergers is not a saving. It is a local democracy reform, and it is a reform of competence to build our welfare state. This is a very good example that keeping competence locally leads to something quite different than making some big superstructures. The local democracy actually leads to the fact that the farmer who lives in the area that is so racially exposed knows how to drive the tractor, because he has spoken to the local engineer who is an expert in race and who the municipality can afford to have. That's what this is about when it comes to building the welfare state. Therefore, this is a matter that shows very well what challenges we are facing. It's not just municipalities that don't take these racial challenges seriously. We all remember when we were going to build the Gardermoban and the state was a builder. Anyone who has read the secondary syllabus knows about the mercury field between Oslo and Gardermoen. But the state was in a hurry to expand the Gardermoban to do something about the mercury field that everyone has read about in higher education. This is happening all the time, but it is important to build competences locally, because it is the local competence that actually leads to the actions needed for those living in the most at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e549	Some of us definitely think that the tractor could have had a more central place in several of the Storting's debates. Now, at least we've come to the conclusion that we've put together a little different issues in a big, demanding debate, in an area where we see that the needs around us are great. The National Audit Office’s study of the prevention of floods and migration involves tasks that have been entrusted to Norway’s watercourse and energy Directorates for a long time and new tasks. As a watercourse authority, the NVE has traditionally been responsible for the prevention of floods and watercourse-related events. For other types of action, until last year, government responsibility was spread across a number of departments, when the government – as mentioned earlier in the debate today – took responsibility for the NVE. The NVE shall work on prevention of escape in the same holistic manner as they do on floods. The NVE shall contribute to the identification and information of danger areas, to the guidance and follow-up of spatial planning and land disposal, to the planning and implementation of security measures, to the monitoring and alerting of hazards, and to assist in emergency and emergency situations. State intervention is now concentrated and strengthened, and municipalities have one place to seek assistance. As the National Audit Office and the Committee point out, the collection of state responsibilities under the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure their citizens does not change. The National Audit Office points out that many municipalities do not have sufficient competence to handle floods and migration and to benefit from state monitoring. The Committee points out that targeted and active State action is necessary, in parallel with the establishment of NVE’s responsibilities. I see that need. The NVE has therefore set up a separate section to gather, structure and disseminate knowledge on floods and hazards. The section is located in Förde, and an important task for the section will be to contribute to increasing the pace of competence in the municipalities. Another area pointed to by the Riksrevision is the lack of dissemination of maps to municipalities, and in particular the map of care for rock and snow. In recent years, various state agencies have been responsible for producing and disseminating the roadmaps. I agree that the communication of hazards is one of the areas that has been poorly addressed. This is one of the reasons why the NVE has assumed responsibility for screening and information on hazards. NVE has extensive experience in the development and dissemination of flood and watercourse-related action hazard maps. The hazard maps are personally handed over to both the administration and political management of the municipality in question. Now the NVE is going to do the same thing to the scratch cards. This will lead to better dissemination of maps and thus more active use of maps in spatial planning and further detail mapping. I am sure that the gathering of the state's efforts to prevent floods and incidents at NVE will lead to a more comprehensive and more effective response by the state. It will help to make municipalities better equipped to prevent both flooding and migration in the future and help improve the security of Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e566	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3881]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e582	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to four lines with replies after the post of the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e591	This is an important matter, where the Riksrevision points out that the Stortinget has not received information that is sufficient to measure the results of Enova’s efforts. By 2011, Enova shall trigger projects providing new, environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving equivalent to 18 TWh per year through its use of the instrument. Through this management report, the National Audit Office records that the Ministry of Oil and Energy assumes that this objective is achieved through contractual results. Following the National Audit Office's assessment, it cannot be assumed that the projects have been triggered by contract fastening. It is an overall committee that agrees. The Committee expresses itself correctly through a majority and a minority, but it will be seen that there is an overall committee asking for the actual results and not the contractual results. Why is there a difference between these? Well, first of all, contractual projects can fall away. There are conditions in the outside world that make them unrealized. So then the relationship between contract fixing and actual results is enormous, because then the actual result is zero. Then it may turn out that the energy savings result becomes significant during the contractual period, and that has been shown by experience. So, the numbers that the Storting has got have always been above the actual results. It goes without saying that it's a measuring instrument that's not satisfactory. Hasn't the Storting been aware of this? Well, the Storting has asked a number of times and still got the same answer. I show you, among other things: to the setting on page 9, where it is pointed out that the Council of State in response to an enquiry by the Stortingen concerning Document No. 15:1227 for 2008-2009 states: ‘Enova’s results are reported annually through the State budget. Here is an overview of how much Enova allocates to the different areas of activity and the energy results. See, for example, St.prp. [[2008-2009]] No Add The majority point out that this is not correct. It is not the actual result that has been reported through these documents. The attitude also shows that when government councils — in this case, Councillor Erik Solheim — express their opinion on areas for which there is no constitutional responsibility, it is not very reassuring either. For, as indicated in the setting, he has also emphasised strongly ‘that the reporting should be retrospective’. It's quoted in the setting. That's what State Council Solheim would like to say, because he has no responsibility for it, and he then pushes this responsibility further. I think the Storting should notice this, because it's always tempting to ask the Council of State to comment on areas other than what they're responsible for, and then there's a lot of evidence to suggest that they have little idea of it as well. The majority also notes that, as I said, only the contractual results and not the final results reported by the government are reported to the Stortinget. The majority, that is to say the opposition, believe that it is critical that the Storting has not been informed of the actual results. The minority, which should also be referred to by the rapporteur, also says – I refer to the setting, page 10, first column – that they share ‘the perception that the reporting has been incomplete’. Well, that's probably a slightly different way of saying it, but if "lack of" means that there's a distance between the results achieved and the results reported, you have to say that it's flawed. The same minority, the representatives of the government parties, also say that the gap between contractual results and realised final results is too large in the opinion of these members. This is an opinion I also share, but at the same time, I see that there may be reasons why contractual results are far above, because you are ambitious on behalf of the projects. Therefore, it is all the more important that the Storting get actual results reported rather than the contractual ones. This is a small reminder to Enova and to the Department that you have to have a procedure to ensure that at least you don't have too many projects that are contractually fixed, but never realized, that is, with the final result zero in energy saving. I'll leave it with this, because I think it's made clear through the setting that the Stortinget will have a different report – from today. The National Audit Office also points to another problem that I should mention very briefly. They say that there is reason to point out that Enova has a procedure that makes it possible to vary considerably from case to case in the course of the procedure, because there is only one case handler on projects, and that the case handler is often also in and helps to prepare the application. I have no criticism of that. However, if it is the same person who also deals with the application, and there are no others in the picture, different treatments may arise. That's an observation that I think is correct. At the same time, it is important to say that we expect Enova to operate unbureaucratically, and that it is not an objective that the number of case handlers reaches the maximum. At the same time, it is worth saying that when signing the State's Financial Regulations, compliance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation is also mandatory in the case of proceedings. Maybe there's a dilemma here. Let me highlight the fact that it is the results obtained and the prompt processing that are at least the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e615	The ambitions we have for Enova are high. What has been said both by the rapporteur now and in the vote is that Enova is committed to the objective of triggering projects that provide new environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving equivalent to 18 TWh by the end of 2011. I would like to stress that in many fields Enova is doing a good job, and they are delivering good results. But with the big tasks Enova has in mind, it is now good that the Riksrevision has examined whether Enova effectively promotes environmentally friendly conversion of energy production. Therefore, for the government fraction and the government parties, it is of course very important that Enova works as intended. I would like to point out clearly that the Riksrevision confirms that Enova's activity offer contributes to the purposes that Enova is set to achieve. Projects, e.g.: In order to increase energy efficiency in industry, good results have also been achieved with significant cuts in both energy use and emissions for the companies that have implemented measures. But, and it's a big but, the Riks revision also has critical remarks that need to be taken seriously. The government fraction has also expressed its clear opinion on this in its comments. The Government Parties to the Committee have taken note of the criticism of the Riksrevision that it is reported on contractual figures and not on the actual results obtained. We share the view that reporting has been inadequate, and ask the Ministry of Oil and Energy to focus on the implementation of projects and better reporting on what is being implemented and what has actually been implemented. We assume that realised final results are also reported to Stortinget in the future. In order not to create any confusion about the efficiency of Enova or what is made at what price, we believe that the distance between contractual results and realised final products is too great. A certain deviation is not unnatural all the time when many of the contracts are associated with significant risks. Some large increases in costs, including: on the development of wind power in recent years is also part of the explanation that no investment decisions have been taken on many of the projects contracted by Enova. However, we would ask the Ministry to look more closely at the forms of contract which oblige Enova's partners more in the future than what has been the case to some extent until now. The members of the Government of the Committee see that the target of 18 TWh in the form of energy savings or new environmentally friendly energy production by 2011 is very demanding to be achieved in the form of realised final results. This is not least due to the fact that it takes a long time between an undertaking being given and a project being finalised and coming into operation. The Council of State has said that they express a willingness to achieve the objectives within the time limit set. I express confidence that the Council of State and the Government will put everything in place to achieve the objective. Finally, I would like to say that Enova's management and its organisation must look to themselves in the light that they manage an important social responsibility of great importance for the future of Norway. Of course, the government's place and responsibility are part of this, as we have also clearly expressed through this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e632	The Riksrevision report states that Enova’s realised energy results are significantly lower than the stated objectives. This applies both to total and to measures related to heat production and wind power. It also appears that both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Enova little follow up on the actual achievement of set targets. The aim is for Enova, through its use of the instrument, to trigger projects that provide new, environmentally friendly energy production. However, it turns out that realised energy results are consistently lower than Enova’s final reported results and therefore give a poor or directly erroneous picture of the situation. The Ministry, for its part, argues that the objectives are achieved through contractual results, while the Riksrevision study shows that around 40 pst. in fact, the original contractual results are cancelled. The study also identifies procedural, reporting and follow-up weaknesses in each case. I stood on this platform on 27 March 2001 and strongly warned against setting up a new, unbridled and bureaucratic organisation when the Stortinget discussed the establishment of Enova. We were also strongly opposed to the organisation being financed by an additional fee, or a surcharge in the network tariff, as it is called so fine, as the power customers had to pay, and instead arranged for market-based solutions. When we read the report from the National Audit Office, it's tempting to say, "What did we say?" In addition to what I have already mentioned, the report also points out the lack of quality assurance and verification that the procedure is consistent, transparent and subordinated. Furthermore, weaknesses in the quality and validity of reported energy results have been identified. Enova tests and follows very little on the final energy reported results. It may also appear that the organisation has supported projects that have been politically correct, rather than being technology neutral and supported projects that could provide the best energy result. The National Audit Office's report gives the organisation as well as the ministry as a base of criticism, and I assume that the department will immediately take this up and clean it up. The National Audit Office’s report also testifies to a great distance between policy commitments around Enova and deliver results in renewable energy and efficient energy use. The government’s commitments regarding a green certificate market with Sweden from 2012 will result in a significant change in Enova’s role from then on. In addition, a similar market-based system of so-called white certificates of energy saving is being discussed. In the light of the critical criticism of the National Audit Office as well as Enova’s changed assumptions for the future, it would be natural for the Stortinget to have its own case on Enova, where the organisation’s work areas, procedures and mandates were reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e649	Enova is 10 years old next year, and it's been an important organisation and an important driver to make us use less power, and to invest more in new renewable energy. That's the main goal of Enova, and they've followed it this far. But then there are some weaknesses that the Riksrevision is gripping, and that the Storting is following up today. There is no doubt that the potential for saving energy in this area is enormous. Construction industry, for example. that one can save 10–14 TWh by having more energy efficient constructions, and it is said that one has great potential, for example. in the case of wind power generation. Enova has recently allowed half a billion dollars for a wind power project on the North-Jären, which the representative Pollestad of the Center Party has just put the earth into the ground. So there's a lot of things going on. But then there's this problem with that contractual and the actual results. One can understand, as the case-speaker Foss said, that there might be a difference between this. Obviously, when it comes to the ambitions of a project, it can all of a sudden become too expensive, the market can change, it can come up with new and better plans, and thus go one way from the one you had. It's a weakness, of course, because it binds up a lot of the capital of Enova that one has to wait for this to actually be realized. That's why, in my opinion, it's wise that we now do what the majority and the government party say, we have a review of the contract types we have, just to make sure that we get more results from the contracts that are entered into. Then it's important to say, as the case-speaker was also concerned, that there is a danger with all of the control activities that the Riksrevision requires us to have, when one can risk taking people out of the case and making them count and make results instead. So the fact that this can lead to bureaucracy, it's a question mark that you have to bring with you in the further work. It is not the intention of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in this matter. In fact, the intention is that we should get better results and ensure that the ambitious targets that one has when it comes to Enova, about 18 TWh new production or saved energy by 2011, as the Council of State has said, are before the range. It should be the main focus of Enova – not a bureaucracy and a count of results. A review of the types of contract and the form of contract to be carried out by the Council of State will hopefully make it easier to achieve the ambitious objectives of the Stortinge case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e660	The center party believes that the idea behind Enova is fundamental right. There should be a small and small bureaucratic activity – two things that are crucial for an enterprise that is so dependent on interaction with private actors. Nor is it unexpected that the project will be cancelled, and therefore it is natural that there is a certain difference between the contractual results and the actual results. But it is important that Enova still has room to provide support for risky projects and for projects with a long time from allocation to the day you see energy results. The government parties are clear that parts of the Riksrevision criticism are considered justified and that the distance between the actual results and the realised results is too great. But for the Central Party, it is important not to use this report for a conversion that means that Enova is no longer able to manoeuvre in a private market. For the Centre Party, it is also important that this report and the setting make it possible for Enova to continue to take the opportunity to support under exciting but risky projects. The centre party is concerned that Enova will not become a bureaucratic troll, although this will help to establish state jobs outside Oslo. I am pleased with the signals that the representative Foss made in his post, and see that there is a common understanding that you should take the report seriously, but you should not take action that weakens Enova's ability to do the job that Stortinget has ordered them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e671	I could initially answer very briefly to what was taken up by the committee here today, and then I would sum it up in three main conclusions. Firstly, contractual results alone are not comprehensive to see the results of Enova’s work. Secondly, final reporting, as I see it, will be a vital part of measuring Enova's business. And thirdly, Storting's desire for more detailed reporting in relation to Enova's final results will be followed up. But I want to deepen something more complete about this issue, because I'm also there that I think these are big and important questions, and with the great funds that Enova manages on behalf of the community, we should also be critical of resource use. Enova needs to get better. It is a young organisation and, as such, it should provide a basis for significant learning, etc. in Enova. It is therefore important to carry out studies and evaluations of activities. The main objective of Enova is to promote environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production, and the Riksrevision confirms that Enova’s activity offers contribute to this objective. I'm happy about that. The National Audit Office has identified shortcomings in that performance reporting, which they consider should become more comprehensive. I am concerned with good results reporting, and there has been a continuous development in this area. Enova’s performance reports have become better and more detailed as the business has developed and the project portfolio has grown. But as I said, we're going to follow up on this. The National Audit Board points out that Enova’s performance reporting is largely based on contractual results. For me as the contracting entity and owner of Enova, this is central information. It gives insight into how the appropriations of the previous year have been used, and it would be difficult for me to follow up on Enova if that information did not appeal to me. However, the most important is the realised energy results, and Enova also provides information on final reported projects. By the end of 2009, projects with expected results of 5.1 TWh had been completed. At the same time, Enova had contracted 13.8 TWh in annual new energy production. There is a high distance between the contractually agreed and the final reported result. Some of the reasons are that it takes a long time from a project to get a commitment to support until it is completed. This is also due to the fact that Enova had more limited resources in the first years after it was established. As you know, we've tripled the support for Enova in recent years. Enova is making continuous efforts to process projects over time, both in industry and in construction. Often it is essential that they take the time when they may influence the behaviour and decisions of the project owner. In industry it may be in connection with pre-planned stoppages in the production of maintenance or other investments. In the construction sector, it is mainly in the case of new construction or major renovations. Many of the projects supported by Enova are complex. The very largest projects in industry use an average of four years from the time they are promised support until they are completed. Large heating projects and construction projects use four and a half years and five years respectively. Medium-sized projects naturally spend a little less time. This means that the majority of projects supported in 2007 will not be completed until this year and next year. As I was aware, Enova has been strengthened, particularly since 2008, which was the first year of return from the basic fund, and it is therefore natural that the results of this increased effort have still not been finalised. The size of the project will be presented as the projects are completed. Then I would like to follow up on some of the things that the rapporteur has so far touched on in his statement on cost-effectiveness. 20 pst. the energy results that Enova has contracted over time belong to cancelled projects. If we keep the wind power projects out – just to look at the different sectors – the number is 13 pst., that is 13 pst. the contractual results of Enova's portfolio have been cancelled. We have to remember that Enova's task in the agreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Enova is to get the highest possible energy results per krona used, i.e. per support crown. Then Enova's mission is not to overcompensate. Projects must therefore be expected to be cancelled. I would actually say that there would be cause for some concern if no projects had been cancelled – and then I'm not saying that the committee has expressed it in the Stortinge today. But I think that in terms of cost-effectiveness, we should be concerned that Enova is also at the frontier in relation to the level of aid granted compared to the potential of the projects to be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e697	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e700	There is a lot of evidence that Enova has largely supported politically correct projects rather than those that provide the best energy results. Will the Minister of Oil and Energy consider using technology-neutral instruments when allocating funds, so that we actually get the best possible result – or to say that as the Council of State itself said, get as much kilowatt as possible for each krona?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e705	I'm a little uncertain about how detailed the question is supposed to be in supporting politically desired projects. Because if you look at the big picture, it's exactly what the representative says, that the Storting has gone in and said that you should have your own measure, your own measure of wind power, your own measure of heat. This means that where Enova deviates from its overall objective of cost-effectiveness and enters and provides more support per kilowatt for wind power projects than for example. for heating projects and for energy efficiency projects. So it's important that Enova follow up the Storting's will on it. That's what I meant to be missing. If the representative believes that Enova is involved in individual projects based on instructions from the Council of State or others, it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e713	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3881]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e731	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3881]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e749	The President records that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is currently absent, but also records that the government is represented at the Council of State that had the previous case. The President intends to carry out the Storting meeting as planned, so the Minister of Foreign Affairs will come when he arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e752	In one month, it's been 15 years since the genocide in Srebrenica. That's the first thing in Europe after World War II. Over 8,000 boys and men were killed in a few days. Their only crime was that they were Muslims. Today, mothers in Bosnia are looking for their children. Many of them are also looking for their husbands, brothers and fathers. The burden is heavy. The lives of some of the victims have been found. The criminals have tried to hide the tracks after their horrific actions. The bodies have been moved from mass grave to mass grave. That's why it's still hard to find all the lives. Survivors live in daily fear of someone knocking on the door and saying that the lives of their loved ones have been found. Many are afraid of this message. Others hope that someone knocks on and tells us that there has finally been a trace of a sorely missing son, husband, father or brother. It is not only the victims who have not been brought to justice, but war criminals have also disappeared. The law and justice can't get Ratko Mladic. It is deeply unfair and totally unacceptable to the world, but above all to the mothers who lost their children in Srebrenica, Tuzla, Mostar, Sarajevo and the rest of Bosnia. I have met some of these mothers, and there have been heavy conversations. This is behind the developments in Bosnia. It's people who are Bosnia. It is their past and feelings that are crucial for shaping the future of the country. Norway must use its influence and its ability to press Serbia to deliver Mladic and others with blood on their hands, so that they can be tried. A prerequisite for Bosnia to move forward is that war criminals come behind locks and blows. I would like to hear the government’s view – preferably by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – on how Norway can pressure Serbia to deliver war criminals to the courts. When I visited Bosnia less than two years ago, I was amazed that children of Bosnian and Serbian background were taught in separate classrooms at the same school. They didn't play together, they didn't talk together, they were separated in the schoolyard using a fence. This also illustrates the country as a whole. Even though the war is over and the population has returned to everyday life, they live apart. There are fences set up between them – at least the heads of people. At state level, political parties are organised along ethnic lines rather than along political ideologies. Hidden and open racism plays an important role in society. The lack of mutual trust at the leadership level is discouraging. It's really nice that the country is connected. Europe needs to take this seriously. Europe must follow developments closely. To succeed in putting the sad and heavy past behind them and in being able to establish and strengthen institutions, such as the judiciary, central government and political institutions such as parliament and government, Bosnia and Herzegovina depends on much greater attention than today. The majority have never visited Bosnia since the state's establishment in the 1990s. I would encourage my colleagues to devote the attention Bosnia deserves. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has recently put Bosnia and the Balkans on his agenda. I know he has good contact with his colleague Alkalaj. We see that when time and forces are used, development is moving in the right direction. At the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Tallinn in April this year, Bosnia was granted a so-called Membership Action Plan. It has been an important matter for Bosnia for a long time. This will move Bosnia in the right direction and into a community. Bosnia is struggling with a state structure established as a result of the Dayton Agreement. From the outset, Norway has supported the Dayton Agreement and the High Representative’s office scheme. It was probably a good solution when it was introduced. Today, we know that the Dayton Agreement is a barrier to progress rather than a solution. This fact is recognised by the International Crisis Group and the Venice Commission – Europe’s own expert group on human rights and the Constitution. The European Parliament has been of the same opinion. Sonja Biserko is President of the Helsinki Committee in Belgrade. She said the following at a meeting the other day: As a result of the Dayton Agreement, Bosnia is still a non-functioning state. Furthermore, the international community has not created a necessary framework for reconciliation. Bosnia is a hostage for an unfinished stabilisation process. All attempts to reform and bring further beaches to Bosnia due to obstacles in the Dayton Agreement. Reasonable reform proposals and sensible politicians fail. There is widespread frustration over the Dayton agreement in Bosnia. Yeah, it's almost hated. There is too much danger that if good alternatives to the Dayton Agreement are not readily available, good forces can be replaced by reactionary and negative forces. There's still too much explosive in the conflict. The powder keg can go in the air. Then it can be too late – just like last time. I would like to hear the government's assessment of this relationship. As I said at the beginning of my post, over 8 000 boys and men were massacred in Srebenica in July 1995. One might say it was Bosnia's holocaust. Europe stood powerless and abiding. The victims' mothers, sisters, and wives are left without a grave to go to. They have a claim to upliftment, and a right to know the truth about what happened to their loved ones. Europe can give them some peace of mind and upliftment. The European Parliament has recognised the mass killings of the 8 000 men and boys as a genocide and declared on 11 July the official anniversary of the victims of Srebrenica. The U.S. Congress has done the same thing. Some other countries in Europe have done the same — or are in the process of doing so. Even Serbia has adopted resolutions that are not far away. For the Bosnians, it is very important that Europe takes a certain responsibility now and recognises what happened in Bosnia, as genocide. For the Bosnians, recognition from the EU and other countries has been a very important statement of support and a signal that Europe is taking responsibility for what happened during the war. My question to the government is therefore whether it is not natural for Norway to follow the European Parliament and the US Congress in declaring the acts of Srebrenica genocide, and July 11 as the official anniversary of the victims of the genocide. Bosnia is part of the Balkans, and the Balkans remain part of Europe. Peace in the Balkans is a European issue. Progress in the Balkans is our concern. I look forward to a useful debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e794	Then it is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not present in the Chamber. However, the government is represented by Minister of Oil and Energy Terje Riis-Johansen, and the President has perceived that Riis-Johansen is prepared, on behalf of the government, to be able to respond to the interpellence that has arisen. If this is true, I'll give the word to the Council of State Riis-Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e799	I guess everything's relative. I would say, when the representative Chaudhry takes up the presence in Bosnia and Norway's engagement, that at the end of the 1990s I myself had the opportunity, as a member of the Municipal Committee of the Stortinge, to visit the area. There are enough of the trips that have made the most impression on me about the questions the representative raises about suffering and problems for the local population. So I have the greatest understanding that the problem is raised. I think that is a good and important question. It is a theme that can at the same time be said to have been little ahead on the Storting's agenda, and elsewhere, too, in the last few years, but which is equally full in international discussions and meetings. The interpellation expresses concern for developments in Bosnia-Herzegovina. It is a concern that both I and the Minister for Foreign Affairs share. The country is in a demanding phase. The elections in October, and not least the election campaign, will be crucial for further development. It requires an extra vigilance from the international community. It is a development that Norway is following closely, and where we are doing what we can to influence the situation in a positive direction through a wide-ranging network of contacts. It is not our opinion that new, comprehensive acts of violence or the dissolution of Bosnia-Herzegovina as a state appear to be immediate dangers. However, there is a clear risk that the country will be dependent on neighbouring countries, both in terms of political development and European integration. International societies have increasingly emphasised overall developments for Balkan countries. The fact that one State is being followed is thus negative and it can have serious consequences along several dimensions. In Bosnian society, ethnic contradictions continue to characterise policy. Disagreements between the three constituent peoples, together with the structure of the Dayton Constitutional Act, mean that legislative reforms are slow in most cases. On other issues, such as the requirements for visa-free reforms in the Schengen area, we have seen that it is possible to achieve a lot in a short time. The international community, with the United States and the EU at the forefront, has made more efforts to promote reforms in the country. These have not succeeded to an appreciable degree. With the exception of the visa issue, little is happening in the EU process. On the other hand, there has been a reasonable development in Bosnia-Herzegovina's adaptation to NATO. But there are also challenges, mainly when we address issues that go beyond purely defence and security policy. The representative Chaudhry asks what scenarios we see for Bosnia-Herzegovina's future. Our sober assessment is that the most likely is a continuation of today’s difficult political situation — even after the elections in October. We don't see forces or trends that seem to break any of the difficult and eventually used contradictions in the country. There is broad international consensus on working towards a consolidated country that can qualify for membership of both the EU and NATO. In order to achieve this goal, the country must have greater powers than today — that is, the joint authority that can act as a pooling body on behalf of all ethnic groups. It will necessarily involve the transfer of power to the state level. Different models can be chosen for such a transfer of power. As a result of European diversity, countries have chosen very different state models — some centralised, others more decentralised. In other words, there is no model to follow, and it is not possible or desirable for the international community to dictate the direction of the reforms. So it's up to the Bosnian authorities to make the necessary choices. We can support, but we can't drive the processes. At the same time, we can observe – and we say clearly about it: today's Bosnian state structure has clear shortcomings and does not appear to be particularly sustainable, either politically or economically. Basic minority rights, including equal rights to political representation, are not adequately respected. This was last decided by the European Court of Human Rights, and the blocking mechanisms of the Constitution and decision-making structure are, moreover, too many and the financial costs of the fragmented political system. For example, there are 14 finance departments in Bosnia-Herzegovina. In other words, Bosnian politicians face a demanding task of reform. To succeed, one depends on real political will and ongoing external support. We cannot exclude a scenario with a more negative development. It is worrying that Bosnian-Serbian leaders are trying to reverse important implemented reforms, block necessary legislative changes and to a lesser extent promote the overall interests of the country. It is also worrying that the country's politicians are unable to agree on the necessary changes to bring the Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights. And it is alarming that Bosnian-Serbian politicians claim they have the right to possibly hold a referendum on liberation. Despite these challenges, we still need to put forward a scenario for the success of the state, for reforms to be implemented, and for the vision of European integration and cooperation to contribute to such a development. We're going to stick to such a scenario, because none of the options seem desirable. Interpellant asks about our assessment of the role of Norway and international society in contributing to lasting peace. A starting point for us is and has been that the international community must insist on the territorial integrity of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Norway’s political approach to Bosnia-Herzegovina and Western Balkans has generally been anchored in support of Euro-Atlantic integration. This support should continue. Both NATO and EU membership are realistically ahead of time. However, the integration processes in both organisations contain mechanisms that can support important reform processes. Norway is also actively contributing to peace and reconciliation efforts and to state-building through the means of assistance. We have e.g. played a central role in the construction of the necessary judicial institutions at state level. 15 years after the end of the war, Bosnia-Herzegovina still has an international High Representative with very wide powers. The Steering Committee of the Peace Implementation Council, to which the High Representative is accountable, has defined some reform requirements that must be met before this High Representative function can be completed. Norway has supported the maintenance of the High Representative until these requirements are met. At the same time, we have to deal with changed ground conditions. The role of the High Representative is controversial in the country, and much indicates that there will be a new discussion of its role after the elections in October. Bosnia-Herzegovina is also getting higher on the international agenda. At two central meetings attended by the Minister for Foreign Affairs this spring, the relationship with Bosnia-Herzegovina has been discussed in depth. At the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Tallinn in April, the approval of a so-called Membership Action Plan, MAP, for Bosnia-Herzegovina was an important issue, i.e. a follow-up to the discussion at the Foreign Minister's meeting in Brussels last December, where no agreement was reached and the whole matter was put at risk. Norway was in the early stages of supporting Bosnian MAP status, and our assessment has been that in this way we can better intervene in the country's reform process. At the same time, our embassy in Sarajevo is the NATO contact point embassy. So we work closely with several allied countries, especially countries from the region, to find a solution. Our analysis was that the MAP status would be a good incentive for progress in the reform process. Some allies believed that this should instead be used as a future reward for the results achieved. Both arguments are relevant, and I perceive that the compromise that was put in place was good. Bosnia-Herzegovina was granted MAP status, but with clear demands that the complex issue of the distribution of defence property needs to be resolved within a year. This solution was well received in the country. On 11 May, the Foreign Minister meeting in the Council of Europe was held, and Bosnia and Herzegovina remained high on the agenda. The background was that the country assumed some commitments when it became a member in 2002, which it has not been able to follow up. Changes need to be made, including: to bring the Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights. The case was brought to the fore by a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in December 2009. Two Bosnian citizens had filed an action against the State because they were not elected to the presidency or to the second chamber of Parliament. Today's Bosnian constitution divides the seats of these two institutions between representatives of the three constituent peoples, Bosnians, Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats. The Bosnian state lost the case, and the pressure to change the Constitution and the electoral law has increased. Both the Foreign Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have been very clear in their opinions. However, a change is hardly in place in time for the elections in October. But a quick process is not just an expectation, but a commitment Bosnia-Herzegovina has taken on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e854	I thank you for a good, solid answer. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is also in the Chamber now, so I hope we get some more questions and some more answers. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will be able to respond better on the basis of his area of competence and his knowledge of Bosnia as his function. We in Norway have done a good job in Bosnia. We've spent about 1.8 billion. kr – perhaps more than that – over the last ten years on building up Bosnia and Bosnia institutions and human rights. We have good contact with Bosnia. We often travel – apart from the Storting, it should be possible to do something about it – but I am not sure whether Europe has done its part of the job. It is a feeling in Bosnia that Europe has not given Bosnia the attention that Bosnia deserves, given the fact that in the 1980s and 1990s we saw which way it was going. We couldn't give them that attention. So it really went wrong. We know that things don't happen overnight; it always takes time. That's what happened in Rwanda, how it happened in Sri Lanka. We can't get on the offensive, we can't see things until that happens. It is therefore important that we use all the means of power we have to press the Serbs in Bosnia – as I heard in the response to the interpellation – to get the Constitution in Bosnia in line with the Convention on Human Rights. That's maybe the most important thing that has to be done, and it doesn't happen by itself. Then it is absolutely right that Bosnia's territorial integrity must be respected and consolidated. There's been a better relationship between Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia lately, that relationship is on the way to improvement. I want to hear now if the Foreign Minister can tell us a little bit more about this relationship, and not least how it can be strengthened. Trade between Norway and Bosnia is not very high. There's a job to do. I would like to hear if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has any thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e867	To some of the questions from the representative Chaudhry, and first to this on Norway, can press Serbia to deliver war criminals to the court. We agree with the broad European opinion that Serbia must deliver on this. I believe that Serbia is under the considerable pressure offered by the European integration process. We support it. Then we also support what happens from contacts between the countries in the region, and as, among other things, Turkey has actively contributed to the dialogue between Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia and also between Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia. It's a diplomacy that we've supported, and where we actually have a pretty close cooperation with Turkey. The representative also addresses questions about the Dayton Agreement. Our assessment is that the Dayton agreement succeeded in creating peace, but has not fully succeeded in building a state. But the challenge here, as in some other such contexts, is that finding it still leaves a long way to doing something about it. Because if you start touching the Dayton agreement, you touch something that the representative himself says is close to a powder barrel. So this time you can't make changes without the parties being fully aware of it and participating in it. It's a big challenge. So here I think we need to do a combination of taking the time to help – time can be used positively, but can also be negative – to try to push forward a development. It was also our attitude to MAP status at NATO's meeting, namely that Bosnia sees a way forward in cooperation with the international community. So finally, with regard to the European Parliament and the mass killings: I want to make it very clear that Norway has consistently supported and dealt with the International Criminal Court, which has made it clear that Serbia has violated the obligation to prevent genocide, genocide, and refers to the existing conventions for it. So people are convicted of carrying out genocide. It follows that we recognise that use of the Court of Justice. In Norway, we have not had a tradition of adopting political terms, neither in Parliament nor elsewhere, for such crimes. I think it's a wise approach that we do this legally and not politically. But let me now say from this speaker, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, that we support the clear wording of the Court of Justice. As for the date of July 11, I see that it has a big symbol meaning. Of course, there's nothing that prevents people from having markings in a dignified way just on July 11th, linked to those who were killed, and that crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e880	The President must be allowed to stress to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Stortinget expects the current state councils to be present when their affairs are dealt with. It is all the more underlined because the second time this week, the Stortinget experiences that a Council of State — and that is not the fault of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the second case — is not present when the Stortinget deals with its affairs. I can assure the members of the Storting that this issue will be addressed with the Prime Minister's office with a view to making it possible to carry out the Stortinge treatment properly for the future. The next speaker is Sverre Myrli. [[Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre indicates from the Chamber that he wishes to speak.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e887	The Foreign Minister will be given the floor at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e890	We've made it easy to forget. It is obviously in the human nature. Questions that are high on the agenda one day may be forgotten the next. 15 years ago, we were all concerned with the war in the Balkans. The camera lenses were set up on the cruel conflict that there was exuberant. It's not like that anymore. But we all have a responsibility not to forget the Balkans – centrally located in Europe, not very far away. It has been said that Yugoslavia in its time was the country of six republics, five nations, four languages, three religions, two alphabets and a Yugoslav: Tito. Accurate ethnic, political and economic conflicts between the six sub- republics led to the dissolution of Yugoslavia and the creation of many independent states in the early 1990s. Bosnia-Herzegovina declared itself independent in April 1992. Compared to many other countries in the region, the standard of living in Yugoslavia was relatively high, but the standard of living was unevenly distributed among the various sub- republics. Bosnia-Herzegovina was probably by the poorest areas, in addition to having a very complex population. But Bosnia-Herzegovina was pre-war in the 1990s marked by coexistence between the different ethnic groups. The pattern of residence went across ethnic and religious differences, and mixed marriages were common. When the war in the Balkans broke out as a result of the Slovenian and Croatian declarations of independence in 1991, the acts of war took place largely on Croatian soil. But when the war spread, Bosnia-Herzegovina was going to be the hardest hit. In the past, there had been no major problem that the population consisted of three large and a number of smaller populations. After the war broke out, it became difficult to handle just this. And here, as we remember, the leaders of the neighbouring republics of Serbia and Croatia had central roles – unfortunately. In Bosnia-Herzegovina we really saw what extreme nationalism and ethnic cleansing can bring. This is one of the backstops of today's challenges in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Because there is no doubt that the country has major challenges. Bosnia-Herzegovina is probably one of the six republics of the former Yugoslavia with the greatest challenges. Here the international community has a responsibility and a role. And it is in our interest that there is peace, stability and progress in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in the Balkans too. One prerequisite for all of this is that we have a social development in Bosnia-Herzegovina in line with the rest of the region, and that it is characterized by respect for human rights and all that we associate with democratic governance and open society. I am not quite sure that these assumptions are present to a sufficient extent today. Another prerequisite for ensuring positive development is that the international community is willing to provide sufficient resources – not only economically, although it clearly also needs to, but also politically, to support the necessary and necessary reforms to ensure democratic social development. Because there is no doubt that Bosnia-Herzegovina has major challenges – I think I would say huge challenges. Let me give you some facts about economic development: Gross domestic product fell in 2009 by 3 pst., exports fell by 24 pst., and unemployment is between 30 and 40 pst., slightly dependent on how you calculate. From a point of view that was already relatively weak, the effects of the financial crisis — on top of all other challenges — represent significant challenges for the authorities in the country. In two weeks' time, I will be in Bosnia-Herzegovina as head of a delegation from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We're going to meet both political and military leaders to hear their views on the country's development. In fact, Norway and Norway’s Embassy in Sarajevo play an important role in this international delegation trip. Our embassy is so-called NATO contact point embassy for the Bosnians. I have pointed out in this article that Bosnia-Herzegovina has significant challenges. But let's not do it in black. There are also many positive developments in the justice, police, defence and other fields. As mentioned above, Norway has contributed to several of these processes. Let's keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e928	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing this question. Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Balkans have a painful and difficult story behind them. The wars of the 1990s created deep conflicts between ethnic and religious groups, which it will undoubtedly take a long time before they are properly settled. The Dayton Agreement of 1995 established peace between the parties, but also described how the parties to Bosnia would cooperate and build a future functioning federation of the different populations of the country. Since it has sought to integrate Bosnian foreign policy into both the EU and NATO. The road to EU membership still seems very long, but Bosnia has had MAP status – i.e. Membership Action Plan status – in NATO. Norway played an important role in achieving this, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs deserves to be commended for. The MAP status also means pressure on Bosnia-Herzegovina to develop reforms in the right direction. It is a major challenge to integrate three ethnic and 17 small groups into a common national project. The war, as I said, set deep tracks. Many in the growing generation have experienced that their parents have been subjected to killing, assault or displacement. Some of these have even witnessed these atrocities to their closest ones. Such experiences we know that it's not just easy to put a line over. There is a real danger that a situation may arise, where these conflicts are reexamined. Interpellant asks what Norway and the international community can contribute in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Now it is the case that the different groups in the country must want peace and work in that direction. Lasting peace cannot only be forced into place; it must be built in the long term. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also involved, time must be spent, trust and security between the parties must be built. Then political institutions need to be developed which have legitimacy across ethnic groups and are built into a legal system that gives all citizens and groups security and fair treatment. In some areas, this work is slow. A report from the Council of Europe Monitoring Committee on 27 April this year describes some of the challenges. We know that in the country's constitution, which was mentioned here earlier, the smaller minorities are excluded from elections in part of these political bodies. That is why the Constitution was also endorsed by the European Court of Human Rights under the European Convention on Human Rights. In this report from the Monitoring Committee, which has been visiting the area and talking to central politicians there, it is written as a sort of conclusion: « we came to the conclusion that political will to implement a constitutional reform before the elections is painting. [[...]] This is most discontinuing, if it is not the first time we are facing this situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is high time that the political stakeholders should keep their responsibilities." [[...]] [[...]] This report may seem to be that the positive process that has been going on is losing some of its momentum. It's a bad sign. It is important that the international community maintains the pressure on the country for reforms and improvements. Foreign organisations and governments can contribute with expertise and advice, but the necessary legitimacy of the political institutions must also be built from below in Bosnia. Furthermore, international support and assistance must be coordinated in such a way as to avoid the impact of support for development or reform on its purpose. The danger is that, under pressure from the international community, institutions may be set up which may have a democratic appearance, but which lack the necessary legitimacy. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the institutions are built from below, while respecting the human rights and democracy requirements laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. Lasting peace is built over time, yes, it is built over generations. It is ultimately only the inhabitants themselves who can be the driving force in that process. However, the international community should be positive drivers, set reasonable demands and provide for movement forwards, so that developments can move in the right direction. We can hope that, once in the future, the concept of balcanization is a positively charged concept, one in which different ethnic groups can build states and political institutions that contribute to peace and development in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e952	The Western Balkans is a region that has experienced a booming trend in the last 15 years. There has been an economic development that has been formidable. A majority of the population is significantly better now than it was 5, 10 and 15 years ago. Nevertheless, Bosnia and the neighbouring countries are a region facing significant challenges. The region is hard hit by the financial crisis, it's internal ethnic tensions, and it's high unemployment. I want to draw a picture, and Sverre Myrli was among others. in the context of precisely the contradictions between the tearing developments on the one hand and the ethnic conflicts on the other, and not least some of the positive elements facing Bosnia, and I am thinking in particular of both NATO membership and EU membership, which have helped to drive Bosnia and Herzegovina in the right direction. But first let's go back to the three main factors that underlie the progress of the entire Western Balkans over the last 15 years. There are few territorial unsolved conflicts left in the region. It is fundamentally positive, and it deserves the respect and support of an international community as a whole. We see that there is a significant degree of regional security cooperation — once again exclusively positive. And, as I was talking about, it has been seen that both NATO and EU membership have contributed to the country's further expansion in order to achieve democratic reforms and other reforms, including the economy. The underlying Dayton agreement does not only have more challenges, it is obvious that the agreement cannot be the bearer of Bosnia in the foreseeable future. Changes need to be put in place. Those changes must have been initiated by Bosnia itself and must have been accepted by all the parties in Bosnia. We see that, in the period from 1995 to 2006, the most severe development occurred, but in the period from 2006 to now we have seen a number of small and large backward steps. There is now a great deal of distrust between some of the leaders of the Republic of Srpska and the Federation. There is also an unemployment rate so high that it is easy to resort to ethnic issues to explain it. Nevertheless, we see Bosnia-Herzegovina facing a presidential and parliamentary elections for the autumn. I hope that it can be helpful again to contribute to a positive reform in Bosnia-Herzegovina. One needs in Bosnia a political system that is capable of seeing political divisions, not just ethnic divisions. Having political parties building bridges across ethnic boundaries will be one of the success criteria for Bosnia in the future. Finally, let me praise the Norwegian Embassy in Sarajevo for the role they play, but also the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence, especially as regards the reform of the security apparatus in Bosnia. If Bosnia is to be a well-functioning state, the security apparatus must, in particular, have legitimacy in the population and be a generally accepted security device, which depends not on ethnic dividing lines but on the sovereignty of the state of Bosnia-Herzegovina. You also see that it's 70 pst. by the population of Bosnia-Herzegovina supporting NATO membership, and in fact the figure is as high as 80 pst. in the Federation. But that means it's only 40 pst. support in the Republic of Srpska, which again demonstrates the major challenges of ethnic boundaries in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e965	I would like to thank you for a good and transparent debate on a difficult issue in Europe. I am very sure the Bosnians will appreciate that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as a representative of the Government, from this pulpit has now said that the government shares the Hague Court's designation and definition of what happened in Srebrenica, as genocide. Then we've achieved a lot – I'll say – of the goal of this interpellation. Then to the Dayton deal. It's true, as the Foreign Minister said, we have to take the time to help, but we've been doing that for 15 years now. The Dayton Agreement was a good deal when it came into being, and brought peace – yes, let's use the term ‘peace’, although many would think that there is only the absence of acts of war. Now it's been so long that the Dayton agreement is starting to become a problem. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that time can help us get a positive solution, but it can also – and there is a lot of evidence – go in the wrong direction. The resignation is very clear, and what I fear most is that the Bosnians are resigning. If they sign the Dayton agreement, negative forces will take over. Taking negative forces overhand, the powder keg lying there can go into the air again. I share Gitmark's view far on the way, but when he finally concludes that this initiative has to be taken by the Bosnians themselves, we have to start looking at: what can the Bosnians do, and what have they done, and who is it that sits with the veto and reverses? The Minister of Foreign Affairs was about this and said that the Serbs are reversing a lot of things and vetoing the important reforms that need to be done both to abolish all the small units here and there – 14 finance departments, for example. – and to bring the Constitution into line with human rights. It has to go to a pressure from the outside. Of course, the Bosnians have to do a job, they have to take their share of the responsibility. The Serbs also have to do that, but when we see that it doesn't work out the way it should have gone, we have to start looking at what we can do from the outside. Then I will take part in the representative Gitmark's compliments to the embassy, who is doing a very good job. I'm in contact with the embassy, who does a very good job, and through the embassy we enjoy respect in Bosnia.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e976	Let me first, with reference to the President-in-Office's remark instead, regret that I was not here at the beginning of this matter. I had written this into my agenda, and when the matter was pushed forward, I found myself on a Norwegian course with Somali women on the Furoset, and took the shortest way down. I was pleased that my colleague, Terje Riis-Johansen, was able to present the report, so that the government's clear message came at the interpellant's request. First of all, I would like to thank you for the good words that have come to the Sarajevo Embassy. It is very pleasant that it will come, and it will be continued and will be greatly appreciated. As regards the second point, economic activity between Norway and Bosnia-Herzegovina, on which the interpellant was involved, of course, Bosnia-Herzegovina is a major resource in Norway. As in many other contexts, we have an amazing resource of people among us who know both countries, both cultures, and we have to try to help use them as well as possible. So to the discussion around Dayton, there has been an interesting part of the debate here today. I think we're into the important elements. It is clear that Bosnians themselves must be in the driver’s seat. It's painful, but there can't be any alternative to it. At the same time, we cannot leave the Bosnians to themselves, and then, after learning these last years, I believe that there are some important support players. First of all, neighbouring countries to Bosnia-Herzegovina have been the drivers of MAP status. One of my main reasons why I have also supported this from the Norwegian side is that the neighbours are so unambiguous about the significance of it. The neighbours are important, and therefore the reconciliation process with Serbia, the contact policy with Croatia, the role of Turkey here – all this is positive. What we have to work for is to make the unit attractive, and it is about the Council of Europe, NATO, the EU – the broad transatlantic integration – making the attraction of walking along that road clear, and raising the costs for those who block for a unified country. But I remember that the problem and the challenge is that if you start messing with the solutions that underlie the state of Bosnia-Herzegovina, you can light up the powder barrel that the interpellant has described well. So there's the challenge, there's the balance. But I can confirm here again that Norway is committed to this, we have good contact with the authorities in the country, we have good local representation, and we also get good input from the environments here in Norway. And it is clear that as long as Bosnia-Herzegovina is a weak state in the Balkans, we have a challenge in the Balkans that really needs to address the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e989	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1003	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3882]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1019	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Laila Davøy. – Laila Davøy is not present, and we will continue on the list of speakers. The first speaker is Espen Granberg Johnsen. The President would also like to recall the importance of the presence of representatives when dealing with a matter in the Chamber, and in particular of the case-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1032	I'm not going to file the case on behalf of the case-speaker, but it's nice that this is a matter on which the committee agrees to a considerable extent. The well-being of Norway in general and in the health and care sectors in particular has been constantly developing and being built up and developed through good interaction and cooperation between public authorities and the voluntary sector. It has been important, it is important today, and it will also be important in the future. The Labour Party and the Government are committed to further developing cooperation with user organisations and other voluntary organisations that make a great effort for the welfare community. Many of these voluntary and non-profit organisations are located in the health and care sector, and we also find them within other parts of the welfare production in our country. Voluntary activity is primarily important in itself for those who engage. It makes sense to participate, a person experiences it important and useful to engage in matters of burning, a person becomes both wiser and better. Therefore, perhaps the most important thing with a large and strong voluntary sector is that many get involved in meaningful activity. In addition, voluntary activities ensure that we achieve important societal goals that voluntary activity creates in itself, such as: democracy and participation, but also societal goals within e.g. the health and care sector and many others. Norway is at the top of the population’s participation in voluntary activities compared to other countries. There are approx. 115,000 teams and organisations all over the country, and together, it is a good thing to calculate, about 115,000 to 120 000 annual voluntary work. In the course of the year, there are almost six out of ten participating in voluntary work. We have twice as many members in Norway as we have inhabitants. There are very many who participate, and there are also very many who work in organisations and institutions that are important contributors in welfare production. The government has taken many steps to facilitate and improve the conditions for the voluntary and non-profit sector. We did it through the volunteering that we provided in the previous period, and that we follow up year after year. We did so through the care notification, where partnership with family and community is one of the main strategies for meeting the care needs in the future, and we do so in the Cooperation Reform, where there is a particular focus on what should be roles, tasks, framework conditions and cooperation relationships between voluntary organisations and authorities. The proposers in this case are concerned with a better interaction between the public and the non-profit sector. It's obvious that we need to be busy with the voluntary, non-profit sector, and that we're going to be too in the future. This is precisely why this is an important theme of the Cooperation Reform. The challenges we face in the healthcare sector in the coming years will require extensive and good supply under the direction of the public, local and state authorities, primary health services, specialist health services, small and large-scale care services. It is a primary responsibility of public authorities to secure these services. But it is also such that in the future we will have to cooperate even more with a living local civil society, with families, with voluntary organizations. For this reason, we are concerned that non-profit and non-profit organisations contributing to welfare production should be guaranteed adequate working conditions and contractual conditions, while at the same time laying down clear requirements on quality, costs and working conditions. Some institutions now report daily on some acute problem settings they experience. We're serious about that. We are busy with a good dialogue between authorities and voluntary sector, including. in order to do this as carefully as we all depend on it, and we believe that they can override the guidelines for interaction between the public and the voluntary sector by jointly drawing up an agreement with this very purpose, as several of the voluntary organisations themselves have been engaged in. These and other proposals will certainly be considered by the Council of State in a good and appropriate way, so that we also have a good interaction between the public and the voluntary sector in the future, both the close and the slightly longer term. It will be good for the voluntary sector, for public authorities and not least for those who receive some kind of service under the direction of an organisation, an institution or whatever it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1051	Non-profit and non-profit institutions and foundations carry out more than 38 000 annual welfare works in Norway each year, with a focus on the health and care sector. Ideal welfare producers have historically pioneered a number of health and care tasks that have since become tasks for the welfare country. While the ideal actors are an integral part of the overall public service offer, they also act as an alternative and corrective to public institutions. The Progress Party has noted that strong signals have emerged that these non-profit service providers may be gone in 5 to 10 years, unless central action is now taken to prevent such developments, and that is the concern behind the proposal for a representative of the Progress Party. The background to this development is the ideological approach of the government to all non-public actors. We heard it the last time during the Question Time last Wednesday, when the municipal minister was asked why housing teams could not expand nursing homes. At that time, the Minister of State said that: ‘I believe the Norwegian people understand that the right-hand side of Norwegian politics has a different ideological view of this than the red-green government, which is occupied by the community, and that the community should have a control over such an important area as health and care’. It is this type of signal that is sent out and that, in addition to mission documents, provides the basis for decisions outside, inter alia. health establishments. The result is that the public now builds up services that have the sole aim of competing with well-functioning health and care services that have been provided by non-profit institutions or private suppliers for a number of years. We see that a very well-functioning professional and competence environment is being broken up, while the public must build up correspondingly from the bottom of it. We have an example in the matter we are going to deal with afterwards: the offer made by the sanitary women at Klöverhagen has been abandoned, the good trade union environment is disintegrating, and the victims are the many patients who get a much worse offer. The Salvation Army has now stopped operating a nursing home. Clover institutions are either closed or at risk of closure. It jokes about several of the offers offered by the Bymmission. This is a bad social economy, it's short-term thinking, and it's a deterioration in the health supply. The Progress Party will underline the need for diversity of service providers in order to ensure greater freedom of choice for users of health, care and social services, while helping to promote better quality of service. It is therefore important to establish a good interaction between the public, private and non-private sectors in order to ensure good social development. Understanding and knowledge of the framework conditions and social contributions of the various actors is, in our view, of great importance for the development of democracy, the vitalisation, renewal and quality of welfare services. The ideal sector is not a homogenous mass, just as little as private commercial ones. Some are largely based on the efforts of members and volunteers, while others can build their operations on a value basis and carry out their work to a large extent by means of permanent employees, perhaps with a small element of volunteering. Others may again appear as strong spokespersons and opinion-makers for patient groups, while offering help to these groups. Some private commercial operators operate almost on the same basis and on a non-profit basis as the ideal ones. Others are able to provide the services ordered by the government and yet operate a shop next to it. I would like us to have much more user-focused and focused on the quality and scale of the services, and to a far lesser extent on who provides the services. The assumption is of course that the services to be paid by the Community must be provided according to the quality and to the extent that the Community has ordered. We have a long tradition in Norway for public purchasing services from private health providers, both commercial and non-commercial. The party of progress is of the opinion that as a nation we would be much poorer if we didn't have this opportunity. The individual has the right to influence his everyday life in a democracy. An increased supply of different suppliers with different solutions is therefore an important contribution to breaking social exclusion. Known framework conditions and predictability are also important prerequisites for suppliers to create innovation and innovation, which we absolutely need to meet the challenges we know. And here, as I said, the private have been pioneers. In Europe, several countries have put in place such a social contract, as we can see from the overview we find at CEDAG. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have pointed to the Swedish Agreement. We feel that it is urgent to put something similar in Norway. For the Progress Party, it is important that a social contract should not be aimed at discriminating one group of actors over another, but that it should be intended to define the roles of the different service providers and contribute through it to an equivalent framework conditions for all actors independent of ownership. There is an urgent need to resolve the situation for the non-profit organisations, but private commercial operators must also be kept constantly informed about this work, so that they have the opportunity to make their input, and that we avoid competitive effects. With this I will be able to address the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1078	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1081	When you hear the story of the Norwegian welfare community, one can sometimes get the impression that it is the state that has gone ahead in building up our welfare society. It's an impression that a person is trying to create through a history description that's not right. It is the private voluntary non-profit organisations, the Church and other types of non-governmental organisations that have always been leading the way in building up new welfare services in our society. They have always – mostly – taken on board those groups on which the community has not taken good enough care of, lacked an offer, and developed new offers. They have also always been the earliest to adopt new forms of treatment and to put new technologies into practice. And then the public has come after. This means that the public has very often taken over the responsibilities of volunteers first established. There's nothing wrong with that. What is the big danger is if one develops the framework conditions that make us not to experience the same developments in the future, namely that private non-profit and commercial institutions have the opportunity to set up offers alongside the public. It's not like we've reached a stage where there's no need for others on the side of the public. For evolution has not stopped, there are still groups in society that, as a state and community, do not take sufficient care of and that need to see the need and establish an offer from private ideals and commercials. There will also be a continuing need for private ideals and commercial ones to see new treatments, which look at new technologies, and use them to be spearheads, so that the public can also learn from them. That's what this issue is about for the Right, namely, establishing good enough, safe enough, predictable enough framework conditions so that in the future, too, we will ensure that we have some on the side of the public that can ask questions, that can go ahead, and that can lift new groups that the majority and the state do not necessarily see. An example of a private commercial operator who has done this – and in a discussion we have had in Stortinget several times – is Capio Anorexia Center in Fredrikstad, which, on a commercial basis, with a commercial owner, has taken on board and established a unique offer to a patient group for which the public does not have a good enough offer. However, when we are involved in promoting a proposal that there should be a selection that works specifically with the conditions of voluntary non-profit organisations, it is among other things. due to the experience of Sweden, where one sees that they may need a type of framework contract defining their working conditions. However, Sweden’s experience is very clear that this contract should not distort competition with other private operators. That is also why we are very concerned about the proposal promoted by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, that private commercial operators should also be included in the selection, precisely to ensure that this is not an instrument for establishing a distortion of competition. When one hears the government parties talking about this matter, it may seem as if one wants to use this kind of argument, this kind of selection, to make an extra scoff at the private commercial ones. It's a development that I want to warn very strongly against. For example, in the case of part of the framework conditions that one describes that the private ideals have, for example: related to pension costs and investment costs associated with contracts with the government, such as: at the time when the county councils were responsible for the specialist health service, one will find exactly the same situation for private AS companies that also operate in the same area. This is the starting point for the Right Party to be involved in this proposal, promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1094	I might initially say that I am responding to an attempt to open a debate on how the Norwegian welfare state has been created and developed over time here in the country, the premise for it and the private part of the health sector's contribution in this way. That is not what this debate is about. What we are now discussing is how the private sector, NPISHs, should best cooperate with the public health community in order to achieve the best possible results. Now let it be fixed. In the setting there is a broad consensus in the case. The Committee strongly agrees that it is important to establish an agreement, a partnership, a cooperation – often committed and clearly formulated – and to engage in a process with non-profit organisations, in order to achieve long-term sustainability. And that's what they've been asking for. I fully agree with that, and I have great faith that such a process can contribute to it, is that we get an agreement that the non-profit organizations have asked for, wanted, and that it is right that we get. This is the broad consensus. Let me go further and say that the non-profits, the volunteers, are absolutely crucial if we in Norway are to achieve the objectives we have in our health and care policies, both in a national dimension and in local and regional terms. They mean a lot, and they're crucial for us to be able to achieve our goals. That's what it's been before, and that's what it's going to be in the future. Therefore, this is a matter I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on. What I want to add – it was also said in the introduction of the representative Espen Granberg Johnsen – is that it is not only important that we get good agreements at national level, as they have done, among other things. in Sweden, but also at regional and local level. That is where this is carried out, because it is where the voluntary sector plays a major role. We have stressed that, among other things. in the context of the handling of the Interaction Reform – the implementation of the Public Health Perspective in the Health Policy Cooperation Reform, the establishment of partnerships with sports organisations, non-governmental organisations, public health institutions, between county municipalities, between organisations and municipalities. This is an area that is important to develop, not only at national level, but also at regional and local level — the counties, health enterprises, not least in this context. It's a good thing that's been taken up, and I'm glad that there's a broad consensus about it. But it's not a matter, a debate, about the privatisation of the healthcare system, and it's not a matter of being in a way the gateway to a debate on increased privatisation. It is a matter of necessary and important cooperation between the public sector and private non-profit organisations, which means a great deal to achieve the objectives of the policy adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1107	Norway, like other Nordic countries, has strong traditions for religious, humanitarian and cooperative organisations to cooperate on welfare services in a range of areas. Non-profit organisations have several important roles in the care sector in Norway. They are important actors as providers of services on a mission and in agreement with municipalities and health professionals. Historically, they have given way to our pioneers who have later become natural tasks for the welfare community. The main challenge for the care sector in the next ten years will be to provide sufficient labour. Therefore, before caring, we need to play together with actors who can involve individuals and civil society and motivate them to take responsibility. A strong public care sector must go hand in hand with a comprehensive and active non-profit and voluntary sector in Norway. I therefore think it is an important proposal for a representative we are discussing today, and I am pleased that in this matter the Committee is, in reality, very committed to the need for action to ensure better interaction between the voluntary and the public sector. A joint committee believes that the voluntary and public sector should jointly develop an agreement with overarching principles and guidelines in order to ensure good interaction. The Committee also points to the need for the rapid setting up of a working group assessing the specific conditions of non-profit and non-profit institutions with a view to resolving the acute problems experienced by institutions. A joint committee stresses that a strong and viable voluntary sector is of great importance to society. We are certain that it is important to secure a self-sufficient and independent non-profit sector, and that this is a guarantee of democracy and poverty. Through the Government Declaration, the Government Party has an objective of further developing interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors as important contributors to welfare production. The Government Party is concerned that non-profit and non-profit organisations contributing to the production of welfare as suppliers of the public should have good contractual and working conditions, while at the same time laying down quality, cost and working conditions requirements. St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006, the Health Communication, has partnerships with family and community as one of five main strategies to address the care challenges in the future. I am pleased that the Council of State, too, in its letter, has been so clear that the government, as a follow-up to the Government Declaration, will come back to cooperation with the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1120	As rapporteur for this very important matter, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and also explain what the Committee stands together on, although unfortunately I was late and several of the contributions have already been made. In addition, I shall say a little about the Christian People's Party's view on the matter. The Committee agrees that the non-profit sector should have stable and predictable framework conditions. The Committee agrees that it is positive that the proposers want better dialogue between the voluntary sector and the authorities and that they want greater predictability for the actors in this sector. The Committee has therefore gathered on comments which state that voluntary and public sectors should jointly develop an agreement with general principles and guidelines in order to ensure good interaction between the voluntary and public sectors, a social contract. In addition, the Committee considers that there is a need for the immediate establishment of a working group assessing the specific conditions of the non-profit sector, i.e. all non-profit and non-profit actors operating institutions and activities and that this sample has to provide rapid solutions to the acute problems experienced by institutions today. An overall committee asks the government to assess this and come back to the Storting as quickly as possible. We have a strong desire for such a sample to be reduced immediately. There is an urgent need, for – as HSH has warned us, among other things – many people are seriously concerned that the ideal health and social service providers are missing over a period of five to ten years, as they said, unless central intervention is taken to prevent this. The situation is quite acute, and it is very positive that the entire committee has gathered to address this, and that everyone understands that we now need to work along two lines, both a long-term work to get a comprehensive social contract in place and a more short-term work that immediately resolves the very acute situation experienced by the ideal actors. The Committee organised a consultation which brought together key actors in this area, actors who made good representations to the Committee. Voluntaryness Norway and HSH are organisations that, among other things, For a long time, KS has worked on ideas on social contracts and selection work to ensure the framework conditions for volunteering. There are many ways to organise this work; this is done in different ways in other countries. I expect that the work done in England, Sweden, Germany and the EU, among others: can be used as a starting point and viewed as good examples. When the Christian People's Party has chosen to support the proposal of the Progress Party to ask the government to appoint a sample to prepare a proposal for a Norwegian social contract, it is because we believe such work should be done now. And we're looking forward to the Stortinget getting presented with a proposal for a Norwegian social contract, but we're not currently putting strong leadership in what it's going to look like. This will have to be done in a dialogue with the parties involved. In conclusion, however, I would like to stress from my point of view that what is most urgent right now is to set up a working group to solve the very acute issues. Unfortunately, we have too many examples of the fact that non-profit actors also have to cut down on the operation of institutions these days, because they are pushed out of the market – not because they run too poorly, but because, as they say, they are in many ways squandered on the one hand by the attitude that public authorities should take care of everything themselves, and, on the other hand, economic rationality and tender and competitive thinking spread to all areas of society. Both attitudes threaten volunteering today, as they themselves present it. Both are in the process of – I must say so strongly – killing the ideal institutions. That is why I am very pleased that today, in the form of a comment, an overall committee asks the government to look at these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1137	We know that society is facing demanding health and care challenges in the next decades. The challenges will require greater involvement of public services with family care, non-profit institutions and a living civil society. Both the development of needs and the future shortage of health and social workers indicate that tasks need to be addressed in ways other than today and in a closer interaction with the voluntary sector. I am pleased that in Norway we have a voluntary sector with a high level of competence and commitment, which has the will and ability to present new solutions to current and future welfare challenges. Voluntary organisations have several important roles in health care. Firstly, they are suppliers of services on a mission or by agreement with the municipalities. More than 60 pst. of the total daily capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts provided by private institutions or organisations contracted by regional health establishments, i.e. more than half. Secondly, organisations have often been pioneers, showing the way for what has later become natural tasks for the welfare community. This remains the most important role that voluntary organisations can play as service providers: to address areas where the welfare community is not developed, to be critically corrective to public activities, to move new paths, to engage in new work and to develop new treatment methods. At a voluntary conference in 2004 on the interaction between the various social actors, Secretary General of the Kreftforeningen, Anne Lise Ryel, said: ‘Our societies can be described by means of a picture of a poultry scarecrow! Just as the crack is held up by three legs, so our society rests on three pillars: public, private and voluntary. Everyone is independent and unique, but depending on the other two: take away a leg, rage it all." I am pleased that an overall committee is concerned that non-profit organisations, which contribute to welfare production, will have predictable contractual conditions and working conditions. At the same time, clear requirements on quality, costs and working conditions must be laid down. The government has a clear objective of further developing interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors. The Communication of Care, Mestring, Opportunities and Opinions assumes that future care challenges need to be addressed on the basis of public responsibilities involving most sectors of society, and by supporting and developing voluntary involvement by family and community, organisations and businesses. Partnerships with family and community are one of five main strategies for meeting future care challenges. The Cooperation Reform envisages that the further development of public health and care services must be combined with what should be the role, tasks, framework conditions and cooperation patterns of voluntary organisations. There are different models for developing cooperation between the public and voluntary sectors. I am committed – in line with the majority of the Committee – to the need for the public, in cooperation with the actors concerned, to find the good solutions that ensure predictability and long-term cooperation between the public and the voluntary sector. The use of social contracts between private and non-profit providers and the State can be a useful tool for further developing the interaction between the voluntary and public sectors. The practical benefits will include, inter alia: dependant on device and level of detail. Therefore, different aspects of social contracts should be examined in greater detail, including an assessment of experience from other countries. I will, together with the Minister for Culture, who is responsible for the overall policy of volunteering, follow the proposal of the majority of the committee and come back to the Stortinge appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1170	The Council of State points out in its first reply to the Committee at St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006. Then she points to St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, and then finally she says that she should come back to cooperation with the non-profit sector. Already today, we are losing important service providers, such as the United States and Japan. Clover Garden. The question is then: When will the Council of State move on to concrete action, so that we can set up such a social contract as soon as possible, so that we can solve the problems we see in the non-profit sector today? Will the Council also ensure that she will ensure that such an agreement does not distort competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1177	Of course, as far as the proposals in the committee are concerned and on which everyone agrees, I will follow them as soon as possible. It is also the case that we have a good dialogue with the voluntary sector. We are very clear in the government statement that it is very important to have good conditions for ideal and voluntary businesses. In terms of having agreements, a distinction must be made between the non-profit sector and the commercial sector. We also have opportunities for that in our procurement regulations. I think it is important that we have a good dialogue with the voluntary non-profit sector because we depend on this sector, as I also said in my post. I want to have good conditions and a good interaction. We need that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1186	It is good to hear that the Council of State will follow up what a unanimous committee says when it comes to setting up a selection to work on a social contract. But we all know that this kind of work can take some time. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that, in particular, regional health businesses have a framework for this sector when work is done, which means that there will be institutions capable of entering into these framework contracts – that they have not disappeared on the road at the same rate as they have seen in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1193	I will follow up on what the Committee agrees on: this in setting up a working group and in carrying out assessments of social contracts, but of course in order to provide a good framework for the non-profit organisations. So it's also so that this is an important part of the offer we have within, for example. the regional health establishments. I can only go to my own town, Bergen, where Haraldsplatz Hospital is a natural part of the public health service. We hadn't had a local hospital for the whole region if Haraldsplatz hadn't been there. We see the same thing with non-profit institutions operating hospitals here in Oslo. This is a sector for which the government has been very clear that we should have good framework conditions. We have also seen that some businesses are struggling. Some people don't get into the competition, but we're busy working on the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1202	I want to thank the Council of State for her clear views on what is here, and on what is to be done about social contracts. But I want to ask about this with a sample that can immediately look at the ideal institutions as per. Today it is very difficult. My question is, is the Council of State familiar with these institutions? There are many institutions that fear that they will have to wind up these days. And I want to ask her if she wants to look at the possibilities of quickly getting started and looking at these -- I'm thinking about this more fast-working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1209	Now I feel that this is a proposal for a working group that the whole committee supports, and where the whole committee is committed to facilitating good conditions for the voluntary and non-profit sector. That's what I'm concerned that we're going to follow up. So it's probably also true that in the case of some of the offers that exist, although there are many – as I said, 60 pst. of all activities in the field of drugs in the voluntary or private sector — not all reach the level of competition. It can work on quality, and it can work on other conditions. A general review of this sector and the role of this sector in the healthcare sector as a whole is important. I'll keep working on that. As I said, I'm also going to evaluate this with community contracts, and then we'll see if it's a suitable way. I will at least come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with the result of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1218	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1223	It is an important theme to be addressed in this proposal. The voluntary sector itself is glued to many communities today, and is doing an important task in terms of both integration and inclusion, and not least for public health. They are currently doing an important task in many areas of society. This government has really taken the voluntary sector seriously. It's not long since the first volunteer message, St.meld. No 39 for 2006–2007, Freedom for All, was dealt with here in Stortinget. The whole voluntary sector was involved and helped to put volunteering on the agenda, not least to get accepted so that they could also do an important job in the future. The interaction reform is also about this. How to better interact in the public sector, within municipalities, county councils and the state, and not least between public and private and non-profit institutions operating institutions. Now the Minister of Culture has announced that there will also be a sports message. Sport is the largest voluntary organisation in Norway, and it is currently doing a great job in many areas of public health work. The Minister for Health has also said that there will be a new national health and care plan, following the Interaction Reform, and where it will be natural that the voluntary sector also has a place because of the tasks they do in different areas. Private and non-profit institutions serving households are an important complement. It's not that we're going to leave the tasks of the public to them. They should be a supplement, but, as I said, maybe also a corrective to the offers we have today. We see it in the area of rehabilitation, we see it in the area of drugs, we see it in the area of child protection, etc. It is clear, as many have said, that it is important that these organisations have predictability both for operation and for investment. It is important that they have a good financial framework. It is also important that quality is required in all offers, regardless of whether it is a non-profit, a private enterprise or the public operator. Social contracts can be a way of creating an even better dialogue between public health authorities and non-profit and private organisations. I think the Council of State has said that they want to look at the possibilities, and also at what experience other countries have in this area. My experience is not that we are killing non-profit institutions and voluntary sector. In Norway, the number of such organisations is increasing. Voluntary activities in Norway have a good framework. This government has facilitated it through, for example: voluntary billion. It is important that we support voluntary work, but at the same time we must have good dialogue on how to develop and continue this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1242	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3882]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1258	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1267	The previous debate and the submissions of the government parties are in stark contrast to the issue we are about to deal with, namely the closure of the operation of the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association Institute Klöverhagen in Ringebu. This is an institution with 18 daily places divided into two departments, one for age psychiatry and one for age dentures with psychiatric additional symptoms and/or difficult behaviour. The institution has 33 employees, and treatment provision is directed mainly at psychosocial habilitation and rehabilitation and environmental therapy. It also offers outpatient services. The offer at Klöverhagen is defined as a specialist health service and is financed by an operating agreement with the Hospital Inland HF. The contractual relationship between Klöverhagen and the hospital Inland will cease in June 2010 after the hospital Inland decided in 2008 to terminate the agreement. So now the Clover Garden is about to be closed down. In the proposal of the Progress Party, supported by the Right and Christian People's Party, the government is asked to ensure that the offer and competence of the institution are maintained until there is a professionally at least as good alternative offer to this patient group. The protests against the closure of Cløverhagen and the age-psychiatric environment of competence have been very numerous, and it has been stated that it cannot be justified for such a competent and necessary offer to be made when the need is so great, and the other psychiatric offer in the regions is also being reduced. An equivalent offer appears to be far from being realised, taking into account the cuts adopted for psychiatry in the region. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, consider that, unlike the minority, it is appropriate to reduce the offer at Klöverhagen to the sickest elderly and demented. I expect that they themselves will explain their position. There is a need to develop more outpatient services in addition to having more adapted health care services. It is also in line with the Cooperation Reform, but these outpatient services must not delay a necessary institutional offer for those who need it. The switch from daily health services to outpatient and outpatient services requires new services to be built up before existing services are closed. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party consider it worrying that the Hospital Inland terminates the 24-hour offer with Klöverhagen while the 24-hour offer at DPS is not strengthened as intended. The Minister of Health and Welfare, who owns health businesses, is responsible for the development of the provision of specialist health services in line with health policy guidelines. Therefore, by virtue of its ownership role, the Council of State must prevent patients with dementia from receiving a lower level of daily treatment as a result of the planned changes in the Health Inland. Provision under the auspices of non-governmental organisations such as the Norwegian Women’s Sanitation Association’s offer at Klöverhagen has an important value as a complement and corrigendum to public health. Sanitary women and other private organisations have a long tradition of showing the way in the development of healthcare. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that such activities are taken over by the public health service, without this being well justified on the grounds of patients. This leads to a weakening of the diversity of healthcare services, which also impairs the provision of patients. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association has also made contact with the municipalities of Gudbrandsdalen, with a view to cooperating on the development of an enhanced health care facility for dementes. It appears to be a very forward-looking project, in line with the Cooperation Reform. However, the municipalities concerned have therefore refused to cooperate, referring to the lack of predictability in the organisation and financing of the interaction actions. This illustrates, in our opinion, that the government of Stoltenberg has not provided sufficient predictability in the implementation of the cooperation reform, which thus affects patients. The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association was also open to consultation, and it became clear that they had been promised by the former Minister of Health that they would receive project support for the development of the Cooperation Reform. This was a good initiative on the part of the Council of State, which unfortunately the same government Stoltenberg has not followed up. I am addressing the proposals that have been put forward in the vote, from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1295	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1298	NKS Klöverhagen, which this proposal for a representative deals with, has for many years, as the rapporteur also said, had a good and important cooperation with Health South-East to offer an offer to the elderly with dementia and mental problems. Now the health business assesses the use of resources for this group in other ways, and has signalled the gradual slowdown of cooperation with Klöverhagen. In this context, the Hospital Inland informs the following: ‘The Hospital Inland HF has expanded DPS in all regions with both daily services, outpatient services and outpatient clinics, and opened the DPS Hamar daily service in 2010. However, the health company is still in a transition phase and is working on how fast and how much DPS should be taken over by hospital functions. This has led to some changes in the timetable for the development of some functions on some of the DPSs.’» Then Health South-East says the following about its decision regarding the Klöverhagen: ‘No patients will be printed without an adequate offer in the community health service, or, alternatively, given further treatment at the Age Psychiatric Department of the Hospital Inland. The department has units located at SI Reinsvoll and SI Sanderud.’ On this basis, I and the government parties assume that the changes that are now being made to the scheme outlined by Health South-East will give older people with mental disorders and dementias at least as good and adapted health and care services as before, and that no one will lose the offer they have without a real alternative. It is also underlined – and it is understandable and natural – that a special health service is needed for this group, which can work out in relation to hospitals, nursing homes and home services, among others. through outpatient teams to ensure that patients with severe dementia can receive treatment in their familiar environment. It is also true that many of these patients need treatment for somatic diseases. Such recognition must necessarily mean that changes can occur, including in the case of private, non-profit actors. Non-profit organisations are important and competent partners for public health, and they will also play a positive role in the future organisation of healthcare, in line with the intentions of the interaction message and the issue on which we just had a debate. For example, I would like to point out a separate research project that has now started up in the inland region under the direction of the Alder Psychiatric Research Centre. The project aims to enhance the competence of the community health service and to offer hospitals in Lillehammer/Gudbrandsdalen, as well as the development of educational material for higher education institutions. This project uses Klöverhagen competence. This is a good example of a fruitful interaction between public and non-profit actors. Through the Action Plan for Mental Health and Demenplan 2015, the instruments have been specifically designed to strengthen the provision of services in municipalities, supported by both district psychiatric centres and the specialist health service in other areas. The interaction message underlines in particular the need for more coordinated health and care services and for better interaction within and between levels. Regional health businesses are responsible for assessing the division of tasks and resources between district psychiatric centres and the age-psychiatric specialist departments and follow-up with their own regional plans which, I assume, include cooperation with non-profit actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1317	The Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association reports that the Klöverhagen at Ringebu is closed. This can be a sad day – sad, if we can't get a decision to continue operating at Klöverhagen, and sad, if we now see users being written out by the institution, without we're sure they get an adequate offer. It is sad if a good professional environment is broken up and important competences are spread for all winners. I'm not the least in doubt that this is enough of the government's rhetoric against private institutions. Although the government parties in this case and in their party writing put in a good word for institutions run by the voluntary sector, their main message is that the public almost has a monopoly on the provision of good quality services, and that other suppliers may be somewhat suspicious profitors who are only looking for a suction tube into the Community box. Cleaver garden, with its 18 daily places, has for a number of years been an important provider of services to psychiatric patients and to dementia with additional symptoms, some of which have had a difficult and challenging behavior. Now that the Inland Hospital has terminated the agreement with Klöverhagen, it is justified that the offer to users should be addressed more fully by one of the district psychiatric centres being built up. At the same time, it is noted that Uppland currently has more daily places than Hedmark and that therefore the number of daily places has to be reduced. This is a reason that limps. The prerequisite for reducing the number of daily places must be that patients' needs are met, it cannot be an approximation in the direction that everyone should have the same bad. Doctors in both Hedmark and Uppland are struggling today to have patients admitted. An outpatient offer is hardly a good and real alternative. The clown garden has built up a special competence in psychiatry and dementia, and we know that the patient group that needs an offer of this kind will be strongly increasing in the years to come. Today, these patients meet to a large extent by unskilled and professional personnel without the need for additional education. So we're going to put down a well-functioning offer that we need today, and that we're going to need even more in the future. And why should it be laid down? Yes, to build up a new offer under public law. This doesn't make sense. The idea of patients, the idea of employees and the idea of the socio-economic is totally absent. The Klöverhagen has come to the conclusion that they could take advantage of the competence they have, and the institution's fine location, to provide an offer to the municipalities in the region. In the spirit of the interaction reform, an offer of an intercommunal shielded unit was made. very ill dents, which may have a debilitating behaviour. The municipalities are afraid to commit themselves to this because the financing of the cooperation reform is not clear. Former Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen started the idea and promised to launch a pilot project worth between 3 and 5 million. kr. The management at Klöverhagen went on with the project plans – and then the Council of State came. When the management at Klöverhagen contacts the department, asks for project funds and refers to the promise from the government council, they are said to get in response from the department that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said so much strange. If this is the way the department under this political leadership meets serious service providers, I must say I am being powerfully irritated and upset. Here we had a unique opportunity to take advantage of the institution and the professional competence for what it really is a screaming need. We had a round in the committee on whether we were going to use the term "untaken dents" in the vote, and we were going to write "very ill dents". But I choose to call a spade a spade. We know that the University of Oslo has had its own study of outrageous dentures and employees who are afraid of violence in the workplace. The head of the nurses' union in Oslo stated that ‘it is very serious that employees working with dents are afraid to go to work and for exigent dents’. She also said that this had to be done. Knutepunkt Sørlanden is seven municipalities that cooperate. They have set up a working group on cooperation on outstanding issues, and they will prepare proposals for a common competence programme for staff working with this user group. We know that the Health Authority has directed its supervision against how municipalities ensure that the demented/aggressive dentures are not subject to any rights restrictions. We know that many institutions with demented dentures are struggling with a high level of sick leave due to injuries to their staff. It is also reported that there are several non-conformities where co-patients are injured. The last thing we heard now was that a dement 81-year-old is meant to have caused the death of a 76-year-old in Harstad. This problem needs to be taken seriously. The Klöverhagen has built up competence to deal with these patients, and if the Klöverhagen environment were to live, it would certainly also have an important transfer of competence to the municipalities in the region – in line with the Cooperation Reform. But if it is to become a reality, the Storting must today adopt the opposition's proposal. Then we also ensure that patients get an adequate offer, and it is known as too late to cheat when the nose is gone. So I noticed that Tove Karoline Knutsen said that good interaction between public and non-profit organisations is important. The only interaction I have noticed in this case is that the employees have been offered a job search course on Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1345	Unfortunately, this case illustrates with all clarity what the previous case was about, namely the lack of predictable and stable framework conditions for non-profit actors operating institutions – many have been operating for many decades – and the need to remedy this. What also worries me deeply about this case and in many cases that are currently appearing, is the great irrationality in putting down good health services before new offers are fully built up. This has happened several times, and I think this is awfully sad to see. Patients and users suffer because of this policy. We are constantly seeing professional environments disintegrating, and skills being lost. Employees lose their jobs, and society spends a lot of extra money. This is quite outrageous, as I see it. It is also worrying that the Hospital Innland will close the 24-hour offer at Klöverhagen while the daily offer at the District Psychiatric Centre is not strengthened as intended – as I have understood it. The Minister of Health and Welfare, who owns health businesses, is responsible for the development of the provision of specialist health services in line with health policy leaders, and not least in line with the needs of patients. I believe that the Council of State in this matter must prevent patients with dementia from getting a worse offer of diurnal treatment as a result of the planned changes in the Health Inland. I noticed that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen said that no one should be printed without having received an alternative and better offer. I don't know if all the patients who were there have received a better offer or an alternative as well. Some of the background that I want to say a few words about another institution, is just that this has happened several times before. Let me take Solbu as an example, also a clover institution, which operated here in Oslo, and which was a good institution for young people with mental disorders. It was terminated. When the former health minister of the Stoltenberg government said that all of these clients, the patients, would get an equally good and similar offer before the institution was closed down. That was assured to the Council of State. What happened in that institution when it was wound up was that two or three of these young people did not receive an alternative offer. They traveled home to old parents, and I don't know how they were doing. I have tried to find out for myself what happened to these clients, and what offer they received. The problem is that when you lay down an institution, you split the entire trade union environment. Then the employees have spread for everyone winning in a short time, and the patients no longer have contact with each other. The organisation that run this institution also does not know what is happening to the clients, because the offer is gone. I sincerely hope that this does not happen to the clients who have been to Klöverhagen, that they do not get an equally good offer. I hope that the Council of State will be able to assure you that every one of those who were there has received a similar or better offer. Of course, I'm sorry, because the competence environment was very good, and there has been no mention here that this has been a bad offer or that the quality has been different from that of the public. In many cases, we see that having a non-profit-making non-profit institution sometimes actually manages to make even better offers than what we sometimes see in public. I hope the Council of State can assure us today that all the clients have received a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1371	Let me state immediately that the elderly with mental illness should be guaranteed access to investigation and treatment in mental health protection when they need it. The overall objective of the Mental Health Progression Plan is to facilitate the mastery of the most common life of people with mental illness in their own home and in the community. Of course, this also applies to the elderly with mental disorders. Key elements are user involvement and the establishment of a local-based service with a focus on municipal action and a decentralised specialist healthcare service. The Government has continued this value basis according to the escalation plan, as set out in: the State budget for 2009-2010. The Health Directorate’s counsellor for District Psychiatric Centres suggests that centres should have competence in the investigation and treatment of most psychiatric conditions in the elderly. 79 district psychiatric centres are now established in Norway. Some are still under construction and the centres need to be further strengthened. I have given a clear indication of this in the mission document to regional health companies for both 2009 and 2010. Regional health establishments shall implement a switch from institutional treatment to a more outlying and outpatient offer. The need to upgrade the district psychiatric centres professionally and manpowerly is called for to meet the general needs of mental health care. I have also called for resources to be adapted to the needs of the population and to be dimensioned between district psychiatric centres and the hospital wards, in line with the leaders. The government is committed to strengthening the provision of elderly people with mental disorders and dementia. The instruments in the Roadmap for Mental Health and Demenplan 2015 are designed to strengthen the provision of services in municipalities. District Psychiatric Centres and other specialised health services shall support the provision of municipal services. Through the Interaction Reform, we will further facilitate better coordinated services, which are particularly important for older people with a complex disease picture. National strategy for specialist health services for the elderly 2008–2012 provides recommendations on how to provide healthcare to care for the needs of sick elderly. Psychiatric health is part of this strategy. The regional health enterprises follow up the strategy. They have, or are in the process of, drawing up regional plans with concrete measures for implementation. Some plans include the establishment of age psychiatry with ear-marked beds and outpatient clinics with outpatient services where this is not established, as in Health South-East RHF. I have also commissioned the Health Directorate to make recommendations on how to develop the offer of specialist health services in the field of mental health for the elderly. I assume that Health South-East takes care of its responsibilities for this patient group and assesses how the overall resources in the region can best be used. Most people with dementia live in municipal hospitals, nursing homes or in private homes with the help of municipal home services. It is therefore necessary to establish a specialist health service that works outwards and reaches all those who need such assistance. This is in line with the government's steering signal, that the conversion of mental health protection is still necessary. The rotation shall take place from the main emphasis on daily treatment to greater emphasis on outpatient and outpatient services. I would like to stress that NPISHs represent a significant resource and are important partners in public health care. I have faith that the municipalities and specialist health services in the region will build on the experience of the Klöverhagen business. Health South-East has assured that no patients will be discharged from the NKS Klöverhagen without an adequate offer in the municipal health service, or that they will receive further treatment at the age psychiatric ward of the Hospital Inland HF. I expect Health South-East to develop a qualitatively good supply for the elderly with mental disorders, in line with the objective of the National Strategy for Special Health Services for the Elderly and the Ministry’s leadership in the mission documents of regional health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1397	In a familiar style, you might say, the Council of State in its speech says that she has largely confidence in her own bureaucracy and in red-green policy. That's the answer we get to almost everything. She also writes in her letter to the Committee that Health South-East has assured her that ‘no patients will be printed out without an adequate offer’, etc. It was also referred to by another representative. At the same time, we know, among others: from the media, that medical officer Rasmus Englund has reacted to the fact that the Hospital Inland is still rejecting psychiatric patients whom he believes need urgent help. It stands in stark contrast to this trust and insurance. Now he has even complained to the Hospital Inland for the Health Authority. My question will then be: Does the Minister have similar confidence in this medical doctor – and in all the patients who do not receive an adequate offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1406	When it comes to making a change in the offer to the psychiatric patients that this is about, the elderly who are at the Klöverhagen – that is the matter I am dealing with – it is important that the offer is designed to care for these patients. One of the reasons why you've made the change is that these patients may be missing a lot of other things. Better integration is sought for both those in need of hospitalisation, district psychiatric centres and municipal services. All three of these three have to interact in a good way. It's a particularly important group to attend to. I have a lot of understanding that you want to have it as it always has been, but at the same time, when you do this conversion, it's to make it better for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1414	I expect the Council of State to agree that developing and extending the offer to elderly psychiatric patients and to dementia is one of the major challenges facing the Norwegian healthcare system in the years to come. I also believe that the Health Council agrees with me that Klöverhagen is a good, professional offer. I also hope that the Health Council agrees with me that Klöverhagen as a decentralised specialist offer corresponds to the leaders of the Cooperation Reform. I also expect the Council of State to agree with me that the Klöverhagen fits in as a hand in gloves in view of the input of the Council of State into the previous debate on the role of volunteers in health care. My question is, can the Council of State in a popular way explain why she accepts that this offer is being put down, so that we who listen to the debate understand it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1421	I very much agree with the representative, Höie, that developing and extending the offer to those who have dementia is very important. It's a big challenge for us politically. It will be a major challenge in the future when we see that there are more elderly people with many types of diseases, including dementia. A change in the organisation of the supply of patients with mental health challenges has been chosen. This applies to younger people and to older people. Now we are busy with a group of older people who have been to Klöverhagen. Voluntary organisations do a very important job, but at the same time they have chosen a change in the whole structure of the offer in connection with the Hospital Inland and the municipalities of this region. That work must be followed up. Patients are not supposed to get a worse offer. It's hospitalizations, it's district psychiatric centers, and it's municipal services. These have to play together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1428	I noticed that the Council of State in its article was talking about age psychiatric services in general, and that district psychiatric centres are to be upgraded. They will facilitate better services and regional health businesses are developing plans. The Health Directorate is going to come up with plans, i.e. into the future. Based on that, I am even more concerned when the Klöverhagen in these days ends its offer. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State know with certainty that every patient who is at the Clöverhagen today, or who may already have been outsourced, has or will have an equally good or better offer? Can we be sure that not the same thing happened with Solbu?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1435	The representative of Davøy is very well acquainted with the 79 district psychiatric centers that are being built around the country, and also with the transformation that has been taking place – the work on the Roadblock of Mental Health, which has been important, and which has been going on for many years, including under other governments. Also in the opinion of the Committee, it is referred from the letter from Health South-East about the patients at Klöverhagen. I have to say that I expect Health South-East to follow up on this. I heard what the representative Davøy said about another matter. It is extremely serious, but I expect this to be followed up, because there are actually several different offers that can be adequate, both hospital services, municipal services and services at district psychiatric centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1442	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1447	NKS Klöverhagen in Ringebu was an institution with long experience and enormous competence in age psychiatry and age sentence with additional symptoms. This was the experience and competence that the whole of Norway needs, and that people with dementia absolutely need. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is therefore tragic that institutions such as Klöverhagen now have to be closed down. Health South-East RHF writes in a letter to the Ministry of Health and Welfare: ‘The Hospital Inland HF has expanded DPS in all regions with both daily services, outpatient services and outpatient clinics, and opened the DPS Hamar daily service in 2010. However, the health company is still in a transition phase and is working on how fast and how much DPS should be taken over by hospital functions. This has led to some changes in the timetable for the development of some functions on some of the DPSs.’» The problem here is that until now it is not a good offer that can replace Klöverhagen. With the pace and organisation we see in today’s healthcare system, it will take a long time before a good, alternative offer is in place – if at all it comes into place. For me, the point in this case, which in some other health issues, is to save money, not to give the public the best possible offer. It is well illustrated in Oppland Arbeiderblad on 18 February of this year, where the division director for mental health protection states that 21 million will be cut. kr in the operating budget for the division. This means that new daily places on DPS are not used. This indicates poor and slightly forward-looking planning. It is also regrettable that former councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promised Klöverhagen project funds, thus giving false hopes to both employees and users of Klöverhagen. Finally, the Klöverhagen is now closed. Some employees have received vicariates elsewhere, but the users have not received an alternative, good offer. Most of them are unsolicited despite promises of the opposite. It's a shame. I am not going to say, as yesterday, that someone has gone on the move, because the President said it was not a parliamentary expression. But it's quite clear that there's someone here who hasn't done his job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1470	I think the President agrees that this is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1473	I have noticed that both the representative Knutsen and the Council of State said in their posts that they require and assume that the health company will cooperate with Klöverhagen to use the competence there. But they've laid down. How, then, should it be possible to cooperate on that competence? I could imagine hearing how they've thought of that cooperation. Clover garden is an example of a voluntary offer that should be strengthened, not abandoned. It gives sick elderly people a good health offer outside the hospital, closer to where they live. We also heard previous speakers say that there is not a good enough offer for those who are now losing the offer at Klöverhagen. The government talks a lot about strengthening the health service outside the hospital, but it does the very opposite when the Klöverhagen is now laid down. It is alarming that promises made by the previous Council of State are not followed up. The management at Klöverhagen had a meeting with the then state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on 24 September 2009 and during this meeting it was signaled that the department would set up a pilot project in which one could gain important experience and where the institution would be helped over the knee compared to the vacuum that is now ahead of the Cooperation Reform. The surrounding municipalities had not been able to finance the purchase of premises at Klöverhagen. They sent a project application to the Health Directorate, where they outlined an offer to demente throughout the Godbrand Valley region and also a learning and mastering centre. This could be an intermunicipal offer in collaboration with the District Medical Centre of Ottawa. But since there is no response to that application, the management at Klöverhagen has therefore had to complete their offer. I could imagine hearing what the Council of State thinks, what she thinks, or what she thinks about that breach of promise by the government. I am very sorry that the government parties will not help to maintain and further develop the good offer to the weakest and most vulnerable of all the elderly – the demented. They vote down the proposals that are available, and then they break up a very good and competent professional environment, and this will lead to a worse offer for these patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1486	The Norwegian Women's Sanity Association has a very long history and tradition throughout our country, and they are doing a very important job in many areas today. They'll do that for years to come. There has been a concerted agreement between the opposition and the position on the escalation plan in mental health, where we will focus on developing district psychiatric centres to provide good outpatient services and, in particular, good daily treatment services — not only that, but also outpatient services in our municipalities. The government has also in its governance documents, through the Council of State, told health businesses that we should have a greater growth in mental health than we should have in somatic health, and it confirms that this government and this majority of population want to continue that effort in the future as well. Psychiatric health services are undergoing strong change, and it is not a conversion that should contribute to poorer quality but to a better quality, where the professional community agrees to be involved in strengthening this. When the NKS Klöverhagen is then terminated, patients are not printed out for nothing. Patients are printed out for alternative offers. If we think back to the HVPU reform or the PU reform in 1991, when we closed a number of central institutions, where would users be printed? Yes, they were published in municipal health services – to municipalities where both family and relatives lived and where they could get closer to their relatives. Nobody wants to turn the clock back and say that it is a worse offer than it was before 1991. This is about how we will adapt our development in the future. If we think about the time before the corporate reform came in 2002, when the county councils were responsible for both somatic, drug care and mental health, there were many psychiatric institutions around, but which were transferred from the county to the municipalities due to changes in tasks and that they too should be in their neighbourhood. The interaction reform is also about this. We're centralizing what we need, but then we've also decentralized what we're going to do. It is important that the competences that are now here be maintained. I think of my own municipality, Orkdal. The Orkdal Sanity Association with 17 local units ran Orkdal hospitals, but they don't do it today. They have sold the hospital to Health Mid-Norway and today they have a capital base of over 100 million. kr, which they use for many good preventive health measures, not least in women’s health, which is one of the most important areas of NKS’ activity both nationally and internationally. Perhaps in this way we can release both resources and competences for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1499	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is rather embarrassing – and rightly so for the government – that not previously perfectly clear promises made in the hearing in the committee are followed up by the department. I have to say that I react enormously both to Jorodd Asphjell's posts and perhaps also partly to what the Council of State said. Both call for so many district psychiatric centers to be established with the escalation plan now. Does the Council of State and Jorodd Asphjell think that the Road Safety Plan is or was intended to ensure that the ideal institutions were abolished? It sounds amazing to me when you use this argument. In fact, the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, in cooperation with the Health West, operates a district psychiatric center on the Jären in a formidablely good way. They could actually have done that in this area even if you wanted to. It has never been the intention of the escalation plan that the public should take over the operations of non-profit institutions and private institutions. There's nothing about it – as I remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1511	I fully agree with the representative, Laila Davøy, that it not only helps to build some district psychiatric centers, you also have to have their contents. When you choose to add the entire offer to this group, i.e. young people and older people in mental health, you have to do it in a good way and meet the needs that are there. So it's just as full that these offers are organised through health businesses, by health businesses. The fact that age psychiatric patients often have a combination of somatic and psychiatric morbidity makes it possible to choose a different organisation, among other things. At the Hospital Inland and in the municipalities there – and it is established – an offer is to be made, and I maintain that I assume that no one is without an offer that is as good as what has been. Then I just want to answer the representative, Sjøli, with the means of interaction. In the context of the national budget, there were 73 million. kr in total in means of interaction that local authorities could apply for. These applications are for treatment in the Health Directorate. As far as I know, there is an application from municipalities in this area, but it has not yet been finalised, and therefore I may have to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1520	I feel the need to take the word again in the matter, because I feel that in this case as in many other cases unfortunately there is a double communication from the red-green side. There are many celebrations about how much good work is done, both voluntarily and not least professionally by the voluntary and non-profit organisations. In the previous case too, we heard good words about it. But every time we get to an institution that can show good results, where the users are satisfied, where the municipality is satisfied, where the professional authorities are satisfied, everything has to be thrown on the boat because you're going to build something new in public. It's not like the Council of State tried to give the impression here before, that some of us are concerned about preserving everything that has been. But some of us are actually also concerned with preserving what is good, and that works, at least keep it until there's come a new and good offer. That's the whole point of the opposition proposal here. We have not said that the Klöverhagen will last forever. We've said that at least it's going to last until there's a good and adequate alternative offer. We don't feel that it exists, and there have been several of us in there. I also find it embarrassing to see what we heard in the hearing, that when the Klöverhagen approached the department, they were told that this Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said so much strangely. That is in the opposition's opinion, but when he once said something wise, it's a little ambiguity that that's exactly what the department thinks is strange. I experience not least the last post, but also the one that the Council of State has written in the matter, that Health South-East has assured that no patients “will be printed out without an adequate offer in the municipal health service” or “alternatively given further treatment at the Age Psychiatric Department of the Hospital Inland” as a guarantee here today, and we will not settle down until we have assured ourselves that all those who were at the Klöverhagen have received this offer. I want to hang on to what also the representative Höie said from this pulpit, that I have rarely seen an institution that fits better into the thinking of the cooperation reform. This is an internal path and should be a glittering example of how we could get the public and the ideal to interact. Not least, at the end of the day: an environment of competence breaks down here, and when the representative from the Workers' Party says that it is important to take care of this environment of competence, I will only be allowed to draw attention to the fact that those who have not received any other work, and that is most of them, have already received letters from Nav offering jobseekers' courses. You don't take care of your skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1535	It makes the impression when you meet a professional community that fights to survive. You've met that on the Klöverhagen for a long time. It makes the impression that an environment that is otherwise engaged in concentrating on doing a good professional job, strengthening its own skills and operating a good business, being pressured between uncertainties in the public administration system, pressured between municipalities that do not fully figure out what to do, pressured between new and old administrative systems by the state and, in particular, pressured by a contracting entity that obviously has its own thoughts of building up a similar offer. I believe that this institution serves as a good example of how we should not deal with health developments, and it serves as an example of what challenges we face between a new and an old system. The input to the Interaction Reform must also be about how to get the environments of competence and the best skills to enter into a new context and structure. In this case, we see municipalities that have been insecure because they have had problems understanding the content of the interaction reform. It is also a large geographical area where interaction, i.e. cooperation on these issues, has been little established in advance. I noticed that the Council of State said that no one is without an offer. No, it could be on paper. But we know that in this case, the alternative offer is, in so far as it exists – I think there is every reason to question whether the offer exists – partly at Hamar, and we also know that there is a request for potential capacity at Gjøvik. So from Klöverhagen we're talking about an extra couple of hours of driving, compared to a distance that was initially quite long, if we look at the municipalities in this area. Yes, there may be an offer, but the offer is at least worse from a practical point of view. It is terribly sad that it now looks like an important environment of competence in a region that needs the competence of patients, but also professionally, crumbling because the public network or public system around it is not doing it for a transitional period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1544	It seems that the opposition is trying to give the impression that government parties are running a crusade against private institutions and against non-profit institutions operating institutions. In the health sector, however, there is today a massive shift in many areas — child protection, drug addiction, psychiatry and somatics. The capital process is a bit. If you work in the private sector, in the public sector, in the non-profit sector, then all of you are in a restructuring process for the quality and quantity of the offers. There will then be a need to make some changes from time to time in different areas. But the important thing here is always to put the patient and the user in the center. That is what we need to focus on, and I am sure that both Health South-East and Hospital Inland will ensure that these patients receive an adequate offer. When you talk about building up skills, it's not always that if you split your skills, you build down. If you divide your skills and competences in several areas, you may have to increase the competence of institutions in those areas by allowing employees to share their competences with other employees. It's also important, because then there are more people who want to put this into practice. I think it's important that we now focus on it, and as I heard from the Council of State, said, if there is now also an application for means of interaction, and if there are opportunities to put this extra on the agenda within those areas, it would be important. But as I said, NKS is doing an important job today in many areas, and I think they will do it in the future as well. But we have to look at what is now being built up through the mental health plan, so that we get a better offer in place. Not thus saying that the offer that has been made was bad, but it is time to go new ways where you use your resources and your skills in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1551	I agree, so agree with the previous speeches that we have a health care system consisting of private and public. But if that's what the government parties claim, if you want to take care of the private organizations in this area as well, then it's quite striking that every single time we meet that issue, it's about a private enterprise that's being downgraded, and a public enterprise that's being upgraded. Of course, we can wonder whether this is a kind of natural law, or whether it is a political agenda. We see it in the field of child protection, we see it in the field of care, and we see it in this case in the field of age psychiatry. It was also said that you could split skills here to increase it. Well, that's very possible, but I really have to ask: how far away from the world of reality is it going to be? What kind of environments are there that these people at Klöverhagen were supposed to get involved in, which would make them more competent? How many specialised jobs are there – so we are now talking about a specialised offer within the healthcare system – how many relevant alternative jobs are there in the Gudbrand valley for that type of competence, at other institutions, which should thus help to increase it? I would like to acknowledge that I am exemplified as to what this is all about. The alternative of these would be to move, and it would be to move far. On the other hand, what was the starting point for maintaining this activity was to connect it to a common holding at the District Medical Centre of Ottawa, which is a good growth activity. It might have been a thought to bring it into this context, where you'd have improved your skills, but it's just about keeping this together, because it's a business that actually maintains a certain number of jobs, which, overall, also constitutes an environment of competence. I think, unfortunately, that we have to note that there is no actual willingness to do the special measures necessary for small and competent private enterprises to find a place in the future health care structure. They will survive as best they can, those who manage, and they will certainly be welcomed in and for themselves, but there does not seem to be any express willingness to do the special steps necessary to ensure the institutions that actually need a special helping hand to get over the knucklehead that the implementation of the cooperation reform represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1560	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1563	Unlike the previous speakers, I have to admit that I do not know the institutional structure of the Inland well enough, but I have to say that for five years in the Health and Care Committee, I have visited a lot of municipalities in Norway. I've visited a lot of institutions, both hospitals, district psychiatric centers, local medical centers, but not least I've visited a lot of hospitals in Norway. There are many hospitals that have demented patients in the departments, and I have also seen that many of these municipalities have asked for skills and labour in these areas. I would like to believe that even in Finland there may be a health home in both the municipalities concerned and in neighbouring municipalities, where the need for labour, and not least the competence of these employees, can be recovered in a good way, and that that competence can also be transferred to other employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1568	After listening to the debate, I have no difficulty at all in understanding the arguments that the opposition makes on the issue of maintaining the institution that we are now discussing, Klöverhagen, and the great importance it has for the special treatment offered to dementes, namely psychiatry/care. This debate raises a different aspect of the whole governance of the health sector in many ways. Ten years ago, the Stortinget – under the then Jagland government – decided that the State should take over the specialist health service. We should get regional health companies. Specialist health services were to be managed by regional health establishments. Enterprises were given the task of implementing the overall policy adopted by the Stortinget. This was a reform which, in particular, the Progress Party helped to implement, supported by the Right. What Health South-East has done here is to live up to the intentions of the law that these parties participated in implementing. Then you get a debate in the Storting about individual decisions taken in health businesses, this time about Klöverhagen. The question arises as to whether these parties believe that in the future we should have this kind of decision taken by the Storting – whether the many individual decisions taken by health businesses, which affect individual institutions of this type, will be taken by the Stortinget in the future. There is then an interesting debate, and SV has been critical of this way of managing. Then I look forward to an interesting debate on a new organisation of the specialist healthcare service – a new decision-making structure in the specialist healthcare service where all kinds of decisions of this nature are to be addressed to the Stortinget. Then, of course, we also have to have a case investigation and a preparation of the matters that enable Stortinget to see the whole. We don't have that in this case right now. So that's the challenge to the opposition, after listening to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1579	As has been said earlier in this debate, there is a lot of good work in non-governmental organisations, and there is a lot of good professional work in the health sector. It's a shame I can't say the same about the government. The opposition has been accused of saying that government parties are operating a crusade against private institutions. That's what the Workers' Party said. It's definitely not that we're trying to create that impression, but the Workers' Party itself might be trying to create that impression. What this is about is saving money. It's about saving money, and it's not like the government says, they're trying to put the patient in the center. For trying to put the patient in the center, the institutions are not told to cut $21 million. kr and leave to open new, alternative places. It's not putting the patient in the center. When it comes to increasing competence: Those who have been dismissed at the Klöverhagen have enormous competence. But that competence is not Nav that needs to be. It is actually the institutions around that need. But the problem is that the municipalities can't actually afford to employ this competence. This is special competence, acute competence, which the municipalities cannot afford to employ. Then I was a little impressed by the representative Asphjell. He does not know well enough the structure of health businesses in the interior. Even here he defends the closure of the Klöverhagen and the removal of a large community of competences. It says respect. The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen was concerned that Stortinget should not deal with individual decisions. This is not a single decision. This is a principle: if we're going to make changes to Health Norway, we're going to make changes to make it better. Then we're not going to lay down institutions until we have a good alternative offer to transfer users to. Then it's not a single decision that we're discussing, it's a principle of how we're going to develop Health Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1592	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1595	It was for the representative Asphjell: Of course it is an old-age home in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen. The only question is: should the individual municipality be referred to building up an offer for a highly specialised group, which is very resource-intensive? The individual municipality will therefore have to weigh the costs of the solution, where clients are spread around in an area, against the centralised offer The Hospital Inland builds up two hours of driving further south. It says itself what's going to be the solution to that. In reality, there is no reason to believe that in the future you will solve this locally. To the issue of individual decisions in Stortinget: No, we are not going to take that, but in the transition from one system to another one is actually responsible for ensuring how competence is maintained. As you can see, this also applies to a general issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1603	The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen wondered if we should take all the individual matters into consideration in Stortinget, because that was a consequence of the governance model that had been taken up and that he had been against. No, we're not going to take all the individual matters for treatment in Stortinget. But we're going to take the individual issues into consideration in the Stortinget that exemplify the consequences of red-green policy. It is the red-green government that instructed health companies in their first management document that they should use their own capacity only before buying from private or others. It was expressed in the election campaign conducted in 2005 against the so-called privatisation. That's why we've been given increasing health cows, and that's why we're given examples of institutions that are being built up. For the reason that this government manages tendering processes, it has the basis of reducing the number of institutions providing services, because it has written to health care companies that they should use their own capacity first, regardless of whether their own capacity means hours of driving for relatives, which are usually old ladies with older men located at an institution in one of our most pig-grown districts in South Norway. It is relatively far from Skåk to Gjøvik. Even as a mountain, I have gradually discovered that there are long distances within this country. But that in practice means that some of these older men who are in the institution because they have become demented are not going to be visited by their wife, because it is too far to travel. That is the human aspect of this. The second aspect of this is that we were actually promised this by the previous Minister of Health. I've been to the Klöverhagen. I have spoken to the rapporteur of the Labour Party in the municipality, who is furious at the consideration of this matter by the Labour Party and the Government. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said it was the best interaction project he had ever seen. Now I have to admit that he has said it in many places, so I knew in a way that there was something he used to say everywhere he was. But he said this in the election campaign, and he was absolutely sure that money would be found for this on the state budget. But then it was decided to create a government budget where the money was transferred to interaction from political governance to just a bureaucratic treatment in the directorate. This is the consequence of the policy of the red-green parties. This you must take over you! This has nothing to do with the governance principles. It has to do with that being the case when you exercise allergy to private solutions, and when you promise and do not keep – to speak well – what you travel around in an election campaign and say.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1612	The representative of Laila Bavøy has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1615	It was the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen who made me take the floor in the end here, as he moves on to start discussing the corporate reform, as if that were the cause of what is happening. It was never said in the context of corporate reform that the non-profit sector was to be phased out, that it was necessary to liquidate ideal, good institutions, or that one should be given full freedom to make all decisions. We still have a department, and we have a health minister who has a political responsibility and who is supposed to ensure that patients do not get a worse offer. I get a little scared when I hear from those who may have a better knowledge of this, that individual patients who have been to Klöverhagen have actually received a worse offer. I must say that in Stortinget we are also elected as ombudsmen, and that we have a general responsibility to ensure that patients do not receive a worse offer. At least we have to call out a warning. And it's a highly relevant debate we're holding here today in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1622	In my speech, I pointed out the inconsistency of the opposition – and that was the part of the opposition that was driving and involved in implementing the corporate reform, that is, the reform that makes it the health businesses that are going to make these kinds of decisions. And once they've made those decisions, they take these things into the main hall and suggest that they be converted. I understand that the opposition needs to pursue policies that way. SV was the opponent of this. We thought that this kind of decision was to be taken by political authority, but it was not adopted. That's why it's being practiced the way it's done now, because, among other things, it's going to be done. The progress party wanted it that time. Then I have not received an answer to the questions. The comment by the representative Solberg was not an answer as to whether to deal with this type of individual matter each time to mark the dissatisfaction with red-green policy. Nor is it the case that these health businesses are now liquidating the private sector in the health sector. It definitely doesn't. It is in connection with the conversions that this has happened. There is an inconsistency, a fundamental inconsistency, in the way the Progress Party and the Right, in particular, are running politics here, when we get individual things on the table in the Storting and it is suggested that decisions taken by health companies, which have been agreed in the past, should be the current way of governing the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1633	The representative, Sonja Irene Sjøli, has spoken twice, but still has a speaking time of 3 minutes, as she is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1636	It's true, as Solberg's representative says, that Klöverhagen is just one example of the degradation of the private, voluntary, non-profit institutions that are now taking place. Another example is the Feiring Clinic. Former Minister of Health Hanssen, in the same government that is now in place, promised that the Feiring Clinic would have 900 patients. And if they didn't get enough, they would get money. It hasn't happened. It's a solid lifting break on something that workers' party representatives from Akershu were running election campaigns on for weeks and months. In addition, Hanssen said that the Feiring Clinic in connection with the capital process should not only be a supplement, but it should actually be part of the total offer in terms of heart treatment in Health South-East. Then the other health regions would use the Fairing Clinic within Free Hospital Choice. It has not happened either. Now the Celebrating Clinic is being built down. There's been a redundancy between 20 and 30 people. They have requested to start an ablation treatment. They have not received an answer to that either. It's completely silenced from the government parties now in the Feiring Clinic. This is another example of the fact that this government, by not doing what they have promised, contributes to the fact that such an important professionally good institution as Klöverhagen is now closed down, and that the Feiring Clinic must reduce. It's a red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1645	There has been something strange about listening to the opposition today. Both in terms of the interaction reform, and in terms of the psychiatry escalation plan, all professional recommendations are that we should have more of the health services, not least psychiatric health services, in the municipalities, and close to where people live. Therefore, it is necessary to do something about the allocation of resources between what is happening in institutions and what is happening at the second level. But it's not that under this government, for example. have been purchased less in private institutions; on the contrary, it has become almost 20 pst. multiple purchases of private spaces within the rehabilitation field and within different disease groups. So I also believe, as the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen, that it is strange whether we should sit in the Stortinget and make decisions about individual institutions. What I think we're going to ask the Council of State to do is follow up the dialogue with the health company, which has a care-for-responsibilities also for these demented patients, which I've recently heard many professionals think have better access to psychiatric services where they have their home, where they live – whether it's nursing homes, nursing homes or some other home. It allows them to feel safe and get help in an environment that is known. This does not mean that I do not understand that you want Klöverhagen. The diaphragm is, as I understand it, a good institution. Nor is it right that the professional competence that is there is not used today. I just said in my speech that the competence that Klöverhagen has, which I hope can be used in the municipalities of the region, is within a very exciting research project together with the public in the field of dementia care and treatment of the disease of the elderly. I am very pleased, and I believe that the Council of State will follow up on the fact that the patients who have received help from Klöverhagen now get a good offer near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1654	After hearing the contribution from the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen, I thought I had to go up again. When he mentions the opposition as inconsistent, you have to listen far on the way, because he represents a party that, in my view, at least has a policy that is inconsistent with the system. So this is actually what he's up to. But when he gets to stand on this pulpit and almost give the impression that this is not politically wild, this is just something that has happened, and it's almost unheard of that we're taking matters to Stortinget, I don't know if we're going to understand the representative Hansen to the point that the Health Council has abdicated, that she has no control anymore, and that there's no policy in the mission papers that are being sent out. It almost sounds like that. I believe, as the representative of Solberg, that this is a misguided policy, and I think it is real. But then you have to stand up and say that this is the way it is: we don't have the confidence in private and nonprofit institutions, we want to build it up, we want to build up the public sector. It's more real actually to say it than to give the impression that you don't mean it, but nevertheless it does. I'm actually proud that we're representatives in this room, who bring things up that involve us. We're not dealing with all the issues that come, but we're dealing with the issues that the representative Solberg also pointed out are good examples of why we think red-green policy is wrong. I understand very well that it is uncomfortable to belong to red-green parties and to defend today that you are building down such a good offer, building down the competence and environment that is up there, with the distances that we have been well illustrated here. I understand it's unpleasant. Now you have two choices: you can stand up and defend it, or you may find it too uncomfortable and possibly vote for the opposition's proposal and provide for further operation for the Klöverhagen until there is good enough capacity elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1663	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1666	The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen talks about inconsistency, and if there's something SV really has to do with, it's probably just that. We're going to be ombudsmen in this room. We are ombudsmen for the users, for the inhabitants, and when the government is not, at least we in the Stortingen must be. We're going to have services in the municipalities. We're going to have good services in the municipalities. We're going to expand the services in the municipalities. Yes, well, we can, but we can't put down the offer we have – the good offer we have – until we have created the new services in the municipalities. Then it's inconsistent, and then at least we don't take care of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1673	If I am to sum up this debate and the speeches by the Red-Green politicians, including the Minister of Health and Care, it must be that this is one of the strongest settlements a government fraction has ever made with its former Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. He actually intervened in this case and promised directly over the table state money to secure an offer that he thought was in line with an interaction reform, for which he himself was responsible. We have now heard throughout this debate a strong criticism of the opposition, which is in fact the only ones who are now defending the behaviour of the previous Minister of Health in this matter, namely that what happened here on the part of the healthcare company is contrary to the political leadership of the Storting and of an overall political environment – both in relation to private, in relation to this patient group and in relation to the cooperation reform. So the opposition – like Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – agrees that this should have been intervened in, given money to and secured further. But the government parties are today more system defenders than defenders of the individual patient and the policy we actually thought they stood for. With regard to Tove Karoline Knutsen’s claim that one has not reduced the use of rehabilitation days by private institutions during this government, it is wrong. In 2005, a 769 931 stay-day used, in 2009 a 707 560 stay-day used. That's a reduction of over 60,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1681	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 3882]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1699	The relationship between alcohol and health is often limited in the Norwegian alcohol debate. But the relationship is strong. Alcohol contributes to accidents, to mental problems and to harm others. According to the World Health Organisation, alcohol kills 2.5 million people per year because of, among other things, alcohol. heart and liver damage, caused by accidents, suicides and cancer. This represents 3.8 pst. of all deaths. That is thus the third most important cause of early death and functional loss in the world. But alcohol - related damage is disparately distributed in the world community. Recently, knowledge of the health effects of alcohol related to infectious diseases such as tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS has also emerged. According to Norwegian and international research, alcohol abuse and alcohol-related harm are a major social problem than drugs. The distinction between alcohol use and alcohol abuse is slipping and has grey areas, according to SIRUS. The World Health Organisation also makes it apparent that after tobacco, alcohol is the main factor that increases the burden of disease in a country. During these priority periods, it may also be interesting to point out how alcohol is a burden on health care and contributes to an increase in expenditure. In fact, a number of hospitalisations have alcohol as a direct or indirect cause. Alcohol abuse is strongly linked to some of the main social problems facing developing countries, such as poverty, marginalisation, violence against women and, as mentioned above, the spread of HIV/AIDS. In many developing countries, men are major consumers of alcohol, and women and children become victims. The WHO Global Alcohol Strategy focuses precisely on the relationship between alcohol and health. It thus provides a basis for introducing measures to reduce alcohol-related harm. Price, availability and marketing are among the measures that we know have proven to be effective by reducing alcohol consumption and, therefore, the adverse health effects. In the recent World Health Organisation Health Assembly, 30 countries took part in the debate on the strategy. Several countries proposed increased resources to follow up the decision, or strategy, to the WHO. I have today raised this interpellation because it is essential that the WHO global alcohol strategy be followed up further. FORWARD, Solidarity Action for Development, at the time of the adoption of the strategy, stated that alcohol use is an obstacle to development in many countries. Both the world's poor and the whole nation's affected. The alcohol strategy is therefore a historical event in development policy context. An active alcohol policy must be an important part of a country's development policy. Despite increasing abuse and alcohol use among young people, only half of WHO members have a national alcohol policy today. The global alcohol strategy emphasises knowledge-based measures to reduce health damage to alcohol. Central here are laws to limit the sale and supply of alcohol, alcohol warnings on alcohol labels, minimum unit price of alcohol and alcohol charges. The World Health Organisation strategy draws up limits of cooperation with the alcohol industry, but the strategy does not completely reject contact between the WHO and industry, as is the case with contact between the WHO and the tobacco industry. In this context, it is important that Norway, in its contact with the WHO, points out that there must be strict limits to contact with industry when implementing the strategy and drawing up its national plans. The reason for that is obvious. The alcohol industry presents self-regulation rather than regulation and wants to have as few restrictions as possible. The alcohol industry has recently launched a new initiative for Global Actions. Here have a number of companies, such as Bacardi and Heineken, combined to finance measures internationally promoting self-regulation as a principle of alcohol policy. Global Actions shall support measures against pro-mille driving and the production and placing on the market of alcohol outside normal production facilities. They will thus make it visible that they will combat the individual harmful effects of alcohol. Their own centre, the ICAP – which stands for the International Center for Alcohol Policies – will be responsible for the implementation of these objectives. In the next three years, they will make a great effort to make an impact on these initiatives. Central and low-income countries will be in focus. Self-regulation as a strategy will focus in particular on Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Nigeria, the Philippines, Rwanda, Ukraine and Vietnam. The fight against alcohol and driving will focus on China, Colombia, Mexico, Nigeria, Russia and Vietnam, and efforts against the production and placing on the market of illicit alcohol will focus on Belarus, Brazil, Botswana, China, Estonia, India, Kenya, Mexico, Russia and Sri Lanka. Thus, the alcohol industry has made an enormous effort through a self-regulatory strategy, and the alcohol industry has in the past tried to develop the alcohol policy in several African countries. Such alcohol strategies overlook knowledge-based measures to prevent alcohol-related harm. They do not have a public health approach to alcohol. Instead, these focus on the economic benefits of alcohol trafficking. They also stress that alcohol has played and plays an important role in society. To the extent that there is a focus on alcohol-related harm, there is an individual approach. As mentioned above, the implementation of the WHO strategy will be crucial. It also requires resources. There are limited resources in the WHO system, and despite the decision on a global alcohol strategy, it is unlikely that large resources will be re-prioritized to this in-house in the WHO. Therefore, financial support from Norway will be important, also because Norway has been the initiator of the strategy. I meet the Council of State's plans for financial support for the alcohol strategy. As mentioned above, the alcohol industry stands ready with its strategy of assisting poor countries in the formulation of alcohol policy, from a completely different perspective than in the WHO. Norway will be able to make an active contribution, including: with experience from one's own alcohol policy. Norway is still low in terms of alcohol consumption per capita, compared with some other countries, and this is largely attributed to the alcohol policy pursued and pursued in Norway. Nevertheless, we see that Norwegian alcohol policy is also being challenged today. Recently, a few of the government's government councils have discussed outside to open up to, for example: farmers can sell alcoholic goods from their own sales, far from the monopoly policy on which they have been, and are, broadly agreed. Since last year, the government has notified changes to the alcohol law, including: change in timing, and it's very positive. Unfortunately, the matter has not yet come to Stortinget, but I hope that it is near at hand, and that the Council of State can confirm it today. But my primary question to the Council of State today is: Will the government follow up the global alcohol strategy of the World Health Organisation by supporting WHO in its implementation and at the same time intensifying its efforts against alcohol damage at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1739	Interpellanten Bavøy addresses a very important topic. Norway has been strongly committed to strengthening international cooperation to reduce alcohol-related harm. The European Region of the World Health Organisation has had an action plan in the field of alcohol since the early 1990s. In 2005, the World Health Assembly adopted a resolution on the harmful use of alcohol. In 2007, the Nordic countries promoted a resolution at the World Health Assembly. There we asked the Secretary-General to draw up a proposal for a global alcohol strategy. The proposal met with resistance from a number of countries, and no consensus was reached. However, in 2008 the Health Assembly agreed on a mandate for work on a global strategy for submission in 2010. The African region of the World Health Organisation was an important initiator. Since 2008, there has been extensive consultation with meetings in all six health regions of the World Health Organisation. There has also been an informal consultation meeting that was open to all Member States. At the meeting of the WHO Executive Committee in January this year, the text of a strategy was agreed and the strategy was finally adopted at the Health Assembly in May. There are several reasons why Norway has actively committed itself to reducing alcohol-related harm. The Stortinget also wanted such a bet. Firstly, the general internationalisation implies the need to strengthen cooperation in order to achieve better results. Of course, this also applies in the area of alcohol. Secondly, what the interpellant is about is that many third-world countries are experiencing aggressive marketing of alcohol products without having regulatory instruments to deploy, as we have in developed countries. This trend is part of a broader global trend, with growth in so-called non-infectious diseases affecting developing countries with full strength. There's talk of the double burden of disease, that is, infectious diseases and chronic disorders occur at the same time. This development is partly due to the increase in life expectancy, which in itself leads to an increase in chronic disorders, and partly to a change in lifestyle and diet. The World Health Organisation has developed methods to measure the disease burden, including: by adding a number to what is commonly called functionally adjusted years of life. This figure sums up years of premature death due to illness and years of disability due to illness. There are four major risk factors related to lifestyles: tobacco, alcohol, poor diet and lack of exercise. Alcohol is now the third highest risk factor for disease globally, measured in functionally adjusted years of life. The global alcohol strategy will need to be included as a central part of global efforts to combat the non-infectious diseases. The alcohol strategy is provided as a guide to Member States on the availability of instruments and what the knowledge base says on the impact of different interventions. An international group of researchers has recently studied literature dealing with the effects of various instruments on alcohol. Substances that are already at the core of Norwegian alcohol policy are best reported in terms of costs and efficiency. The strategy does not provide for a common policy. The situation in each country varies, both socially, culturally and structurally. The same instruments will therefore not always work equally well everywhere. Developing good reporting systems to capture developments over time is central to the strategy. In this way, countries can be stimulated to choose effective responses. It is important to ensure that the strategy is implemented, and Norway will be actively involved in this work. I would like to underline the importance of well anchored work in the World Health Organisation's own organisation. In this respect, I would like to mention that the new Regional Director of Europe, Zsuzsanna Jakab, wants to strengthen the regional agency's involvement in the field of non-infectious diseases. The aim is to update the European alcohol action plan to the 2011 regional meeting. With regard to the efforts in Norway, I would like to stress that we are already using the instruments that have the most weighty professional anchoring. Norway has a wide range of instruments at population level that we use through legal regulation. The main instruments are the licensing system, the wine monopoly system, limited sales and delivery times, advertising bans, statutory age limits and restrictive charging policy – i.e. primarily price-related and availability-related measures. Norway is among the countries in Europe with the lowest alcohol consumption. It can be done, among other things: clear from surveys of school students' drug and tobacco habits. We can therefore say that the alcohol policy is working. We need to maintain this position by continuing to pursue a restrictive alcohol policy. The government has – so far – chosen to keep the level of charges at inflation adjusted, despite the pressure to adjust charges. We evaluate the level of charges on an ongoing basis. The availability of alcohol has been largely delegated to local authorities through the sales and donation system. Municipalities are also responsible for verifying compliance by beneficiaries with the alcohol legislation and the requirements of the authorisation, including: that they comply with the prohibitions on the crossing and surrender of minors. The State is responsible for facilitating the use of the instruments by municipalities under the Alcohol Act and for drawing up the framework for municipal freedom. In the hearing note of 23 September 2009, the Government proposed to reduce the turnout time by one hour. The Ministry is well in the process of reviewing the consultation opinions and evaluating them. The matter will be sent to Stortinget as soon as possible, probably early in the fall. We have also undertaken a major effort to strengthen the control of local authorities over the beneficiaries. The Health Directorate has conducted a number of control courses for inspectors and case handlers. Furthermore, the Health Directorate will assess in 2010 whether inspiration can be drawn from the Swedish STAD project in order to improve compliance with the alcohol legislation. The number of wine monopoly sales has increased in recent years, mainly for non-sale municipalities. National and international research shows that state-wide retail monopolies are effective in preventing alcohol-related damage and problems. One important reason for this is that monopolies ensure limited and controlled availability of alcoholic beverages. Another reason is that there are no private economic interests that motivate increased sales. In view of this, the government has wanted to ensure as much equal accessibility as possible to the services of the Vinmonopole. From a public health point of view, it is important to pursue a policy that enables us to maintain this form of marketing of liqueur beer, wine and spirits. Norway has been, and will continue to be, driving the WHO to fight alcohol-related harm, both internationally and nationally. There is good evidence that Norway's restrictive alcohol policy is working. I can assure you that health policy will continue to operate along this line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1779	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. I am confident about the continued Norwegian efforts in this area. I very much agree with what the Council of State said, both in terms of the need to work further internationally and that guidance and knowledge for the Member States are absolutely crucial. Clearly, the instruments need to be slightly different from one country to another, depending on where they are, where they are and what population they have. What I also think is very good, is that the WHO, at least in our region, is already thinking about future strategies. What I mentioned in my post that I am somewhat concerned about is this aggressive marketing from the industry and their strategy. If you go into the Internet and you see the work that's already going on, you see that here they add up to a huge device. This industry probably has quite a lot of resources. My question is, I suppose, whether the Council of States can imagine that the WHO, like Norway, can follow a little and look at the development of this market strategy – that is, with the principle of self-regulation. There are, of course, many ways in which there may be contradictions between legislation and guidelines in each country. Of course, this industry will also use industry as an argument for non-regulation. So it's kind of exciting to hear if, in WHO's strategy, you might add up that you're also going to keep an eye on this. Finally, I must say that I am very pleased with the government's clear attitude to continue to have a restrictive alcohol policy in Norway. It's working. It's great that we're working on changes to the alcohol law. I had hoped that the matter had come in our spring, but it comes early in the autumn. We'll be happy with that. At the same time, we read today in the VG about something that the Council of State was also concerned about, namely better compliance with the alcohol rules. It is important that we also look at what other countries might have done here, because we are not good enough in Norway. Our municipalities aren't good enough. Only in Akershus, I believe it was in the VG, it is that seven out of ten municipalities do not control this in a good enough way. So again, thank you to the Council of State. I'm very satisfied with the answer so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1790	Yes, there should be no doubt that the government is concerned that we are still going to pursue a restrictive alcohol policy in Norway. Because even though we see the realities, that is the third biggest cause of life and year loss globally, alcohol in high-income countries like Norway is the second largest cause of disability loss. It is thought-provoking, particularly in the context of the inter-pellant, that alcohol consumption in Norway is lower than in other countries. So this is kind of going to be a contradiction. But at least it shows that there is no reason not to pursue the policy pursued. We see that it works. I very much agree that it is important for municipalities to follow up on those who donate alcohol, especially in the case of young people. The fact that we have good control and competence among those who walk around and control the tipping points is very important and something that we follow up. Of course, in terms of the strategy adopted by the World Health Organisation, we should be a driver for it. It is in Norwegian interest that we are. It is also the case that in 2004, under another government and another Minister for Social Affairs and Health, the Bondevik II Government, cooperation with the EU and the World Health Organisation was agreed. Prime Minister Stoltenberg has signaled that we want to continue the cooperation that had started. As regards follow-up to the World Health Organisation, I can also assure you that we will do so in the best possible way. Norway is now also represented on the board globally in the World Health Organisation. It's important. We are also an active contributor and participant in the World Health Organisation in different forums and in different contexts. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1801	First, I have to commend the interpellant to address an important question and an area where there are many prejudices in society today, what is related to drug problems. Today, there are significant changes in alcohol consumption in Norway, both in terms of drinking habits and quantity. We see that we have a low consumption in Norway compared to other countries, but we also see that alcohol consumption in Norway is rising. That's what's our challenge, if we're going to see it from that side. Alcohol-related harm is very great in view of the health challenges we face, both the psychological damage and not least the physical damage associated with violence, etc. It affects all walks of life. You can't say that it only affects big cities or just single families, it affects all walks of life. We saw a strong feature about Lundequam on TV yesterday, and it is in all national media today, about the consequences it has for individuals, and not least what consequences it has for families – for young people and other relatives. So this applies not only to those who live with drug problems in isolation, but it affects the whole family around. It is also about quality of life not only for those who abuse alcohol and alcohol, but it is about quality of life for those who are close to the drug user. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear and clear that this is a problem she is taking seriously, nationally and not least internationally, and that she wants to follow up the strategy adopted at the Health Conference in May this year. However, when we meet these challenges, the difficult and tough instruments that may need to be implemented – and these are instruments that are unpopular today. We remember when the smoking law was passed. It wasn't so popular that people called hip hurrah. Many thought that now the restaurants would be laid down and go bankrupt. But that hasn't happened. No one wants to go back. I was in St. Petersburg and Kaliningrad with the Nordic Council, and when you see people sitting and smoking in meetings, in restaurants, etc., it's kind of strange. The launch of large campaigns that say something about the adverse effects of this is important. But we adults also have our own responsibility, not least to our own kids. We cannot talk about the adverse effects of tobacco and alcohol while sitting at the kitchen table and enjoying alcohol. It is also about the responsibility we have towards them around us. This with closing hours has also been the subject of debate here in Stortinget. I saw a look in the address paper, where it said that the number of rape episodes in Trondheim had fallen considerably after the opening hours had been reduced. It is not popular for a rapporteur, for a local government or a city government to propose, but it works when they are implemented. In a meeting with the Wine Monopoly, we saw that the turnover for tax-free is almost as high as for the Wine Monopoly in Norway. Do we still want a tax-free system, or do we want prices to be higher – or what means should we implement? So to this with age limit and control. There are also unpopular measures. Should we raise the age limit and make control even more stringent in restaurant life? Do we want to take the consequences of these growing challenges, with the tools that need to be put in place to limit these adverse effects? We see this in tobacco, alcohol, sugar and unhealthy food. This health conference, which was held in Geneva, was passed on to the Council of State in terms of the labelling of unhealthy baby foods. These are important pieces, and we have to be tough and make use of the tools. It's important, I think, that we go ahead, and that the international community looks at how we do it in Norway, that we get a new look at that policy. And it's not least about knowledge -- we can't guess what works. When the measures are taken and we get to try them out, we have to be able to stand together. When opinion considers this to be unpopular, we need to be tough and make the choices that need to be made to reduce the long-term turnover and adverse effects. I am pleased with the interpellation and not least the Council of State's response in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1827	On Friday I visited the Alfa Treatment Centre in Vestfold. There I attended a graduation ceremony for some of those who had completed their treatment as well as others who had carried out what they called the family week. There were also others on the road to abstinence, as well as former users of the centre and now long-term drug-free. And they took all the word. I heard women and men of all ages — with a background in drugs or alcohol — tell about their lives and the way back. There were very strong stories I heard. It's a little strange to sit and listen to people you've never met and you don't know, but who still touch you so much that you know the famous lump in your throat, and you know that you're getting blank in your eyes. There was so much pain in these stories, not only from the individual, but to the greatest extent also from the relatives. Several of these were present and said a few words: spouses, girlfriends, parents, siblings, and children of drug addicts. This told me how important it is that we have good treatment places. It told me how important follow-up and post-protection are, and not least that the offer was available when it was urgent. In the perfect world, we wouldn't need such treatment sites, but we don't live in any perfect world, and I'm pretty sure drugs have come to stay. Prevention will be what needs to be an important task now and in the future. I have lost faith that availability and price are the only gratifying. In principle, drugs have no outlets and thus no opening hours, they have no advertising posters and are highly priced. Never has the streets flooded again with drugs of all kinds, and the number of users is increasing. Young people report that drugs are easier to obtain than alcohol. I'm concerned that we're using the knowledge we have. We're going to make sure that children and young people don't get any alcohol. We're going to run adult awareness campaigns to buy alcohol for minors. I particularly like the last campaigns of the Vinmonopolet, which I think have been very good. We need to give good knowledge to children and young people through school, and we need to teach them good attitudes and respect for the effects and disadvantages of alcohol. And not least, we need to provide good growth conditions for children and young people, and a public system that catches up early on those who don't have good growth conditions. Too many people develop a drug problem because of difficult growing-up conditions, and where society also fails. For these, it's not about availability or price. For these it's about surviving a pain that disappears with the rush. I'm glad it seems to have become a stronger focus on children's growing-up conditions when parents have a drug problem. Too many children are deprived of their childhood and must be the adult early. They grow up with insecurity, little structure, anxiety and constant fear that something serious will happen to the one who is really going to be the caregiver. These children are also very loyal and try to cover their parents ’ abuse as best they can. As the interpellant points out, alcohol abuse leads to disease and early death. The Progress Party shall meet any discussion and action that may contribute in this context. That is why we have promoted a document No. 8 proposals for comprehensive care, from prevention to treatment and aftercare, with more than 50 proposals for improvement and change. That is why each year the Progress Party grants additional funds for these purposes, and that is why this has had a great place in our approach to the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1846	Alcohol is a legal product in Norway, but it is not a common product. There is a product that one needs to have its own systems for selling, charging and regulating turnover, because the consequences of alcohol are very great in our society. In the industrialized countries, this is the third most important cause of harm and health problems. In Norway, alcohol is the drug that causes the greatest health damage and the greatest social damage. Sometimes in the debate on drugs, illicit drugs is the biggest problem. It's not. It's alcohol. Therefore, it is important that the interpellant addresses this type of discussion, about alcohol policy, at a general level, and that alcohol policy in the Grand Duchy is not just about the individual issues and the symbolic discussions. The international research-based review of alcohol policy instruments is very clear and very convincing. In five out of seven areas, I believe that Norway is clearly within the recommended strategies – we maintain and follow up the recommendations that are coming and that prove to work, both through alcohol taxes, price controls, regulation of physical availability, restrictions on sales and delivery times and the number of outlets, measures against per mill drive, information and awareness-raising work, regulation of advertising. However, in one of the areas recommended, we may not be good enough: monitoring of risky consumption and early intervention in health services, increased availability of treatment programmes. I think we may have a long way to go before someone has developed a position, especially in our healthcare system, that a person is addressing alcohol consumption and problems related to alcohol consumption in dealing with the patient, for example. in the permanent medical centres, that one discusses the consequences and not least has an offer to change risky alcohol habits before having an extensive problem with alcohol consumption. That's where I think we have a good piece left. In the other areas, the Right believes that we have found a good balance in having an alcohol policy that has legitimacy in the population. It is also one of the criteria underlying an alcohol policy that works, that alcohol policy has a legitimacy in the population. It's not that even if you know what's working, you can run what's working until the end. The population must also feel that it is reasonable. That is why I believe that the monopoly on wine has adapted to the purchasing habits of the population in other areas, for example. with self-operated poles, by having poles available in very many municipalities and by having a service position with their customers, perhaps the most important thing that has happened to ensure that we take care of such an effective instrument as the wine monopoly. Had the wine monopoly been suspended again in the old system, with an old-fashioned approach to its customers, perhaps the entire wine monopoly system had fallen because it had no longer had legitimacy in the population. This way you can also go through the area area. It is important to strike the right balance by having effective instruments, while at the same time the instruments also have an upsurge in the population. That's where the Right believes that we've found a good balance. It is important to pursue an alcohol policy that works. Norway has an alcohol policy that works so that we can stay at a lower level of alcohol consumption than the countries with which we can compare ourselves, although, of course, there are areas for improvement in this area as well. When it comes to offering to groups, I would also like to point out, as several others have done, that relatives are perhaps the most widely translated group in this area, and that there is a need to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1865	First, I would like to say that this is an important interplay in an important policy area, both nationally and, as it was mentioned, in a global perspective. We in the Center Party share the Christian People's Party's concern for possible negative developments in this field. Extensive research has been carried out on the relationship between alcohol consumption and various types of harm. The World Health Organization has calculated that alcohol accounts for about 3 pst. of all deaths on a world-wide basis. By comparison, the World Health Organisation reports that drugs account for about 0.4 pst. We know a lot that the social problems of alcohol use are at least as worrying as the health problems. The research also shows that drugs that reduce alcohol availability have an impact both on total consumption and on the extent of harm. This is an instrument that has been central to the Norwegian drug policy, and among other things. include the wine monopoly arrangements, fees, age limits, sales and gift destinations and control activities. Such a reduction in availability also affects consumption in particularly important target groups, such as young people and large consumers. But our challenge is that the alcohol consumption in Norway, despite this, is rising, even though the government's action plan has a reduction target. Although Norway has had a low alcohol consumption per capita compared with other countries, it is worrying that the turnover of alcohol in Norway has changed every year since 2003 and is now at its highest since a measure of turnover. Even in 2009, when we experienced the greatest economic downturn in recent times, it appears that high alcohol consumption remained stable. We've had an explosion in the number of outdoors and an extension over the last 20 years, and the hamlets are sometimes easy to get and often hard to lose. That's why there's an important interpellation that the Christian People's Party is producing today. In Norway today, in my view, there is a worrying generalization of alcohol as a commodity. Although there is today a ban on advertising, there is a flood of hidden advertising, in the form of so-called product reviews. In winter I have noticed health pages in the national newspapers about the best wine for the winter holidays, about the best cardboard wine for Easter, about the best OL champagne, etc. During the transport strike, I noticed newspaper headlines that informed that your favorite wine could disappear from the shelves, and I have registered product reviews with images and the price of the summer wines already. When the sale of cardboard wine increases, it is produced as a cause of joy in the newspapers. Overall, there is a lot of hidden positive alcohol advertising and an unlikely few articles in the media about the negative aspects of alcohol. Imagine if the same thing had been done with tobacco and snuff, goods that, as I know, should have the same advertising ban. It would have been quite strange to read newspaper stories about the Easter snuze, or about the most aromatic VM tobacco. This shows a little bit of society's acceptance for alcohol. The government has proposed to reduce the maximum donation time in the alcohol laws from 0 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 2:00 a.m. This is a change that the central part sets itself at 100 pst. rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, rearwards, etc. We have programmed this in our bulking program for this period. There is also a large majority of the population to introduce such a scheme, and the police report a marked decrease in alcohol-related harm in municipalities that have reduced their turnout times. Regulating the timing is a good preventive measure that I don't think we can afford to ignore. When it comes to drug policy, it seems that there is greater legitimacy to talk about it, the same applies to restrictive measures against tobacco use. It doesn't feel the same when it comes to alcohol. That's what I thought we had to change. And it is true, as has been said, that one has to take more responsibility for the municipalities in relation to prevention efforts. Finally, I have a heart attack: it's not just the municipalities that need to get more focus, it's also parents. There are too many children who swear for May 17th, dormant for Christmas. I know about the confirmations where the party has gone over that the grown-ups start drinking at the end. This is also something that we have to address, and for which the municipalities have a great responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1880	I would like to thank everyone who has participated in a very good debate, and would like to make a few comments on what has been said. I very much agree with the representative Jorod Asphjell that the drug problem in Norway, and probably in many other countries, has often met many prejudices. In particular, I think of the research that has been on the adverse effects, and that in fact, in such an important organisation as the World Health Organisation has recognised that there are major adverse effects, one has developed a separate strategy. It is very important in the years to come. Restrictions by governments and by law can now be uncomfortable for many, too strict. But my attitude has always been that we should have strict rules, we should have a restrictive alcohol policy, and those I think of first of all will have the benefit of it, are our children, our young people. We will then be able to give a clear signal to young people that alcohol is not a groceries, as the representative, Höie, too, was. Alcohol is not equal to milk, shower and other things, but can actually be dangerous and destructive, and to some extent you can get sick of it. Young people know that early. The representative, Kjos, had a very good report on the importance of adequate treatment facilities, prevention, aftercare. Although we do not have the same attitude in terms of restrictions and policies as such, I still want to tell the representative of the Progress Party that there is a lot of research now, there is a documented link between price and availability – actually very much. But it's got to be, it was still a good idea to help the drug addicts. The representative, Höie, was also in sufficient treatment areas. He was also involved in our law, the Wine Monopoly, as one of the most important alcohol policy instruments we have. I agree. However, it is good to note that in this Chamber there is great support for the alcohol policy we are pursuing in Norway. It's incredibly satisfying. In the end, I would like to mention that when I was the Council of State, I started a work related to the children of addicted parents and mentally ill parents. Here, too, the government has followed up an important proposal from the Stortinge in the last period, namely to legislate for the help of these children. I also agree with the last representative, Mr Toppe, that parental responsibility is incredibly important. There are now guidance notes in the parental guidance programme that address this issue of being good parents in terms of good alcohol habits for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1897	I also want to – once again really – thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. That's right, what was said, is that it's not only in the United Kingdom that there's a big deal about alcohol policy in Norway, it's also in the population. That's good, because even though we can worry that there's an increase in alcohol consumption, and we should want it to go in the other direction, at least we're on a good side of the statistics on consumption. Nor am I in doubt that price and availability are important factors in this. The wine monopoly scheme is not only popular in Stortinget, it is also popular in the population. It was at the top of the People's Library of the Inhabitant Survey. It is important that we also politically manage the wine monopoly system in such a way that it is also compatible with international legislation, and not least with EEA legislation. Kjenaas Kjos said that drug addiction and drug abuse caused a lot of suffering and pain – and I fully agree with that – both with the addict and with the relatives. When it comes to the work done on children, children as relatives, they have their own rights in general with regard to children of patients in institutions. I also want to say that the organization Adults for Children has done a very good job with regard to information material for institutions that have children, for example. kindergartens and schools, in order to raise and help children talk about the difficult issues in this context. I think it's a very important work in everyday life, because this applies to so many. I agree with the representative Kjersti Toppe when she says that there is not much focus on the adverse effects of alcohol. When a year's examination at the Oslo Medical Watch showed that 64 pst. Of all the cases of violence that came in, were related to alcohol, it is clear that this is also a major problem in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1911	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e1917	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2023	In Case No. No voting theme is available. Case No. 5 was an interpellation to the Foreign Minister from Akhtar Chaudhry. Most of them have probably found that the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen, made an excellent debut as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2046	During the debate Jon Jäger Gåsvatn has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to appoint a public body to draft a proposal for a Norwegian social contract in the areas of health, care and social services. Such a sample should represent the authorities, user organisations and a wide range of private and private non-profit health and care activities. The results of the sample shall be submitted to the Size Panel.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2056	President! The right will vote subsidiaryly for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2061	Can the representative Höie repeat what he said now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2064	The right-hand side will vote in favour of the suspension, so there is no alternative between the suspension and the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2069	Then we do it so that we vote first on the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2097	During the debate, Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Klöverhagen receives support for interaction actions, as suggested in a meeting with the Ministry of Health and Health on 24 September 2009, if it is possible to ensure the further operation of the offer.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the NKS Klöverhagen and the offer and competence of the institution are maintained until there is a professionally at least as good alternative offer to the patient group.’; Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2126	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-09.ana.ud1586e2139	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the end of the meeting? - The meeting's been cancelled.
