ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e44	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e47	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I will be allowed to submit proposals for tax exemptions for health insurance and training cards paid by employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e52	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e55	I am delighted to make proposals to amend the People's Security Act so that foreign citizens who come to Norway and commit criminal acts do not have the right to membership in the public interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e87	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e96	There is a strong political consensus on the importance of good and well-functioning Nordic cooperation. Sick if we live in a world with increasing globalisation and internationalisation, and borders in many ways mean less than before, the Nordic region with its common cultural and language community is something special. By uniting and coordinating forces, we can achieve more. Thus, cooperation is beneficial to all parties. It's around such thinking that we have to look at Nordic cooperation. We play each other good by betting on what we can, and developing the advantages that we already have. Nordic cooperation is broad and covers many fields, many areas. That is probably right, as well as the Nordic countries in many areas. However, it is also important to ensure that one in the thinking around Nordic cooperation is constantly focusing on what matters to the citizens of the Nordic countries – in everyday life. Here, the last years of work on so-called frontier barriers are very important. In fact, there is no reason to believe that we at Stortinget or in other contexts talk about how important Nordic cooperation is, if everyday life is perceived as problematic for the citizens of the Nordic region, for example. the right to live on one side of a national border and to have a job on the other side of the national border, or, as Mr Vold has said in the last few days, if cross-border communication is difficult. The point of violence is that there is too much rail connection between Oslo and Stockholm, and I think we must certainly give violence right in that. There is in reality no well-functioning railway link between Oslo and Stockholm. I am pleased that the reduction of border barriers is a priority area for the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers. An increasing number of cross-border borders, national borders that have been created for a completely different time. At that time, border barriers are negative for people who, for business reasons, for work reasons and perhaps because of studies, need to cross one or more borders. And I underline: the goal of this work must be to make everyday life easier for those who relate to one or more of the Nordic borders. In 2007, the so-called Border Obstacle Forum was established. It is led by the Finnish ambassador Olle Norrback. The Norwegian representative in the Forum is former Nordic Minister for Cooperation Bjarne Dørk-Eidem. Border Obstacle Forums report annually to the Nordic Prime Ministers. They've addressed important issues, and that's how I interpret what they've been working on, some areas that are appointing themselves. There are social security, pension and social security rights and regulations, which vary considerably between countries. In some areas, we have bigger differences than we might initially think about. It is important that we continue to work on and try to harmonise the legislation as best we can. Finally, let me say a few words about the so-called Stoltenberg report, the report prepared by former Minister of Defence and former Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorvald Stoltenberg on behalf of the five foreign ministers. The report was presented in February last year, and Stoltenberg outlines 13 concrete proposals for Nordic defence and security cooperation. That's very interesting reading. I'm sure the Stortinget gets the opportunity to come back to many of the points later, but let me just say for myself and for the Workers' Party that we have a great sense of many of the points that Stoltenberg has outlined in his report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e111	Let me thank the case rapporteur for a very good article with a lot of good points, to which I also think our group can very much join. I think the case rapporteur had a significant point in anchoring Nordic cooperation among the citizens of the Nordic region. This means that as politicians, we are holding the key to concretely specifying the political work that we are doing in the Nordic region, so that it matters to each individual citizen in our Nordic countries. It is no secret that very many Nordic citizens ask themselves the question of what is really going on in the Nordic Council. It is we who are responsible for explaining it to the citizens, and fill Nordic cooperation with a political content that makes citizens also view this as a good use of resources from a political point of view. It is clear that for Norway, extensive cooperation with our Nordic neighbours is of exceptional importance. It is important that we have concrete cooperation with our neighbours in very many areas – insofar as the neighbours are also outside Nordic cooperation. The north is an important arena, but it has to be used correctly. There we're probably asking ourselves if we've made Nordic cooperation concrete enough in relation to the everyday life we live in. Nordic cooperation has to be applied to the important issues, only then can the Nordic region become a current and interesting venue to participate in. There is a relatively large consensus in this setting. The rapporteur stressed the importance of cross-border cooperation in his speech. It is one of the things that I have so far pointed out in my post is a matter that is concrete and practical in terms of the everyday life of the Nordic citizens. There I now think – at least for the last few years – that a very good job has been done under the direction of Ambassador Norrback. We have also brought with us a very well-suited person from Norway who has the weight to listen to the importance that government councils, departments and governments focus on reducing border barriers in their daily work. But the question is whether we should be satisfied with what is happening, and whether we can expand and intensify the frontier-blocking work. This is also about getting free trade in all areas. These are not all areas where Norway wants free trade with our Nordic neighbours. It should be a paradox, and we should think it through, because I know that especially in the agricultural field, there is great irritation about Norwegian policies among some of our Nordic neighbours. Then, in the vote, there is a minority comment from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, asking questions about the scope of the globalisation project. I have now been a member of the Nordic Council for four years and have now gone into a new period, and I have problems seeing what we actually get out of the globalisation project. Globalization is enormous, and it gives us great challenges, but also great opportunities. I think it's a work we need to look at – whether we've become concrete enough to make this clear and visible in the everyday lives of the inhabitants of the Nordic countries. I also believe that we need to ask questions about whether the Nordic Council's work is good enough. Do we spend too much time on too many small things in the selections and at the session? Should we now focus on looking more at the big lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e130	Yesterday, the newspaper referred to an opinion by Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre, to which I can agree, saying that it may take a long time before the EU countries can unite on a common, powerful foreign policy. I think it's a proper observation of the EU's progress in many areas. However, the greater the scope for Nordic cooperation to develop into foreign and security policy. Based on the Stoltenberg report, which has been mentioned by previous speakers, there are good opportunities to have a broader debate on the defence and security policy area of Nordic cooperation, where there are, at least, opportunities for joint and powerful action, even though the power of the Nordic countries as a whole may not be as great as it will be for 27 EU Member States. The report is divided into seven main parts, with a total of 13 proposals. Nine of them are of a civil nature, three military nature, and one proposal – the 13. – so-called a Nordic declaration of solidarity. The right has noted with satisfaction that the Foreign Ministers have decided to take all proposals for further consideration, although they may stress that some of the proposals are of a very long-term nature. Not least from the Finnish side, I have the impression that it is repeatedly underlined. In this context, I would also like to mention that the Conservative Group in the Nordic Council, before the Stoltenberg report was available, had proposed that the Nordic governments should work towards deepening defence and security cooperation, a proposal which was subsequently given a large majority in the Council. We share the view that the work must, of course, be done within the commitments of cooperation in NATO, the EU and the OSCE. The great merit of the Stoltenberg report is that it covers areas of social security through foreign and security policy for defence cooperation and that the proposals presented do not depend on the participation of all countries in all. On the part of the Nordic Council, we also propose that cooperation on social security, foreign and defence policy should have a parliamentary dimension, that is to say, be anchored among parliamentarians. It is the tradition of Norway, too, that foreign policy has a broad parliamentary base, and there need be no exception in Nordic cooperation for this. The Nordic Council Bureau has also decided to appoint a special rapporteur, former Finnish Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja, for these areas. I think that the rapporteur is Finnish, that the pace can also be kept up better – to say it in a careful way. The Bureau will also draw up a programme for the follow-up of these issues by the Nordic Council, and we expect an annual report from the Foreign Ministers on the development of cooperation. We would also like to ask foreign ministers to hold an annual meeting with representatives of the Bureau, preferably during the spring session, to discuss the follow-up to the debate and decisions of the Nordic Council at the session and the further cooperation in this field. Similarly, the Bureau would also like to hold an annual meeting with the Nordic ministers responsible for social security in the respective countries. There is ample scope in this area for concrete cooperation that serves the interests of citizens. To give an example: the previous enlargement examined a report from the National Audit Office on major energy security deficiencies between the Nordic countries. In an area where you should think that cooperation was better, it's actually done quite little. It's an area that, not least in times like these, can be of great importance. I would also like to address a topic that has been raised in the Nordic Council before, and which was also included in the Stoltenberg report, namely the Nordic embassy cooperation. Nordic countries should try to coordinate their long-term plans with regard to embassies. There are now a review of how many embassies you really need in several of our Nordic countries. I see that the Norwegian Government is in front of a budgetary conference, which can certainly be demanding for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It may well be suggested that there are good opportunities for Nordic cooperation in this area that do not weaken national interests. The goal must be not only to have a co-location, which has been successful in Berlin, but also to have a geographical distribution of work, so that it becomes a global representation of the Nordic region as a whole. Finally, let me just say that I agree with what has been said by the previous speaker, not least by the case rapporteur, on the need to underline the cross-border work. But it has its biggest challenge in national work, i.e. it is followed up concretely. I would challenge the Minister of Cooperation to explain how she and the Government have organised the follow-up to this frontier-blocking work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e153	I had the pleasure of attending the session of the Nordic Council in Stockholm in December and got firsthand knowledge of the work of the Council. The Nordic region is a natural area of internal cooperation, but it is also a natural area of common policies towards the outside world. There is a great potential for further development of cooperation both internally and in relation to global efforts. The Committee points out that the Nordic Council is a good starting point for coordinating Nordic European policy. At the same time, however, it is important to focus on the Nordic region as an independent alternative with a perspective on cooperation across the EU and Europe. It is important to further develop cooperation on global challenges facing the Nordic region in a globalised value. SV is therefore pleased that climate and environment are defined as central areas of Nordic cooperation. But it's a potential to expand and concreteise the work on these areas. At the meeting in Stockholm, I had some articles in plenary on environmental technology as an industrial policy. I received many positive feedback from the article. Many representatives were concerned that the Nordic region has a good starting point for becoming a leading region in international contexts for the development and commercialisation of environmental technologies. It will be an important contribution both to meeting global challenges and to creating robust industries and secure jobs in a long-term perspective. In this context, it is gratifying that the Nordic Investment Bank is increasingly investing in environmental technologies and environmentally friendly energy in its loan assessments. The Nordic region also has a high potential for cooperation on climate-friendly transport. All Nordic countries give high priority to rail. It should therefore be possible to achieve synergies through closer cooperation in this area. Cooperation on the effective high-speed rail link between the Nordic countries should be a natural part of this cooperation. At its 2008 Helsinki session, the Nordic Council adopted a decision recommending a comprehensive and concrete Nordic commitment to rail and climate-friendly inter-country transport, but we have not made enough progress in the follow-up to this decision. Transport is one of the few policy areas that have not formalised cooperation between Nordic governments. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider restoring the Transport Council, as requested by the Nordic Council in 2008. For example, this is how we can do it. coordinate transport plans that the Nordic countries are now preparing separately, thereby providing good links between the Nordic countries. Research and innovation is also a central area of the Nordic Council, and it is an area that has been allocated some economic resources. The setting-up of networking programmes for higher education and research are important elements contributing to links and can create a professional environment that is above a critical minimum in areas where there is little resources in each country. The Nordic countries have different organisation of research and innovation activities, but it can be just a strength. By comparing strong and weak sides of the different models, you can learn from each other. The Committee also underlines the value of the Arctic security work, including: through Arctic Council. This is a very important work in the light of the climate challenges. The Arctic Council has a great potential for understanding and meeting the major climate challenges we face. SV takes a positive view of developments in the Nordic Council, not least in climate and environmental issues, and in research and innovation. We have a lot to learn from cooperation in these areas, and it is important to follow-up work on concrete actions. I want to pay particular attention to what I was about earlier in the article, to get better cooperation when it comes to transport, where we have a lot to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e174	The Nordic Council is an unusually important joint arena for Nordic parliamentarians, and it has strong support from the Centre Party. Despite differences in relation both to the European Union and NATO, citizens naturally feel a strong community. The Nordic Association is an example of an organisation that does a good job and ensures a continuous dialogue on the situation and challenges for our countries. The biggest challenge now facing the Nordic countries – and therefore also Nordic cooperation – is that we are in a financial crisis. In the introduction to Report. St. 6 for 2009–2010 states that the traditional differences between countries are decreasing as a result of globalisation. It's a truth with great exceptions. Norway is the strongest. Compared to the rest of Europe and the Nordic countries, where we have more embarrassing economic conditions, there is a lot of at stake. The reason for these embarrassing economic conditions is long and historical, among other things. through the allocation of property rights and associated obligations, through a political majority which has ensured an economic priority for the benefit of the many, through an economic, social and political culture, so that it ends up with a completely different security from that of the rest of Europe. It's part of the Nordic welfare model. With the demanding economic development that we are experiencing today, there is a danger that differences between the Nordic countries will also increase. Among other things, unemployment in Sweden is now almost four times as high as in Norway. For people elected in Norway, and in the Nordic countries, the main task today is to ensure value creation in business and thus to secure a working life where the Nordic countries have much lower unemployment rates than the rest of Europe and to a far greater extent agile economic conditions. Thus, the main direct signals of danger and challenges for the Nordic region are related to employment and business. Among our countries, the development of Iceland is the most difficult. Developments in the Baltic region also have major consequences. While developments in Iceland are widely known, developments in the Baltic region are not yet known, and there are going to be more problems. The countries that were at the forefront of the economic liberalisation experiment in our neighbourhood — Iceland and the Baltic States — are in difficulty, and it is in the Nordic interest to contribute to a stable development for those who are now struggling most. Sweden and Finland are most closely linked to and traditional ties to the Baltic region, while Norway, Denmark and the Faeroe Islands are most closely linked to Iceland. It is now a fact that there will be a referendum on the Icesave agreement on Iceland. The date is after the last notifications at the end of February. Norway has chosen to play an active role in sewing together a common Nordic approach to Iceland, under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund. The latest developments in Iceland, with the Icelandic President saying no to the Icesave agreement, have been met with strong reactions from several countries. The international requirement is that Iceland follow up the loan obligations previously set up. A total Icelandic everything wants to follow up on its obligations, but there is disagreement in Iceland about what the obligations involve in money. This makes Iceland’s situation and Iceland’s situation today – after the President has said no – extra demanding. So today's situation in Iceland has changed and requires more than before. The country’s debt level is extremely high and threatens Iceland’s business and working life, and not least Iceland’s welfare system, which is one of the Nordic countries’ trademarks – safe conditions for citizens who need an active country for a difficult time. It is in Norway’s interest that Iceland is given the opportunity to work out of the deep economic crisis in which the financial acrobatic experiment has brought them up, in a way that is realistic — and I would stress realistically — where the Icelandic people have to take a responsibility that is becoming enormous. Many in Norway ask whether Norway can act towards Iceland as the European Commission says it will act towards Greece, which is also in great economic difficulties. In a situation where Iceland can become increasingly isolated, it is important that Norway takes the lead in establishing a real policy platform for long-term solidarity between Norway and Iceland. It's important that we show an outstretched hand. Compared to the State pension fund – the large foreign activity on international exchanges in an extremely turbulent time, this will be a suitable brotherly gesture from Norway to Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e195	Nordic cooperation has a long history, and we Nordics have many and close links with our Nordic neighbours. I would therefore like to first address the very difficult situation in which our Icelandic friends have come up with. I am very pleased with what the representative Lundteg takes up in his contribution related to the financial crisis, which does not frame Norway as hard as our Nordic brothers in Iceland. Several of their financial institutions had expanded strongly abroad, and when they broke out, it created a national economic crisis. The Icelandic banking crisis is the biggest crisis, relative to the size of the country, which some country has ever experienced. In 2007, the three largest banks in Iceland raised loans corresponding to around nine times the country’s annual production of goods and services. The Icelandics will spend many years paying off the debts left by the bank collapse, even though the values in the arc will give the Icelandics back two-thirds of this sum. In order for Iceland to meet its obligations to customers in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, the Icelandic Government, through the Icesave agreement, has assumed a liability of approximately one hundred thousand dollars for each Icelander. Now the situation is acute because the Icelandic President will not approve the agreement and will send the cases out to a referendum. I'm worried about the situation. The IMF, the Nordic countries, Russia, Poland and the Faeroe Islands have lent Iceland about $5 billion to help the country import essential basic products such as food and fuel. These payments are paid in portions, and a lot of the payments are left. If Iceland now says no to the Icesave agreement, the IMF will probably stop the payments. I would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Foreign Minister whether Norway will do as an IMF and stop helping Icelanders if they refuse to pay the Icesave debt, or if Norway can choose a different line and show more solidarity with our Icelandic brothers than the IMF would possibly do. I thought the words from Lundtegen about an outstretched hand are important to take with me, and I want to challenge the foreign minister on this. The Christian People's Party will further develop the good cooperation we have in the Nordic region and use the Nordic Channel in our work on other challenges in European context. In meeting globalisation, Nordic cooperation must focus strongly on the challenges of climate, environment, energy, research, innovation and barriers between Nordic countries. When it comes to frontier barriers, I will join the words of the case-speaker, but I will also refer to the plural note from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the Inner. 125 S. We must not only work to build up old barriers, but also do what we can to prevent new ones from emerging. as a result of the implementation of new EU directives. Together with the Right, the Christian People's Party also has a minority comment on language policy. He is important not only in school, but also in other areas, such as media and cultural policy. Better understanding of our neighboring languages is important with the great interrelationship we now have across the Nordic borders. Otherwise, from the Christian People's Party's side, we have a special commitment to support the work of democratisation in Belarus. It would be nice if we from the Nordic side could take advantage of our secrets to help bring about democracy there. For its part, the Christian People's Party is in contact with Christian Democrats in Belarus. For us who live in a well-established democracy, it is the right to see our colleagues in a neighbouring European country denied a completely elementary right they have – the right to set up a party of their own. A real democracy has led the opposition to respect its fundamental democratic rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e216	This is the first time I discuss Nordic issues in Stortinget, and I look forward to good cooperation with the representatives on these issues. Nordic cooperation spans a wide range of fields, and new dynamics have been introduced in recent years into the Nordic meetings. Thorvald Stoltenberg's report has focused on possible areas of cooperation in several fields. The initiative of the Prime Ministers on globalisation has brought more vitality into the cooperation of the Nordic Council of Ministers. This reflects the role of the Nordic region as an important region, both economically, politically and culturally. Without going to go into it more closely now, I would like to stress that cooperation with the neighbouring regions of the Nordic region is very important. This applies to North-West Russia and the Baltic Sea region, but also westwards. Prime Ministers have provided the overall leadership for a renewed Nordic joint effort to meet the challenges of globalisation. The aim is to vitalize cooperation and make the Nordic region visible in a globalised world. The first focus was on research, innovation, climate, energy and the environment, and other areas have subsequently emerged. These measures are enshrined in the various Councils of Ministers. The Globalisation Initiative shall not be an isolated process but shall provide new dynamics to the traditional Nordic cooperation areas. Now there is also health and well-being. This is intended to promote health and quality of life and empowerment in an inclusive working life. I am concerned that we are going to take advantage of the benefit that would be if the Nordic countries could extend the already close cooperation within the relevant Councils of Ministers in areas such as health, social issues, industry and knowledge. The Nordic countries are good at this, but all also face challenges in these areas. Here we can achieve added value when establishing cooperation projects in specific areas. Frontier barriers have been the subject of today, and this is a very topical issue. Many of these we may have to live with to some extent, but obstacles must be removed where possible. For me, it is particularly important to avoid new barriers arising unintentionally because national legislation and the implementation of EU directives have not taken sufficient account of the barrier aspect. In this context, as others have done, let me mention the Border Obstacle Forum, which has made a fine effort to ensure that relevant matters are dealt with in the respective professional bodies. Drivers are needed in individual cases, and the Border Barrier Forum has shown great commitment. This work should be continued because it has helped us to find solutions to many individual issues. A study conducted by the University of Lund points out that the population of the Nordic region is having bigger and larger problems of understanding each other, and perhaps even with concern it is that this is especially true of young people. English has become the language of youth, and young people may not be so conscious of the benefit of maintaining the Nordic community. We have to work on this. Both the language convention, which is now being revised, and the language declaration are important instruments. The declaration shall form the basis for a comprehensive, long-term and effective language policy effort. I would like to highlight a common Nordic language campaign to be launched by the now drenched Icelandic Presidency and the new Danish in the Nordic Council of Ministers later this winter. Here we will especially try to reach children and young people with competitions and events that appeal to the different age groups. Many of the technical councils and institutions within the Council of Ministers will participate. Nordic courses have also been started in educational guidance for primary school teachers who want to introduce students to neighbouring countries. With the Nordic community, we mean the Scandinavian languages, but I would also like to stress the importance of having a common Sami cultural and language area in Norway, Sweden and Finland. In 2009, Iceland held the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It was, as we know, not the easiest year for the Icelandics, but the Presidency was accomplished in an excellent way. It was an activity and a drive in the work that I can applaud. Now Denmark has taken over. All Nordic countries individually have a broad international commitment. Nordic cooperation provides an additional dimension with common Nordic values and priorities in many areas ranging from gender to climate. I look forward to continuing the active Norwegian line of Nordic cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers. The parliamentary anchoring of Nordic cooperation is essential, and as I said, I am delighted to cooperate closely with the Nordic Council delegation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e237	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e240	As the Council of State said, she is new to this job as Minister of Cooperation. And there's a lot of possibilities. It gives opportunities to look at things with new glasses, think new and stand freer in relation to what has happened before. At least when I talk to a lot of voters, party-confidential, even colleagues here in the house, I experience that you're wondering what exactly comes out of Nordic cooperation. I also believe, as I said in my first post, that very many of our citizens – in all Nordic countries – have uncleared what concretely comes out of this cooperation. I was going to ask the Council of State if she has clear thoughts and ideas about how we can put this into practice and make it more understandable to our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e246	I can confirm that I think it is an exciting task to have been given the Nordic Minister of Cooperation. In my time as Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health, I worked on many Nordic issues, and I clearly saw that we had great benefit in doing things together, because we are relatively small countries, all of us, where we have the benefit of being able to pull each other. However, I agree with the representative that it is important that we focus on informing our citizens about the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers and the results we achieve. That's why I think we need to continue using the new information channels, and in particular focus on young people to get an understanding of what Nordic cooperation is. I also look forward to working closely with the Nordic Association, which is an important source of information, in order to bring understanding of Nordic cooperation to people who are not working on such matters in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e251	It was a pleasure to hear that the Council of State spent some time talking about language. The Scandinavian community of languages is perhaps the most important glue we have in Nordic cooperation and Nordic understanding. There is then, as the Council of State also mentioned in its statement, the Nordic language declaration is absolutely central. Now it is that the declaration is not a supranational treaty. It only indicates a job that countries undertake to do. One important point is that each country should draw up an action plan for the Nordic-related language work. I would like to ask the Council of State what she thinks about the work – where it says it. If she could say anything about it, it would be fine, but at least it would be nice if she could say something about what kind of thoughts she has in the future regarding such an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e256	I agree that it is important that we focus on the Nordic language, and I am particularly concerned that we also have it in the education process. This is why the new report on the role of teachers also said something about the need for Norwegian in the new teacher training to reflect the curriculum's demands for knowledge of Nordic language and Nordic literature. Now, when we're going to get a new elementary school teacher education, this will be important in the curriculum work that's to be done after that big-school report. With regard to the specific question of how far we have come to follow up this action plan, I must be allowed to come back to it. It's not under my department's responsibility. It's under the Department of Knowledge. I would like to be allowed to come back to how far we have come with this work on an appropriate occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e263	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the work before Nordic cooperation and say that she made a good contribution. I'm glad someone's recording what's going on in language cooperation. I also fully support the campaigns taken by the Council of State in its article, but it is a language work that comes under the education sector. My question is: does the Council of State see that language cooperation can be extended even within other sectors? I'm thinking about the cultural sector. I'm thinking about the media sector. And I'm thinking about the possibilities that the web now offers. In this way, a completely different possibility is given for Nordic cooperation. Let me give you an example. For many, it would be easier to go to a website that has Danish as a language, than one that has English as a language, because the knowledge and proximity of other Nordic languages are greater. My question is: do you see an expanded linguistic cooperation in other sectors outside the education sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e270	I think it's important to promote Nordic language understanding, especially within what goes on culture. Some of the new initiatives taken include: in Nordic film. I think that's an important element of the work that helps to increase language understanding. I'm absolutely sure that in a lot of areas we can make use of each other's language in a much better way than before. As far as border barriers are concerned, as I said, I am concerned that we contribute so that we do not create new ones when, among other things, we do not create new ones. introduce new EU directives. I am absolutely sure that if we, for example, can link more to translations made in Scandinavian languages, it will be easier for many to get involved in, among others. issues relating to EU directives to be incorporated into Norwegian languages. I think there might be a lot of ways to do this. I will include that work in the follow-up to the language declaration and any skill plan related thereto.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e277	I would like to follow up where the representative Hareide finished, that is, how wide it is natural to anchor the Scandinavian language work. We see that it is an increasingly Scandinavian/Nordic thinking, both within ownership and within business. A development of a single market – then I believe not only a formal single market, but also a practical operational single market – I think it will be of great importance to the linguistic one. If we do manage to involve language policy in economic life, in business, I think it will give a completely different dynamics and a completely different momentum than if we reserve the language policy to be cultural policy or educational policy. My question is, could the Council of State expect to invite you, for example: Is the main business organisation or the social partners involved involved in a language work that adds to an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e286	I agree that it is important that we have a common Nordic language understanding. I think we'll lose a lot on the day we have to use English as a working language in Nordic meetings. Therefore, it is important in all areas that we contribute to our Nordic language competence. It is certainly also important in the field of business. So it would be natural for me, in the light of the debate we have had here today, to discuss the kind of issues when we meet with the NHO and other business organisations and employee organisations. I must be allowed to come back to how I might involve those organisations in the further work on Nordic language and increased language understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e291	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e294	It is a pleasure as Minister of Foreign Affairs to participate in the debate on Nordic cooperation. When we had a debate in the Nordic Council this autumn, I invited the Stoltenberg report to be debated in the national parliaments. It is a pleasure that several of the representatives in this room have taken up the Stoltenberg report, got into it and got involved in it. It is an important driving force for cooperation in the Nordic region. I agree with the representative Foss that there is room for deepening Nordic cooperation. I don't see the room getting bigger if the EU strives to unite on its common foreign policy. I believe that it is always an advantage for us in the Nordic countries to be able to do well in Europe, economically and politically. Many conditions in our part of Europe call for increased cooperation between the Nordic countries. The language debate here is one example. I experience many examples in my everyday life where the North is the starting point: relations with Russia in the North, border cooperation with Russia, the North in international cooperation, relations with the G20 countries, the UN, a number of such issues. And the North is a glue in the regional councils of the North, the Arctic Council, the Barents Council and the Baltic Council, where we take over the Presidency on 1 July this year. When Denmark and Norway are leading countries in the debate on the Polish regime – we will also be at a ministerial meeting of the five polar states, the coastal states, in Canada in March – Denmark and Norway will work closely together. The Stoltenberg report invited to see 10–15 years in advance. It was 30-40 pst. more ambitious than a government can normally carry out in the year in which it is provided. It was the mission to Stoltenberg. Therefore, the report will be on the agenda of most of the meetings we will have in the coming years. No proposals were rejected. We're implementing several of them. Together with my Danish colleague in Copenhagen two days ago, I had the opportunity to go through a series of proposals. Among other things, we agreed that Norway and Denmark should seriously go through the entire foreign representation to see if we can do more together — an example of this. Then to Iceland. We must show solidarity with our brothers in Iceland. We've got close contact. We have close political dialogue, and we follow up as best we can. The Icelandic Minister of Finance is today in Oslo in conversation with his Norwegian colleague. It's an expression for this. I agree with the representative, Lundtigen, who says that we must now support Iceland so that they have the opportunity to work out the disaster in a realistic way. He also mentioned a realistic platform for long-term Norwegian-Icelandic cooperation. I fully share that ambition. Then we'll remember that there was no natural disaster that hit Iceland. It was a man-made situation, promoted by the financial world and banking through year-on-year development. The strategy we have to follow is, therefore, that we decently enable Iceland to work out of this mess. Iceland can count on Norway. In order to succeed, the Norwegian Government considers that an international framework around the Iceland economic recovery programme is crucial. Norway alone cannot, should not, lift this alone. But it's through a framework, anchored in the IMF, well supported by the Nordics and other related countries, that Iceland can work through it. That is why we have supported the Icelandic government in the laborious reconstruction work of the government, and Iceland can count on our support further. We note the signals from the Icelandic Prime Minister that these plans are firm, even though we are now waiting for a possible referendum, probably at the end of February, about this element relating to the so-called Icesave agreement. However, Norway will – and this has been stated very clearly by the Stortinget when it gave support to the loan package that came – be very careful about the IMF's arrangements for Iceland, and there is also security, stability, so that Iceland can regain the confidence that it deserves through its hardworking people, and which is crucial for the success of the programme. We have a great deal of understanding that this has been a difficult case in Iceland, and that the difficulties and digestion of this challenge are not over. It is therefore important to have close contact at all levels with Iceland, which we have on government teams, but also parliamentary and through other channels. But as I said, I think it is important to stress that support for Iceland takes place in the context of international cooperation, that the IMF is an important foundation for what Iceland is going to do, and from the Norwegian side, we are therefore committed to lending to Iceland. Close contact shall be maintained with the other Nordic countries in this respect and it is important for Iceland itself and for the relationship with other countries that they are able to comply with their international obligations, including the EEA obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e316	The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the Baltic Sea cooperation, and the three Baltic countries are now all members of the EU, and they are members of NATO. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the extent to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs sees further integration of the Baltic countries in Nordic cooperation, and the long-term extension of Nordic cooperation – the work of the Nordic Council being extended – by three members, from five to eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e322	Since the early 1990s, there has been an exciting development in the so-called five plus three-circuit to which the representative refers. I worked in a different function in the government system when this work started, and we were visited by parliamentarians and government members from the three Baltic countries to the Nordic Council, and then there was a rather fine network of meetings between state councils, government members and also parliamentarians between the five and between the three. I think the Nordics should be like the Nordics. I think the Nordic Council will continue to be for the five Nordic countries. But I think the Nordic Council, which is so established and anchored, can have open doors to five plus three, and also to other constellations. I heard the representative Hareide mention Belarus. There I agree that the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Nordic dimension, is an interesting framework for working towards such a country. However, I believe that we should stick to the Nordic bottom shelf, but in accordance with Nordic traditions we have openness, especially in the direction of the Baltic countries, to which we are strongly attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e327	The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the very interesting Stoltenberg report. Did I see the Minister for Foreign Affairs right when I understood it so that the initiative was taken that this report would be subjected to a treatment in Stortinget? That's my one question. The second is in enhanced cooperation, which has been widely discussed, also in some specific areas. Is there any new initiatives in the field of extended Nordic cooperation and coordination in the area of assistance, and also in the field of the EEAS, on which the representative Foss was involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e332	The fact that the Stoltenberg report is to be discussed in Stortinget, it has probably not been taken into account, but that it is the subject of a complete and individual debate on its proposals, I have wanted to welcome it very much, and it may be natural to come back to it in my foreign policy statement and on other occasions – we are doing it here today. And I think it's important that the Nordic Council continues to focus on the follow-up to the Stoltenberg report, debate it and in a way hold governments responsible for progress. As regards assistance, there is also a long-standing Nordic tradition of cooperation between aid authorities and, in many areas, close coordination between Nordic countries in the implementation of assistance. Health cooperation can be provided with a country coordinated by one Nordic country where the other Nordic countries contribute. It is not specifically mentioned in the Stoltenberg report. The EEAS is specifically mentioned and the administrations are closely involved. I can mention that in a few weeks I will open the Norwegian Embassy with the Crown Prince in Astana, Kazakhstan. There Finland wants an office, in the Nordic Embassy, and that's how we're going to work more and see a lot more of, I think, in the years to come. It's also good for the Nordic profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e339	I am well pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his response to the problems in Iceland. I feel a clear signal that we should have a solidarity, that we should be involved and take responsibility. Yes, it's true that this is a man-made problem, but there are a few very few institutions and few people who have seen Iceland in this situation, and we also have other issues that are man-made, the climate, that require us to take action and act. My question was that if Iceland now says no to the Icesave agreement, the IMF will probably stop payments to Iceland. Will the attitude of solidarity which the foreign minister places on this stand, even if Iceland says no to the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e344	This is an interesting debate – who was responsible? So it was for many years decisions that built up a situation that many warned against, so I want to say that it is the Icelandic society and the Icelandic political system that made it possible for the situation to arise. Therefore, Iceland must also be given the opportunity to work out of the situation. For understandable reasons, I don't want to wonder what will be Norway's position after a possible no in a referendum – I think that the other question is completely open. What I can confirm is that if Iceland works according to the intentions of the government that the IMF has now taken on board, and that the first part of the loan has been disbursed, Norway will continue to believe that this is a good basis. But I remember, and I invite you to read again, the decision of the Stortinges when we made this loan available, which is quite clear when it comes to stressing Iceland's obligations to settle separately. We have to take that with us. But we're going to do what we can to support the Icelandic government in the very bold program they've now set out to implement, and we hope that the IMF and the countries that are involved in lending will also support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e351	Those who have participated in Nordic cooperation see that it is very focused on the Baltic Sea region. That's natural, because a majority of the Nordic countries are encircling this area. At the same time, we see that there's a lot of interesting happening in the Arctic. The Nordic Council also has work to do with the Arctic. Norway has a significant role to play in getting northwards towards North-West Russia, and towards what is happening in the Arctic. Much is being done in the fields of energy extraction, fisheries, the environment, transport, etc. We see that there are many actors – including: Russia, the United States and Canada – who want to play a role in what is now to happen in the future in the Arctic. Does the Council of State feel that the Nordic region has a sufficient leadership role in relation to developments in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e358	As I said, it is exciting that the Nordic countries are in all these councils: the Arctic Council, the Barents Council and the Baltic Council. In the case of the Arctic, there are two Nordic coastal states: Denmark-Greenland and Norway. We have a special role in responsibility in the Arctic. And it's not the North against the other three countries that the representative mentioned, but it's Norway, Denmark, Greenland, Russia, Canada and the United States. They have met in coastal State context in 2008, and will meet again in 2010 to discuss the specific responsibilities. I am quite sure that Norway and Denmark, supported by the other Nordic countries when we meet in the Arctic Council, will set the agenda. We have knowledge and commitment, and we're going to continue to have that as ambition. Then it's important that the Nordics can act with some form of consistency in all of these counsels. But I would say that the Nordic Council of Ministers should not make the Arctic a main area of activity; it should do so, and Norway is present in both.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e365	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e370	The members of the delegation have been very active in the work of the Nordic Council. Let me also praise the important work that the Nordic Association stands for. The work on removing barriers between Nordic countries is a high priority in the Nordic Council and the delegation, and we have a close cooperation with the Nordic Border Obstacle Forum, as mentioned by the rapporteur. However, the conclusion on the removal of border barriers is too often that it is not possible to change the necessary rules and thus remove important obstacles. The delegation has therefore asked the Prime Minister to take up with his Nordic colleagues the need to take political decisions with clear instructions to the Office regarding the removal of frontier barriers and the prevention of new developments. I am pleased that the Government in its communication says that the departments have been instructed to pay particular attention to this in the preparation of new laws and regulations, in particular when transposing the EU directive into Norwegian law. Another problem is that the financial crisis has created great movements in the Nordic labour market, and we see that residents from our neighbouring country are being abandoned and returning home. The Border Obstacle Forum notes that in some cases the rights of these workers are unclear. The delegation has raised the matter with the Minister of Cooperation, and I hope that the Government will find a solution so that the individual employee does not end up between two chairs. The Nordic Council and the delegation have developed good parliamentary cooperation with Russia, both centrally and with North-West Russia. I recall that the northern dimension is equivalent cooperation between the EU, Russia, Iceland and Norway. The next parliamentary forum for the northern dimension is expected to be in Tromsø in February 2011. The delegation also plays an active role in the Nordic Council's cooperation with the Baltic Parliamentary Assembly. The Baltic countries have been hit hard by the financial crisis, and I therefore believe that the links between our areas can be further strengthened, but then after today's pattern, as we have heard earlier in the debate. Cooperation with the countries of the east is not at the expense of the countries of the west. It is a very good cooperation with the Western Nordic Council, which is the cooperation body between Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e387	The Nordic Minister for Cooperation was at the crossroads on the issue of the content of the Nordic language cooperation and the significance of the Nordic language declaration. That's good. I hope it's a theme we'll follow up on in time, because language is important. It's the glue itself in Nordic cooperation. Unfortunately, we see that the Nordic languages evolve somewhat apart at a time when you might think that would be the basis for the opposite. It is simply about the influence of English and the whole issue that is emerging from globalisation and language. Language experts estimate that of the 6,700 languages that are expected to be spoken in the world today, maybe half will be gone in a few decades. Then it's important for us to take those signals. It will be important in this work to have a wide-based action plan involving the full range of societal groups, and it is important to be concrete and relevant. In these days we have a case that I think it could be easy to take on and use as an example. It is the initiative of the Language Council in the field of computer language research. Data is a new field to which all Nordic countries have a linguistic work relative. All Nordic countries have a language council working towards a technology group in which businesses and industries are involved, to look at how to adapt the computer language to the national language. In Norway, unfortunately, the Council working on technology terminology went bankrupt in 2001, and since then we've got a little behind on it. I hope that there is something the Ministry of Culture will handle and get in place. In any case, this work is also anchored in industry through IBM, Microsoft and Opera Norway, which all three are involved in this work. This is a field that we should obviously coordinate, at least with the other Scandinavian countries. It's a shame if we don't even have a new area, where we don't have long language traditions to support ourselves, we'd be able to achieve at least some degree of linguistic community – and get the Scandinavian languages to evolve in parallel. We will come back to languages, both in cultural policy and in education policy, and I would like to remind the Government that Nordic language work is more than education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e400	Insurance and class societies have observed an increase in the number of worldwide shipbuilding accidents. The coastal works are concerned about the accident development of ships in coastal waters. At a lecture in the Maritimt Forum on 26 October 2009, the Coastal Director pointed out that one had more than 100 basic supports along the Norwegian coast each year. Increases in maritime traffic are expected in the coming years, particularly in relation to the oil and gas activities in the northern regions, including: from the Russian Shtokman field. In addition, there is an increased interest in establishing commercial shipping through the Arctic Sea, either through the revitalisation of the northern maritime route or through a new transpolar direct route. There is therefore a need to look at possible measures to improve maritime safety and the ability to provide assistance to ships in distress in the northern sea areas. The progress party has for a long time highlighted the importance of a significant increase in maritime safety in Norwegian waters. Maritime safety in the north is a major challenge, not just for Norway, but for all Nordic countries, including Russia. Using the East-West pass, a transport from the Far East to Europe will be able to take 30 pst. faster than with today's route, which will be of great pleasure to all those in that industry. The shipping company Beluga has already made use of the route from May to September, in the summer months. The northern regions are international waters. It is a responsibility for all Nordic countries – and not least Russia – to make the Northern Sea Route safe by taking proactive measures as monitoring, so that when maritime emergencies occur, there is a readiness to take action and save lives and protect property. It will also be a task for all countries in the Barents region to take responsibility for a new sea route through the Arctic Ocean where one can safely transport goods and where one is able to maintain overall maritime safety and oil protection when an emergency occurs in the northern regions. This can only be done by introducing a global policy framework – by setting rules for ropeboats, how to implement monitoring, etc. The Nordic Council must take this challenge seriously and bring together all countries in the Barents region, including Russia. Getting concrete cooperation with Russia is very important in this situation, and I would ask the Nordic Council to look at the three northernmost states – Nordland, Troms and Finnmark – which already have 20 years of experience in cooperating with Russia, both man-to-man and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e424	Climate change causes ice to melt and make the Arctic sea more accessible. With increased availability, we will also get more human activity in the area. We would like, among other things: increasing the use of the rich food resources and natural resources in the Arctic and increasing tourism. This offers a number of opportunities for the communities in the north, but it also demands that we establish common driving rules that take care of the Arctic environment. In recent years we have seen an explosive increase in the number of ships operating in the Arctic. We're talking about fishing vessels, ships carrying goods, and cruise ships. According to the Arctic Council's report on shipping in the Arctic, in 2004 there were 6,000 individual ships operating in this area. The problem with this is that we do not have the international regulation in place to make demands on the ships and the crew on board. We also do not have the necessary infrastructure in place in the form of ports and rescue services. I am pleased that a working group has been set up under the Arctic Council to negotiate a search and rescue agreement in the Arctic. In the large seas and with the very limited rescue capacity currently available, such an agreement is really necessary. In Antarctica, we have seen accidents with ships where good weather has caused us to avoid the major disasters. We cannot trust the same luck in our areas, and a cooperation agreement must be in place as soon as possible. With the cold in this country just these days, it's easier to imagine the magnitude and difficulty of a rescue operation in any accident in these areas. I am asking for pressure to be put on the work of putting in place a binding code of the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, for ships and crews sailing in ice-cold waters. Today, there are no different requirements for ships or crews whether on a cruise in the Caribbean or around Svalbard. It is clear that there must be other requirements to move between icebergs than to travel in the Mediterranean Sea. While cruise traffic is a challenge, there are also opportunities for tourism in this area. But it must be done in cooperation with the indigenous population in these areas. The Arctic consists of clean, pristine nature with many opportunities for unique natural experiences, and if we take advantage of this properly, it will be for the best for the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e437	I am quite convinced that most of the citizens of the whole of the Nordic region expect their parliamentarians to be very ‘hand-on’ on these issues and to demand the development of Nordic cooperation. Today’s debate has shown that we have by no means reached the end of any kind of road – rather on the contrary. The case rapporteur illustrated this in an excellent way in his speech, and even though he took a turn around Jan Erik Vold's need to get faster between Oslo and Stockholm, it only illustrates how difficult this East-West thinking is, because it is also in the Nordic – and perhaps most of the Norwegian – thinking that you are acting in the north-south direction. We're missing out on as many opportunities in Nordic cooperation as we've chosen to put ourselves in position. We have not put in place any kind of uniform Nordic arena for interaction in development, business and business, just as it has been seen to have been successful in Europe. In fact, we are building an even stronger border with Norway than we see doing in other countries, in our neighbouring countries and also outside the Nordic countries, where borders are being demolished and border barriers are being reduced. The word ‘border barriers’ has in many ways been the review melody of today’s debate, understandable enough. There is no doubt that before we take the break when the Minister of Cooperation says that obstacles have to be removed where possible, we really have to ask ourselves the question: Yes, do we want to – do we? Are we willing to start pecking in the tax, tax and customs fields, which are the main obstacles to developing interaction and thinking towards the east-west? I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated that we are going to have a debate on the Stoltenberg report – the excellent report that I believe deserves a wide-ranging treatment in Stortinget. I am also pleased that more people have been concerned about the need for the Nordic countries to have active cooperation and dialogue with the Baltic nations. The Baltic Sea is probably the world's most polluted sea area, right in the middle of our neighbourhood. The impact of the financial crisis on the Baltic nations is quite brutal. This also has something to do with security policy issues. Let me just say after four years in the Nordic Council that some of the most important experience from there is the network created by parliamentary contact and dialogue. I think that's valuable to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e450	I think the perspective that the previous speaker, the representative of Kristiansen, had on the question of the frontier barriers and our willingness to – let me say this – integrate us with our neighbouring country is very important. I think the issue will come up more concretely on a case-by-case basis, and not when we are discussing it on a general basis. But I believe, as most people here, that the importance of Nordic cooperation is important to preserve the Nordic identity and to develop a common identity to defend our interests in the world society and in Europe. I also believe that developing Nordic cooperation in the direction of removing border barriers, strengthening our culture and strengthening inter-peoples cooperation are policy fields that people will immediately have a closer relationship with than with the major foreign policy positions. But I think both are important. And then I would like to highlight the opportunity we have through Nordic cooperation to have contact with parliamentarians from particular EU countries. We had a debate here after the Foreign Minister's statement on EU and EEA issues, where one of the very things that was highlighted was that we in the Nordic region, with developments as they progress in Europe, must have stronger cooperation with joint parliamentary friends in the EU countries. It is important that we in the Nordic Council tighten up the use of resources and have stricter guidelines on what we spend money on and how we spend money. I would like to say two words about the Environment and Resource Committee, where I am a member. There we are now going to address and discuss the position of the EU's fisheries policy and the Nordic Council on this. This is an incredibly important issue for Norway. This is an example of how we can use the Nordic Council to promote our national interests and the interests of the region. There will be a seminar in Copenhagen on 27 January in connection with the Nordic Council, and I hope we will also see many from our nutrition committee there. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the parliamentary Baltic Sea cooperation, the Baltic Sea Conference. These are also important contacts, because here we go beyond what is the Nordic border, and we have contact with, among other things. Russia and the Baltic countries. What becomes a priority area in 2010 is maritime policy, and more people here have mentioned how important it is that we also have cooperation with Russia. The Norwegian Presidency in parallel government cooperation is becoming important to us. I believe that Norway must build its presidency here on the final parliamentary document of the BSPC Conference. It is very important that Norwegian government members also attend the conference in Åland in August 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e463	There are many areas in which the Nordic countries can achieve more together, including the challenges of maintaining and further developing the Nordic models of welfare systems and health services. There will be many benefits to the Nordics applying for joint solutions, and to the extent that they benefit from each other's experience, competence and research results to a far greater extent than today. We have some common challenges in large disease groups, such as dementia, coal and diabetes, and in the care of drug users and mental health. This year's Committee on Welfare of the Nordic Councils will look at the situation of the elderly with themes such as dementia and mental health, as well as at various technical solutions that can provide safer living conditions for home-dwelling elderly and nursing. In this context, it is important to have the ethical aspect and that technical solutions in the future should not replace the need for the care and care of personnel. The government has committed itself to pursuing a policy that discourages the flow of qualified health workers from poor countries. In this context, it is important that as many as possible in working life in the Nordic countries are able to participate in the labour market, and that educational provision is much more targeted at training enough qualified health professionals. It will also be important to reduce border barriers for all those who want to live, work or take education in one of their neighbouring countries. I'm going to give a concrete example: a single mother with a child of nine months lost 150,000 kroner in social security because of the border problem. The mother moved the child across the border to Sweden and the day shift to her apprenticeship in Eastfold. The mother is a Norwegian citizen. She worked, taxed and completed her apprenticeship in Norway. She was a compulsory member of the social security system when her employer paid social security contributions in Norway, but she no longer had social security rights as a lone mother in Norway as long as she and the child lived in Sweden. The reason she did not get rights as a single mother in Sweden was because she did not work in and tax Sweden. She also lost her right to babysitting in Norway, although that is what was most right for her to get to work, when the residence address was Sweden. I took up this particular matter, and it took care of itself as an exceptional matter. But it's just one of many different cases where people don't fight against bureaucracy and give up – give up education or give up jobs, because it doesn't work. In very many cases, it is not possible to find common solutions between countries. However, work needs to be done to find harmonised solutions that ensure the safety and well-being of those who choose to live in different countries alternately. The Nordic Council suggests that there is systematic work to improve conditions, but it takes too much time. Nordic cooperation and the issues under consideration must be better anchored in the parliaments. Only then will joint efforts, cooperation and exchange of experience through the Nordic Council become more important, which will become very important in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e476	It is good that the Nordic countries cooperate closely in most areas of society — and I stress most — and that the Government places this on the agenda. It is important to remember that the relationship between us is geographical, historical and cultural. We have a lot of common features. We are parliamentary democracies, we have a fairly similar social structure, we have a great deal of community in language and literature and share a common cultural heritage in a broad sense – which has been common to many. The Nordic community is not a community built around a bloc of power or a fixed international organisation whose primary task is to allow countries to speak with one voice to the rest of the world. The Nordic community is a community of values, a social model or vision that we are trying to realize in our Nordic states. That's why it becomes primarily through everyday work and the patient reform we profile the Nordic region and give the cooperation content. Then it is clear that in many areas the Nordic countries can achieve much more together than individually, among other things. in the case of climate, environment, business, transport and not least border barriers, which many have encountered. The work on building down the barriers to the border is an old thing. It usually creates a great deal of commitment, as the debate today has also shown. A lot of work is done in this connection, but there are still obstacles. Today, Nordic citizens cross the boundaries of working, doing business or studying. Many face obstacles that create challenges in everyday life. That's why it's important that we build them down as far as possible, as many people have talked about before today. The Border Obstacle Forum is important in this way, but I would also like to mention the Moroculian Border Service, which is carrying out extensive information work. They do a good job of facilitating people and businesses that will have economic activity and growth on both sides of the border. In business, Nordic cooperation will also become important in the future, including the following: in the case of innovation, creative industries, travel and, in particular, combining economic growth with environmentally friendly investments. In the case of transport, it is no longer a formalised part of Nordic cooperation, but it is no less important for that reason. Nordic government cooperation in the transport sector focuses on promoting efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport and traffic in the Nordic and neighbouring regions. In this context, I will also focus on the communication between our capitals. Here we really have an opportunity to do something. For example, the train can clearly compete with the plane on the Oslo-Stockholm route. Unfortunately, the train connection is too bad today, but we have to be able to do something about it. I am pleased that both the case rapporteur and several others have been involved in this in their contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e493	I am pleased with the contributions of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and our common ambition to act towards Iceland so that it ensures both stability and the necessary solidarity. The situation on Iceland is now such that there is a risk that there will be a no to the Icesave Act at the referendum on 20 February. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, one cannot foreshadow what would then be natural Norwegian behaviour. However, Norway must clearly stress that Iceland must abide by its international obligations and, if necessary, support solutions through international dispute resolution mechanisms, because there is no need for Icelanders to be in a position to do so. However, within this framework, what Norway should and can do to support Iceland bilaterally is the question. Those who have had power and capital in Iceland have become blinded by greed capitalism. Now most of the Icelanders have to pay for this. The whole of society is in a deep crisis, much deeper than what has yet come to the attention of the Norwegian people in public. Norway is a small nation. Our strength has been that we have the ability to stand together in difficult times and therefore have been able to promise together. We too are weakened by the financial crisis, but we have room for action. We can pick. Norway is involved in development and aid work all over the world, and we cannot stand as passive spectators to the needs of Icelanders. We have to stretch out our hands – and so make our choice. Both the former losses of the Pension Fund and last year's adventurous gains came from the financial crisis. The Pension Fund is our common property, and it's my opinion that converting a finite, small portion of the Pension Fund into a loan to Iceland on favorable but real economic terms will be a good choice. Such a loan would be a handshake to another small nation, to a brother-and-sister. It will also be a choice that is consistent with our own – and I stress our own – real policy interest. It will strengthen the basis for long-term solidarity between two nations facing major challenges in the long term. It will strengthen Nordic cooperation. But I would like to stress that Iceland is not facing any emergency rights. Iceland must take the costs of the choices made by the political leadership there, but the solution must be achieved in an internationally recognised way if there is a conflict with the commitments made by the financial acrobats to the Icelandic people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e502	On 22 October 2009, the Stortinget decided to establish a delegation to the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation. The delegation consists of six members and six alternates. Until then, the Stortinget was represented with one member of the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, and for the last eight years it was Hill-Marta Solberg who represented the Stortinget. Based on her experience as a long-standing leader of cooperation, and on national and international political developments, Stortinget found it right to strengthen participation in Arctic cooperation. In my opinion, that was a wise decision. In recent years, the Arctic and its northern regions have once again been given a growing place in national and international policies, and there are in particular two reasons for this. It's climate change, and it's natural resources. The Arctic is the area of rapid climate change, and the results of climate change are easily discernible. Temperature increases in the Arctic occur twice as fast as the world average, and the result is that the ice melts — the ice melts, the sea ice melts, and the permafrost tins. The consequences of this are many and serious both for humans and for animals, and in particular the indigenous people in these areas are severely affected. The picture of the polar bear clinging to the ice that melts around it has in many ways become the global picture of the climate challenges we face. I will give tribute to Minister Gahr Støre for the work he has done with the former Vice President of the United States, Al Gore, to convey the message that the ice in the Arctic is melting, to the international community. The latest scientific data on development were presented at the Copenhagen climate meeting at the latest. It is important that we who live here in the north are able to communicate to the rest of the world what is actually happening, and I think the Foreign Minister is doing well. The second factor that makes the international community look northwards is the rich natural resources that exist there. Already today, the resources — and wealth — extracted from the Arctic are enormous. There are large fish populations, there are huge oil and gas deposits and minerals, to mention the most important. President Medvedev has designated Arctic Russia as its resource base in the 21st century. Some of the background to this is the assumption that the largest undiscovered resources of oil and gas are located north of the polar circle. The rich natural resources, combined with the process of clarifying the boundaries of the continental shelf between Arctic coastal states, have led to many dramatic headlines in national and international media. This is in many ways excessively exaggerated, in my opinion. All coastal States have undertaken to comply with the rules of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in clarifying the continental shelf borders, including in the Arctic. With the significant interests we have in Norway in the north, it will continue to be important to pay great attention to what is going on there, and the strengthening of Arctic parliamentary cooperation is an important contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e513	Since both the Council of State Aasrud and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre have had their beginnings today, I think it is quite obvious that the Government prioritises Nordic cooperation. All those who have spoken in the debate also show how important that cooperation is – and not only is it important, but in many ways it is a quite unique project. Then it's like, among other things, The representative, Kielland Asmyhr, was committed to filling this important issue with content, too. Only if we parliamentarians in the Nordic region take our job in the Nordic Council seriously will it be a result for people's everyday lives in the Nordic countries. There is broad political agreement that the work of the Nordic Council should be anchored in the best possible way in the parliaments and in the specialist committees, and that we, as members of the Nordic Council, should seek to bring forward important issues and input from our own debates in Stortinget. Through the work of the Committees of the Nordic Council, it is easy to see that we have common challenges in the Nordic countries. Border barriers are mentioned by many, but also in areas such as alcohol, psychiatry, violence, child protection, education and not least the environment. We must strive to ensure that the work of the Nordic Council does not become a left-hand job. It should be attractive to be a member of the Nordic Council, but then we have to feel that we have a good overview of the job we are going to do. I want to praise our own secretariat in Stortinget, which I think is very good for helping us representatives. Moreover, I believe that the Nordic Council as an institution – if I can use that designation – has a great potential for improvement, for my own experience, at least, suggests that it takes quite a while to get to know the Nordic Council's work routines, which are very different from what we are used to. A prerequisite for doing a good job is that it is done in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e522	In recent years, trafficking in human beings has been a central theme of Nordic cooperation. Several decisions have also been taken, both in the United Nations and in the Council of Europe, with broad support. Projects have been established in the fight against trafficking in human beings, based on new guidelines for 2009-2013, approved by the Ministers for Cooperation. It is also worth mentioning that the Nordic Council of Ministers has specifically focused its efforts on trafficking in human beings and on vulnerable children and young people. Trafficking in human beings is a gross violation of human dignity and a particularly serious form of crime, which contributes to modern slave trade. Trafficking in human beings is a complex theme, and new areas of trafficking in human beings are constantly emerging. Trafficking in human beings threatens the right of victims to freedom from slavery, the right to self-determination over their own bodies, the right to freedom from humiliation, humiliation and inhumane treatment and, in the utmost consequence, the right to rule over their own lives. Trafficking in human beings appears to increase both nationally and internationally, and trafficking in human beings is estimated to have become the second largest illegal industry in the world — after trafficking in weapons. The greatest extent is trafficking in women and minors, who are lured or refugees from poor countries in the hope of a better life in the richer part of the world but end up in prostitution or other forms of exploitation. There is no doubt that poverty and demand are two particularly important causes of trafficking in human beings. It is frightening that there is a market for human trafficking in the Nordic countries today, where some people buy and exploit women and children. Poverty, war and the desire for a better life can lead to people becoming claws on human traffickers, who have discovered that there is money to earn within this market. Prostitution is mentioned, but people are also smuggled to help in typical seasonal jobs, such as berry picking, agricultural jobs, but also in cleaning, storage and construction. The Norwegian Government has prioritised the fight against trafficking in human beings, as reflected in particular by the ‘Stop Human Trafficking’, the Government’s action plan against trafficking in human beings. During the 2009 session in Stockholm at the end of October last year, the fight against trafficking in human beings was a central theme, both in the selection I am sitting in, and in a presentation by Iceland's Árni Paulus Árnason. This showed that Norway, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council share the commitment to the fight against trafficking in human beings. Reports are to be provided each year, which will keep this important policy area warm. As long as the trade in people takes place in the Nordic region, we have to make sure that the issue is always on the Nordic agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e535	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr raised the issue: what comes out of Nordic cooperation? We have to show results to the citizens in order to defend costs. This is true, but it is also an example of how what is achieved through political work is gradually taken for granted. We have had passport freedom in the Nordic region since the 1950s. We've had one common labour market since the 1950s. That's a result of Nordic cooperation. It may be necessary to remind each other – and not least the inhabitants – of that. So when we meet all the Swedish youth at restaurants, both here in Oslo and elsewhere, or at hotels, it's a result of political work in the 1950s. It is often the case that the problems are detailed, and so today there are the details, the legislation, that create problems in this free flow that we have in the Nordic region in terms of job opportunities, housing, etc. It's of course, as many have stressed, very important to build down these barriers, but I want to stress, like the Council of State, that we need to have realism around how far we can get. Some border barriers should and can certainly be removed, but some problems also relate to real differences in the laws of countries, in areas such as unemployment, parental leave, taxation and social security, and which are more demanding to be eliminated. An example, in a report from Hello Norden, is a married couple where father was employed in Norway, and mother was employed in Sweden, both live in Sweden, father does not get parental leave from Sweden because he is employed in Norway – nor from Norway because mother is in the Swedish system. One thing is to clarify which legislation should apply, at least in relation to the place of work and residence, but it may be more difficult if the legislation is different. Here we are at the heart of the law and regulation, how few countries will give up the right to decide for themselves. So if all border barriers are to be removed, the legislation has to be harmonised, so we have to be a little careful to suggest that we get there. Moreover, I think it is gratifying that, in the Nordic context, there seems to be significantly less scepticism in deepening cooperation, harmonising the legislation and thinking of a common Nordic society, where the boundaries are clearer and more noticeable on the map and not in the everyday lives of the around 25 million people living in the Nordic region – as opposed to what it is when we talk about this in a slightly larger European context. This applies both here in the hall and outside the hall. Kielland Asmyhr also mentioned that we are not able to create free trade between neighbours in the Nordic region. No, it is because our neighbours belong to the EU Customs Union, while we belong to the EFTA Customs Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e550	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 1469]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e568	The food industry is largely based on Norwegian agricultural and fisheries raw materials. While the agricultural-based part of the food industry primarily delivers to the Norwegian market, the fisheries-based part of the industry is export-oriented. Large cooperatives such as Tine and Nortura have a strong position within the agricultural sector. The food industry is the second largest industry in Norway as measured by the number of persons employed. In 2007, 46 300 people were employed in the industry. The industry's share of the value added was 1,5 pst. The food industry is located in all parts of the country. The industry is of great importance to all counties throughout the country. The food industry is Norway's second largest industry measured in employment. The meat industry accounts for about one quarter of the workforce in the industry and the fishing industry for about one fifth. Different industries differ in product, competitive and regulatory aspects. The food industry is largely based on Norwegian raw materials, which come either from agriculture or from fisheries. Companies with more than 100 employees are responsible for about 45 pst. of employment and barely half of the value of production in industry. The agricultural food industry delivers mainly to the Norwegian market. This means that it is difficult to exploit economies of scale to the same extent as for many foreign competitors. Competitions with the Norwegian food industry are often large multinational companies that can use considerable resources to establish and maintain market positions. In the agricultural part of the food industry, cooperatives such as Nortura and Tine have a strong position. The fishing industry exports most of its production and must have good competitiveness in order to have its products traded internationally. The fishing industry depends on good market access. The agricultural part of the Norwegian food industry has traditionally been considered to be home competing and with limited import competition. However, the industry has become more exposed to international competition over time. In the period 1995 to 2006, there has been more than a doubling of imports of food and drink products, while the growth of exports has been significantly lower than that of fish products. However, the industry has continued to have a domestic share of 85,6 p.m. in 2006. In particular, the industry producing and processing agricultural products, which is subject to the commodity compensation scheme, is in competition. Trade in such agricultural products is regulated in the EEA Agreement and implies that enterprises producing and processing agricultural products are more exposed to import competition than enterprises producing traditional agricultural products. This part of the food industry produces finished products such as ice cream, pizza, bakery products, chocolate, sauces and sugar confectionery. Imports of ROK products have increased steadily in recent years, from DKK 2.6 billion in 1995 to DKK 6 billion in 2007. Norwegian exports of RAK products have been stable at NOK 0.9 billion over the period. Differences in the overall level of costs, commodity prices and excise duties between countries can contribute to significant price differences in some foods and beverages. Such price differences also provide a basis for cross-border trade. For some food industries such as chocolate producers, beer and mineral water producers and the meat industry, such border trade represents a major challenge. The protectionist Norwegian agricultural policy has resulted in a costly Norwegian agriculture that has lost competitiveness for countries with less regulatory support. This has again been reflected in a wish to export from these countries, and agriculture was included for the first time in the WTO negotiations in the Uruguay Round, which started in 1986 and entered into force in 1995. The enlargement of the EU led to increased liberalisation pressures, for example by the loss of New Zealand’s market in the United Kingdom when it became an EU member. This led to full liberalisation of agriculture in New Zealand, which has created a strong competitiveness for New Zealand agriculture and a desire for market access for meat as a counterpart to market access in other areas negotiated in the WTO, such as industrial products. This type of agricultural policy has been one of the biggest nightmares in the EU — they want to spend less of their total budget on agriculture. Sweden adopted deregulation of agriculture in 1989, i.e. before becoming a member of the EU. In Finland, there was a hard debate on agricultural policy at the beginning of the 1990s. What Finland did was to strengthen the industry by softening rigid production and market regulation that restricted competition and prevented the industry from developing. The time of the conclusion of the main agricultural agreement was when Norway was still in a situation where it was about producing enough food – volume orientation. The industrial processing rate of the raw materials was small and the food industry was small and little advanced. The political understanding and thinking of the food industry and consumer needs beyond saturation were low. This meant that the industry was seen as a tailhang of primary production and focused on farmers’ incomes rather than competitiveness in relation to neighbouring countries. The focus was lost on competitiveness in relation to competing product groups, which is one of the problems today. The sum of this is that we get higher consumer prices and production costs than necessary. We are not critical enough about which schemes are put in place and how they are financed. We remain production-volume-focused rather than consumer needs-focused. Our aim must be to ensure that, over time, regardless of political fluctuations and international agreements Norway chooses to conclude, we have a food industry that has predictable framework conditions. It cannot be like today that we have Europe's highest fees and inspection fees for the food industry. We know that foreign competitors have, and will take, increasing competitive shares of the Norwegian market in the future. The Norwegian industry must then be able to compensate for this market loss through exports. We need to ensure that the framework conditions in Norway are not more cost-effective than for comparable countries, as well as to facilitate the movement of commodity prices towards neighbouring countries. Meat and fish must be treated in the same way as regards rates of charge. Different charging is completely unreasonable. Both parts are food and are value chains from raw material to processed product. Also for fish, it is the responsibility of the authorities to follow up breeding, juvenile and cephalopod production, animal welfare, etc. We have to assume that the seafood rate is low because the product has to cope with competition in an international market. In the case of imported raw materials, significant costs of customs clearance are incurred, including to the Food Authority. Food surveillance requires a fee for ‘specific benefits for specific users’ and for ‘supervisory and control tasks where these are distinctly targeted at specific users’. [[...]] The total in 2010 shall be 137 million. SEK, of which 94 million. kr is linked to meat inspection in slaughterhouses. $14 million. kr comes from specific services to specific users. The meat inspection fee is approx. 32 o'clock the kilo of all slaughter from four-legged animals and poultry. In the EU, individual countries set the rates under Directive 85/73/CEE. The method of calculation also varies between countries, but the normal range ranges from 6 to 20 øre per øre. kg in fee. The fees must not exceed those in our neighbouring country, i.e. half the level of the day. In 2009, EUR 134 million is expected. kr as a research fee. The rate is 13 cents per cent. kg for all meat and 6 ears per. kg for eggs. The levy collected is used as the industry’s own share in research projects. The Board of Directors of the Fund shall manage and allocate the funds on behalf of the stages of the value chain involved. Such a collective solution is not common in other countries. Interested parties must act on their own merits. The high costs in Norway are also linked to the objectives of the agricultural policy on scattered production and small units. Authorities should see that this is not a commercial responsibility. Politicians must take responsibility for the systems they set up. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has just instructed the Council of Turnover to introduce a ‘voluntary levy’ on meat to be sub-financed by the Information Office for Meat and Eggs. It has to be applied at the industrial level and must be voluntary because there is no basis for such a charge today. It's suggested a place between 1 and 5 cents per. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, Today, the information office is financed by the farmer because it is part of market regulation. In those EU countries that carry out such an information activity, there is no clear model. In the United Kingdom, this was previously financed by the farmer, but was changed to include industry and trade. Participation in trade has now been phased out. The Information Office is also part of the instruments of the market organisations and is subject to market regulation Nortura. The aim of market regulation is to contribute to keeping the market price up, so as to ensure the income of the farmer. It is clearly stated that it does not exist for the sake of industry or has to be started to solve their market problems. As long as the information office is part of the market regulation managed by Nortura and the employees of the information office are employed in Nortura, it is unheard that the industry should participate in and finance this. In my next post, I want to take care of the problem in the border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e633	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for the interpellation. As Minister of Food, I am very concerned about the framework conditions and development of the food industry. The Norwegian food industry is Norway’s second largest industrial industry after the workshop industry, and in 2008 it had a production value of about EUR 15 million. 120 billion kroner and approx. 40000 persons employed, broken down by 1 000 larger and smaller enterprises. Then we didn't count on the fishing industry. This is all from large listed enterprises and interacts with many thousands of employees to individual enterprises with domestic production or production only for a local market. The food industry is an essential part of a complete value chain for the production of food in Norway. Enterprises are scattered throughout the country and are part of a value chain that has a broad social responsibility. The answer to the interpellant Tjældal's question is therefore yes. I am very concerned about securing this industry's framework conditions that make it competitive in relation to foreign actors. We know that there will be a need to increase Norwegian food production in the future, both due to international food security and increased domestic population growth. We're going to produce in Norway the food we have on the basis of. Consumer requirements for quality and diversity are increasing and competition is increasing. If we are to succeed in meeting this situation, an up-to-date and innovative food industry is necessary. In this respect, the framework conditions must also be competitive overall in relation to foreign actors. But we have a different starting point for food production than competing countries have. We have higher commodity prices in Norway than in other countries, because we rely on profitability also in agriculture to produce the raw materials here north. However, the international food crisis has shown that Norwegian commodity prices are also more stable. Norway is also a high-cost country. Norwegian hourly labour costs for all employees on average in industry were 28 pst. higher than a trade-weighted average for our trading partners in 2008. Differences have increased in recent years. In particular, these two conditions underline the importance of effective import protection as a crucially publicised framework condition, both for primary production and the food industry. This also makes it possible to have a price level of the raw materials adapted to the Norwegian level of costs, climate and topography, and thus underpinning the use of our limited land resources for raw materials production. Import protection protects primary production as well as the food industry, which is in a community of fate. Nevertheless, Norwegian consumers are among consumers in the world who use the lowest proportion of their income on food because of their high purchasing power. Despite the import protection, the Norwegian food sector is exposed to competition. Imports have been increasing over several years. From 1995 to 2008, the domestic market share has decreased from 90 pst. For approx. 84 pst. Highly fluctuating international prices also vary the level of import protection for some basic raw materials where we have Norwegian production. It has once again become clearer after the severe price drop internationally. From the peak in 2008 to 1 January 2009, the FAO price index fell by more than 30 pst, and then slightly increased through 2009. In the agricultural business, both I and the contracting parties have been concerned that the competitive conditions of the industry will be maintained as a result of the agreements. Of course, I would also like to draw attention to this in the forthcoming settlements. In particular, the processed industry, the so-called RAC industry, which has lower duty rates and is subject to the commodity price compensation system, is subject to competition on the basis of Protocol 3 to the EEA Agreement. Significant parts of Norwegian agricultural production are processed in this industry. With the very strong price fluctuations we have seen internationally, the appropriations for the price depreciation of the commodities for the food industry have also varied a great deal in recent years. However, the result of this item, financed by the agricultural agreement, has been that this industry has had predictable and significantly more stable raw material costs than competing industry and reasonably level playing field with foreign industry in recent years. The allocation to the commodity price scheme is 250 million. kr in 2010 and among others The pizza factory at Stranda is entirely dependent on this scheme, which is part of the agricultural agreement. The food industry is also cyclical, but to a lesser extent than other industries, because demand is more stable. However, an economic policy that contributes to a reasonable level of interest rates and a stable exchange rate is also important for the food industry. An economic policy that contributes to predictability is the single factor the industry most often points to when it comes to framework conditions provided by the public. Norway has so far proven itself well through the financial and economic crisis, and Norwegian food businesses have been less affected by the strong international fluctuations in the prices of raw materials for food than most other countries. There are currently negotiations relating to trade in agricultural products in various international forums. The WTO negotiations have been ongoing since 2001, we are negotiating with the EU through Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, and we have other trade negotiations with major countries such as Ukraine, India and China. It is important that these negotiations be conducted in such a way that we can also have a strong import protection in the future in order to maintain agricultural production and an innovative and offensive Norwegian food industry. In any WTO agreement, the Government shall make use of all the means of securing Norwegian agricultural production and the Norwegian food industry. An agreement also requires compensation to the producers of raw materials for loss of income so that we can ensure competitive deliveries of Norwegian raw materials to the food industry. The food industry is also increasingly facing competition vertically in the value chain from four strong food chains, because the industry is selling its products to consumers via the retail sector, and there are more developments in recent years that I want to get more detailed information on. Therefore, in the near future, I will set up a sample to review the strengths of the value chain. The main objective is to describe the consequences of developments in the food chain and to be able to bring about the future. The Committee shall propose measures to safeguard the interests of consumers in terms of price, quality, range of products and availability, but also the transparency and transparency of the whole food chain ensuring adequate and adequate social control and efficient use of societal resources. It's a basic assumption that the food we eat is safe. This applies regardless of the competitive situation with the outside world. The food industry produces goods mainly on the Norwegian consumer market. In a situation of increasing international competition, the production of high-quality safe food is an important competitive factor. People should have confidence in Norwegian-produced food. A number of framework conditions affect the competitive conditions of the meat industry, as specifically mentioned by the representative Treldal. Fees and charges are one of several conditions. Fees shall not exceed the real costs of control and shall thus be kept to a minimum. Food surveillance indicates that the use of resources for meat inspection is greater than the income from the meat inspection fee. Furthermore, the funding of fees is based on common legislation and harmonised principles across borders in Europe. However, Norway has some special taxes, such as the food production fee. These fees and charges in the food management represent a substantial part of the financing of the oversight and control activities of the Food Safety Authority. When examining the food law, a majority of the Grand Duchy stressed that the revenue from fees and charges should not exceed 80 pst. of the total operational expenditure of the Food Safety Authority. Today, user funding is about 64 pst. Fees and fees in the food management, irrespective of this interpellation, shall now be reviewed in the light of the experience of the Food Authority over five years with the current system. The government is concerned about the competitive conditions and developments throughout the Norwegian food sector. This will be one of the themes of the upcoming big message. Good framework conditions are important to ensure progress in line with the objectives of food production in Norway, food safety, quality, diversity and consumer safety. The development of international commodity prices, with great variation, makes us closely follow it in the assessment of customs protection, and especially in relation to the RAC industry. However, it is not only the framework conditions that public authorities provide — or significantly affect — that determine the competitiveness of industry. Of course, it also has a great responsibility itself to ensure its own competitiveness, through innovation, through conversion and not least through sound cost developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e676	I would first like to thank the Minister for the answer. Of course, I did not entirely agree with everything he came along with, but that is nothing new. Border trade is far from a new phenomenon, but has increased due to a socialist agricultural policy and lower Swedish excise duties. Norwegian agriculture is regulated to the minimum detail. We also have a dramatic increase in border trade that could cost us 10,000 jobs. There have never been more abandoned farms in this country than now. At the border with Sweden at Narvik in the north, there is a lot of construction activity. Shops have been built there, but you haven't finished opening the store until you start expanding it to twice – because it's a boom of border trade in meat. There are also people from all over Lofoten who drive 20 miles to trade in Sweden. The Progress Party will have a new agricultural policy with fewer regulations, in which the food producers as self-employed will have the opportunity to manage their own production. This means that the current system of market regulation and concession limits must be phased out. We believe that the special agricultural agreement should be replaced by full ownership and freedom of production for food producers. We also believe that modernised agricultural framework conditions will strengthen competition in the Norwegian food market and contribute to better product choice and lower prices than current regulated framework conditions provide. We see that the grocery trade in Sweden is cheering over the state budget from the government of Stoltenberg. It has been estimated that border trade will reach over 10 billion in 2009. In the case of different meat types, it's all 50 pst. cheaper to trade in Sweden. According to industry, this can give up on 10,000 jobs. I quote from the daily food trade newspaper, where an interview has been conducted with Rema’s regional director in the north, Pál Hultgreen, which indicates that: ‘for a long time there has been a large border trade north and mentions Umbukta at Mo i Rana, Graddis at Fauske, the Riksgren at Narvik and Kilpisjervi at Skibotn against Sweden as vulnerable areas. [[...]] Relatively, border trade in the north is probably as large as in South Norway. 15-20 miles by car is no distance to talk about here north, says Hultgreen, and adds: I am myself from Mo in Rana, and it is within ten miles to Tärnaby. [[...]] We took a look at that distance and we often did it. He also points out that Finland and Sweden are significantly cheaper, and refers to price differences due to taxes and political decisions as a cause, as well as that the weak Swedish krona stimulates increased border trade. I just want to recommend to the Minister that we have more focus on doing something about the systems, so that we don't lose a lot of jobs in this country because we're not competitive with our neighboring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e700	Since the representative Treldal addresses the border trade in particular in his second post, I will also comment on this topic in my second post. According to the Central Statistical Office, we traded the first three quarters last year for approx. 7,6 billion kroner, and this is a significant increase of more than 15 p.m., compared to the same period of the year before. Now we haven't gotten the last numbers per. The year-end, but probably the level is about 10 billion kroner, as it was also said. The Norwegian krona is currently strong, and it also makes it more profitable to trade in Sweden. According to Eurostat, the price level of GDP is adjusted per capita. The total population in Norway is 90 pst. above the average in the 27 EU countries, and the price level at the total level was 39 p.p. above average. It is an important fact that also affects border trade. We have Europe's highest price levels of food and non-alcoholic beverages, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, clothing, shoes and transport services, as well as hotel and restaurant services. Alcohol, tobacco and some foodstuffs are often important, but all kinds of consumer goods are traded: cars, repair of consumer electronics, interiors, groceries. We have seen – and this is underlined by SIFO – that prices in Sweden are lower at the border of typical border trade goods than elsewhere in Sweden, and that means that border trade is also governed by baits. By 9 December, Consumer Inspectors at the NRC showed that a comprehensive shopping cart with typical Christmas goods was cheaper at Rema in Norway than in Sweden. Border trade is a phenomenon that exists at all borders between countries where differences in wage and price levels make it profitable to trade cheaper goods on the other side of the border. Nordmänn frontierhandler in Sweden, Swedes in Denmark, Danes in Germany, Germans in Poland, can be found in Estonia, etc. We can't have a Norwegian salary level and a Bulgarian price level. Eurostat documents that we have significantly higher price levels for most goods and services in Norway than in the EU. Of course, it is linked to the Norwegian wage and cost level. The Technical Calculation Committee has said that the salary level in Norway is above 30 pst. higher than in Sweden, if we're going to take that point. For the most typical border trade products, border trade is partly due to political decisions, levies and agricultural policy decisions. And policy must constantly balance the cross-cutting considerations. Then one might ask, are we busy preventing commercial leakage? Of course. But the most important thing here is to pursue an economic policy that does not weaken competitiveness over time. There is reason to argue that countries with high wage levels and specific policy objectives may have special price differences on some product types based on a charging scheme. We have to live with a certain border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e713	There is no doubt that the interpellant addresses important issues and issues in its interpellation, to which I believe the Council of State has given good answers. Just a few comments and clarifications from my side. The government will pursue a business policy that facilitates an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business. Good, long-term and stable framework conditions are needed. The context of the food industry is a particular concern of this government. It's an important industry, in fact the second largest industry, in excess of 1,000 companies that are responsible for value creation and jobs across the country. It is important that this industry evolves, and it is particularly important that we develop an industry that can handle more raw materials than what one does today, especially in the fisheries area. The relationship between agriculture and the food industry is in a way expressed by the Council of State, a relationship of interdependence, or a community of fate. Farmers depend on the delivery of their raw materials, and the industry must obtain them at a reasonable price. In order to safeguard these interests, a new foreign processing legislation was put in place in 2007. The regulation required the volume of foreign processing of meat and dairy products to be regulated by quotas. Active agriculture throughout the country requires that we have a food industry that can reduce and further process the raw materials, just as industry depends on agriculture as a commodity supplier. We must say that we have established a relatively complex structure in Norway to meet the need to have agriculture and the processing industry properly distributed throughout the country. But I'm not in on the black paint that the representative of Treldal is doing. Industry as a market regulator and the relationship with other industries can often be perceived as complex and inconclusive. But at least in this country, we have managed to maintain a country-wide agriculture and a food industry that is our second-largest industrial industry. I think that this is a pretty useful result so far. This issue is one of several reasons why we in the Workers' Party have been concerned about the preparation of a large-scale report on agriculture and food production covering the whole value chain from land to table. Then we get a solid factual basis to discuss these issues. It is vital that we succeed in this. We need to ensure the industry's framework conditions that make it competitive vis-à-vis foreign actors, and we need to ensure that food production opportunities in Norway are of safe and good quality. I can see that it is one of the most important challenges we face in the work on the new big message, which we have to succeed in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e726	Norwegian agriculture is struggling. Unfortunately, it has been for many years. The number of farms has never been smaller, the number of farmers has never been smaller, and the number of deer cultivated area has a downward trend. New cultivation is almost non-existent. Also, the income of the farmers gets smaller, even though I have recorded that this figure is not correct for some people. We'll see. Very many farmers have farming as a beekeeper and are either self-employed outside the farm or employed in the public or private sector. Norwegian agriculture is heavily regulated by laws and regulations. Annual agricultural negotiations are conducted in which the country and trade associations negotiate prices and other measures. This has been the case for many years, and transfers over the state budget have probably never been bigger than they are now. In spite of this, the number of farmers, farms, cultivated land, etc. is reduced, regardless of government – socialist or bourgeois, majority or minority. Then you would think you would try something new to change the existing one. Because it cannot continue that those children who grow up on a farm, more or less all want to do anything other than to become a farmer. Recruitment's better a freak. If this continues, the production of food will be less than the consumption we have, and we have to buy more from our neighboring country. That is why the Progress Party believes that we need to reduce taxes, taxes and regulations, so that the food industry can get better framework conditions. This must be a regulation that is flexible enough to allow industry to survive, but also so flexible that it can develop and become even better and thus more competitive and get income. Now that it only costs 80 cents for a Swedish krona, it is cheap to shop groceries in Sweden. When prices are also considerably lower than Norwegian prices, although beef in Norway would be 2 kroner cheaper per year. kg, it is not nice that the border trade explodes. It's so simple that where people find the cheapest products of good quality, they trade. And if you buy the cheap goods first, you also follow the others. It's done approx. five million day trips abroad, mainly to Sweden, in 2009. On these day trips it is left approx. 10 billion Norwegian kroner. While we've traveled 12 pst. more than last year, consumption has increased by a total of 21 pst. – So we act more per cent. It's time to go. These approx. DKK 10 billion represents more than 9 000 jobs, perhaps 10,000, substantial in service industries, but also in agriculture and the food industry. This helps to weaken these industries. It is therefore necessary to test the agricultural policy of the Progress Party in order to save agriculture and the food industry. There will be fewer transfers, but lower taxes and taxes, fewer laws and regulations, yes to, for example. more cooperatives and ASs, fewer predators, etc. and SEK 1.5 billion in conversion products, which will save the food industry and e.g. Norwegian agriculture. As it is today, it is only a staple of the industry, and only the greatest and most powerful will survive—in any case. It will affect agriculture and the food industry. We will have depopulation in the districts, the cultural landscapes will grow again, etc. That's why we have to do something – not like today, where everything is run by the public and there's little room for innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e745	It is always interesting and good when the Storting focuses on competition for business, and especially in the food industry, how much is pervasive and the elements of competition can sometimes be a little hidden. There are other competitive opportunities here. These are commodity prices, production costs, fees, taxes, exchange rates, costs of capital use and, in the case of exports and imports, customs duties and access to markets. The structure of the income flow in Norwegian agriculture and thus in the food industry and the rest of the chain is in many ways excluded from the impact of Storting through the agricultural agreement. It has created a precious Norwegian agriculture. It has probably also caused us to lose competitiveness. I believe in many ways that the agricultural agreement, in its existing form, belongs to a lost time. We have lost focus on competitiveness in relation to neighbouring countries. We need a stronger focus on consumer and industrial raw material production in terms of quality and products, and a generally improved structural development at all stages of the value chain. That is why we have received high consumer prices, production costs and commodity costs, and we have had too little profitability and development in the food industry. The agricultural agreement, which is part of this, came before the modern consumer and the modern consumer community were invented, to say that, and we need to change. The Prime Minister also said something about this at the NHO conference today, where I come from. He was talking about conversion. He also said another interesting thing, namely that state intervention is sometimes important – but not always. I think we're in here in an area where we might be able to think about whether the state interference always brings the best with it, and whether there might be other ways to solve it. That's why I'm a little surprised when the Minister of Agriculture in his first post ends up talking about the power message in food sales, i.e. in food chains, because this has been investigated very many times by the competition authorities and is relatively well-lit. I don't think the big problem for the food industry is there, nor in terms of the prices to the consumer. But let's get this power message review -- it's excellent, if it also takes along the whole chain. But what's more important, I think, is that the announced agricultural message brings with it the whole value chain. I allowed myself to ask the Minister of Agriculture in October on a written question, whether he would look at it. I perceived the answer that time as very halfway. The issue of competition was not affected in the response of the Council of State. It was affected in my question. I believe that the food industry, not only its role in relation to what it can do for production and agriculture, but what such a message can say about the possibilities, framework conditions and roles of the food industry itself, becomes very important. Therefore it is interesting to hear the representative Haugen's comments today, where, in my opinion, he goes further than the Council of State Breck. The Workers' Party's attitude, says Haugen, according to my poor notes here, is that they will use this message to review and lay the foundation for a competitive food industry. That's good. Then they're on the right hand side. And it'll be happy if the Council of State also today, or at an appropriate time, says the same thing, so that the Government, as it always tries, tries to say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e760	The food industry is, as many people have pointed out here today, a very important part of Norwegian industry, which may often be overlooked in industrial debates, because there is a tendency that the bigger the businesses, and the more heavy metal they produce, the more remarkable they get. So it's very positive that the interpellant has taken up the question of the food industry. Now, the Minister of Agriculture has given a very good account of what the Government is thinking about the food industry, how important it is, and how it is going to get sensible framework conditions. What I want to add is that in Norway we have a model when it relates to agricultural products, which are based on agricultural negotiations, and which are based on price regulation. It's a model that's worked. It is a goal of the policy we are pursuing in Norway today, to look at the health of agricultural production and food production that follows. The whole-hearted policy has been aimed at having agriculture throughout Norway, and at having viable rural areas. It is part of the relatively well-recognized objective of what we pursue in agriculture and the food industry. It's e.g. only to look at our neighbouring country Sweden to what extent they have had less happiness in a goal of having agriculture throughout the country than we have done in Norway with the model we have developed, with negotiations and with price adjustments. What's a point when we look at the employment situation is that we don't just take one element of the total image. What the interpellant is doing is very much taking out the food industry from the total image. If you live as a spokesperson or as a politically engaged person in a district municipality in Norway, you will see that the workplaces are much more holistic. It's the part-time farmer, it's the food industry, and it's not least the tourism industry, which has gradually begun to have a major impact on precisely the goal of having living communities and having a holistic perspective on it, so that one has a regulated system that keeps us alive in rural agriculture and thus creates a basis in the districts for jobs other than agriculture. It is an important part of agricultural policy that often forgets when only a grip takes place at the end, namely the competitive situation of the food industry. There is also another element that we need to take more and more seriously today, and that is taking care of productive soil. In the climate situation we have, and in the food situation, it's a point to deal with, not to make the competitive situation so that one creates a drive towards such large units that one gets the depopulation of the countryside and thus also reduces the agricultural production and active operation of arable land. So there's a lot of elements in this that make questions about the food industry have a bigger health than what comes up in the interpellant's questions. So it's like, as many people have just said, that we've now been notified of an agricultural message where we're going to see it in wholeness and not extract one element alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e773	The food industry is an important key in the overall value chain that we have for food production in Norway. I think it is important that we see the policy of the food industry as a whole. For the Centre Party, the aim is to have an agricultural sector and a related food industry throughout the country. I see this as a clear contrast to the policy of the Progress Party in this area, where they want free competition and freedom of establishment at all stages of production. At least that was what the representative, Mr. Träldal, presented in the budget debate before Christmas. I believe that the representative, Mr Träldal, should draw up the Norway Map and explain how, with the solutions of the Progress Party, he will be able to maintain the production and processing of food throughout the country in order to have the same conditions for those in the Central East region as those in the Far North of the country, or to have the same framework conditions as those in South Sweden and Denmark. It is worrying that the Progress Party does not see that the climate and topography in Norway are different from what one has in other parts of the world. I have trouble seeing what is the Progress Party's vision for Norwegian agriculture. I have been told that a person wants a strong cut in the transfers. I have been told that a person wants compensation or a means of conversion, and I have been told that a person wants to release the farmer. The policy that I see is a policy to release more and more farmers from the peasantry. It doesn't want the Center Party. What is gratifying about the interpellation of the representative, Mr Träldal, is that he is going from proposing to weaken the framework conditions for industry by stepping down on subsidies to industry, as argued in the debate on the 2010 state budget, to now wanting to strengthen the framework conditions. Agriculture and the associated value chain play an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. The main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population. We also need to see Norwegian food production in an international perspective. A billion of the world's population is starving today, and we are facing a future food crisis. We know that the population in both Norway and the rest of the world will increase in the next few years. It makes Norwegian agriculture and total food production important. This means that food production needs to be increased in the future. In fact, for the Centre Party, increasing Norwegian food production is an objective. I didn't campaign to promise people cheaper food. No, I've been campaigning in Rogaland to promise people more expensive food if it's necessary to maintain a Norwegian agriculture. I am concerned that one looks at agriculture as a long-term industry that is totally dependent on stable framework conditions. We cannot separate the food industry from food production. We have to look at this as a whole. The protection that benefits agriculture also benefits the food industry. If a person is to have a living agriculture throughout the country, he must have good framework conditions. I am pleased that it is now announced that the Government is making a big message about agriculture. I look forward to that discussion, not on how to preserve Norwegian agriculture, but on how to manage to have a living agriculture throughout the country in the future. Because the outfits are there, there's no doubt about it. I believe that both Norwegian farmers and the Norwegian food industry are best served by the fact that it is an agricultural and food minister from the Central Party who is in charge of that work, and that it is a red-green government that is to present that notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e791	I am very pleased with the interpellation, and several interpellations are needed to discuss Norwegian policy during a break-up time when a new course is being launched internationally, away from a freedest free trade in food to a world trade that meets the major challenges of climate and food security. The food industry concerns our food related to cereals, milk, meat and vegetables, that is, our daily bread. There are questions about enough food, safe food and healthy food. Quality is important in Norway, in a country with a very high level of income. It's important that we get healthy food, because the negative consequences of unhealthy food and additives we only see after many years. There are very many who work in this industry, who are skilled business managers, skilled trade union workers. It's an industry that, because of its number of employees, is much, much more important than most people are aware of. As a business industry, the food industry is asking for predictable and robust framework conditions, such as the Right way of saying. In other words, the authorities must provide business – this business is made up of owners, employees and suppliers of raw materials – with an agreement that can be met without being made through a lower profitability for the owners, a lower wage than elsewhere in the Norwegian society, and raw material prices that are at the level of our extremely high international wage levels. With today's public order and cost level, this chord is already too tight. It's too much pressure. It looks like you're looking at who's holding on to their ownership in the food industry. It is agreed in the food industry, which processes cereals, milk, meat and vegetables, that it is necessary to have a high level of import protection that is close and not undermined, in order to ensure a national market and the corresponding level of food prices. The parallelness of this import protection system is in the government's work what happens to the business world, where one wants to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions for employees in general in Norway. The Progress Party here, through its representatives Bredvold and Tåldal, says that there is a bad development and that one needs to change. It should be a cross-thinking that those who work in the industry, those who own that industry, do not choose the Progress Party. The party of progress is otherwise busy having contact with real life. _Other Organiser It looks one at the upswing in the industry we're talking about here. One rejects the proposals, seafaringly because the policy is even more unfavorable for the food industry. The Food Industry NHO Association clearly states that it is an illusion to believe that the food industry can compete on the world market. I would like to hear if there are anyone here who dares to respond to the position and the claim from my side that is anchored in the NHO's own associations. For these owners, who are in the food industry, as the Progress Party, and also the Right and Left, say they are listening to, the worst thing that can happen is that political unforeseeableness is created, among other things. import allowances and import holes, as this opens up the trade stage, the monopolist food chains, import directly from abroad – read: mainly from EU countries – and thus the food industry is even more frugal. That is why the policies of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are the greatest threat to the Norwegian food industry. In addition to the need for stronger import protection, it is important that the Government now looks at the power relationships between the food industry and trade. There is a great deal of excitement in the manufacturing industry, and the centre party is very happy that the government has reduced it. And we record with interest that the Right Seafarer is not happy with this. The centre party wishes to improve the profitability of production life. In the last 20 years, there has been a dramatic change in the disfavor of production. No country has such monopolistic developments at an irregular level of food trade such as Norway. It is so widespread with secret agreements that the producer – whether it is soap or meat – does not see the unfair competition and dares to face it publicly. Therefore, the review by the Government of power relations between industry and trade is very important, but it is hardly possible to do anything about it without changing the ownership of the trade, in line with, for example, American trust control, where one would not allow such monopolies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e812	I think it's a little sweet to sit in my room and hear the representatives Lundtigen and Pollestad from the pulpit. Lundtigen has used the hourglass and looked forward and found that the Party of Advances does not have the choice and does not have the support of the food industry. Pollestad promises that if the Center Party continues to sit in government, food will be more expensive. Unlike maybe these people, I have been looking at the industry and being in contact with those who work there. They're saying exactly the opposite of the representatives of the Center Party. And then you might ask yourself, "Why is the Center Party approaching the barrier?" The Progress Party will have a new agricultural policy that can provide the basis for robust Norwegian food production across the country and which can offensively face international competition and exploit export opportunities in a freer food trade. The Progress Party also believes that the socialist agricultural governance system is an obstacle to developing food production towards consumer considerations and away from bureaucratic constraints. The Progress Party is disappointed that the other parties in the Grand Duchy are not taking a settlement with an agricultural policy that has failed in relation to the objectives of housing, employment and income levels. It will eventually become a freer world trade also for food products, and it is important that we now take the time to ensure that Norwegian agriculture and related industries have the framework conditions that are adapted to a new trading system and that conditions that are competitive are ensured. It has to end with the imposition of much higher costs and charges on the Norwegian agricultural industry than on our neighbouring countries. It is a political responsibility to clean up an agricultural policy that does not work. The responsibility should not be shifted to the industry, as we all hear from the Central Party from this pulpit today. It is not those who are to blame; it is industry. We already see that foreign actors are establishing themselves in the Norwegian market, and now it is our responsibility to facilitate Norwegian agriculture and industry to face up to a new competitive situation. Freer trade in agricultural products will increase competition in the Norwegian market to the benefit of consumers, but will also provide Norwegian agriculture and industry with high export opportunities – as in New Zealand. That is why we believe it is important to establish an export strategy for Norwegian agricultural products, which we promoted for sale in the context of the treatment of the State budget. We need to ensure that a greater part of the value creation remains in enterprises for further development through lower taxes and taxes. We need to ensure substantial reductions in fees and inspection fees imposed on the food industry, which are among the highest in Europe. It is now possible to provide a framework for the food industry which makes it possible to meet offensively a freer world trade in agricultural products and strengthened competition. The Minister has stated on his website that he will do everything in his power to make changes in the WTO negotiations. Then I would like to ask the Minister the following question: What have you planned to change in the WTO negotiations that you have not done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e831	The President will remind the interpellant that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e834	First of all, I would like to clarify just a little inaccuracies in the posts of the representative for the fleet. I believe that in the past – both in the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and in other contexts – I have stressed that the whole value chain for Norwegian food production should be reviewed in the new communication on agricultural and food policy. So that's where we agree. I look forward to that being an important job. Not least, I look forward to this happening in the light of the global and international conditions related to food security, food security, animal welfare issues and not least food shortages. I would like to stress that once we have notified a review of the strengths of the food value chain, the aim is also that we should use it to lay the foundation for the implementation of a future new policy. It is true, as the representative also stresses, that we need to look at the competitive conditions throughout the value chain, because this is obviously a lack of competition in parts of the value chain that go beyond the interests of consumers and not least the interests of manufacturers and industry. My ambition in this work is to get a value chain where there's competition within a regime where we have import restrictions, where we're going to have competition that keeps us a food-producing peasantry, that we keep a food industry, and that we keep a food industry. That work is going to be exciting, and it's going to be interesting to see how the other parts of the Storting will look at that work as we move on with it. Finally, I would like to stress that – in my opinion at least – it is quite naive for the representatives of the Progress Party to believe – and here I am pleased that the Progress Party is fortunately alone, because the Right does not go as far as the Progress Party in that area – that a full release in the Norwegian food industry and Norwegian food production will lead to a larger number of food producers, a larger extent in the Norwegian food industry, and a larger export. The reason why I say that is, of course, because we see elsewhere in the world that every country that has a positive development in its food industry and its food production has a framework that ensures them against the import competition that the Party wants. So the policy of the Progress Party will lead to the collapse of Norwegian agriculture, not least the closure of large parts of the Norwegian food industry. That will be the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e845	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e851	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e887	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-07.ana.ud2258e964	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
