ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e88	The representative of Irene Lange Nordahl, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Tove Linnea Brandvik from 19 April until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Jette F. Christensen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Tove Linnea Brandvik, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the county of Hordaland, Roald Aga Haug, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e120	Roald Aga Haug is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e128	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e131	On behalf of the representative, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to propose a representative to strengthen the environmental and climate work in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e136	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e150	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e166	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e182	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e198	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e207	This proposal for a representative of some representatives from the Right on personal savings and employee participation in their own company is reflected in three concrete proposals from a minority and that it is not endorsed by the majority. From the minority, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is proposed to ask the Government to present a case on 'what measures can be taken to help more employees become joint owners in their own company'. The proposers proposed that this should be submitted to the Stortinget this spring, but the wording has been changed to ‘in the autumn of 2010’ during the Committee reading. This is supported by all the non-socialist parties, i.e. the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Furthermore, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left promote proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: «The government is asked to propose a step up of the tax-free discount on the purchase of shares by employees in its own company and an assessment of the transfer of the tax date for the benefit of the purchase of discounted shares from the date of purchase to the date of sale.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking during the spring of 2010 to bring forward a case for the Storting to account for the Long-term Savings Account and to propose to the Stortinget a saving facility that allows personal savers to avail themselves of the exemption method, and to invest in Norwegian business, without having to set up their own investment companies.’ [[CLASS]] This is supported by the Progress Party, Right and Left, against presenting it to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2010 and not this spring. A majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, is advised not to endorse the proposals because it is considered that the current arrangements are good enough. The majority of the Committee is also concerned that such a scheme will erode the tax system and constitute a tax subsidy. As regards proposal No: 3, on «Accounts for Long-term Saving of Shares», I have interpreted the majority and the Minister of Finance to the effect that the proposal is initially positive, and they themselves refer to the working group, consisting of representatives of the Oslo Stock Exchange, the Aktionärföreningen and the Sverveitsentralen, which has produced a report with proposals for the share model. However, the majority of the Committee and the Council of State consider that some issues need to be addressed, including: whether this is feasible under the EEA Agreement and different tax agreements with other countries, in addition to the fact that it is natural to consider the proposal for CLASS to be seen in the context of an evaluation of the tax reform. That is why it is not possible to support a proposal which commits itself to presenting a case on this issue this year. However, as rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, I believe that with regard to the proposals which have actually changed the wording of the case to be referred to the Stortinget «crops 2010» instead of this part of the year, that should be enough time. Much of the work and investigations have already been done, and politically I cannot see the real resistance either. The Council of State itself acknowledges in its letter to the Financial Committee that it is ‘positive to increase the influence and responsibility of employees on its own business, cf. the wording of the Soria Moria II declaration.’; Furthermore, we can also go back to the plenary session for similar proposals, right enough for 13-14 years ago, in the Innst. S. No 49 for 1996-1997, where the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party considered that employee participation in own enterprises could be a contribution to preventing a development in which the head offices are moved out of Norway and will strengthen Norwegian business. Then these members asked that the then government go through the legislation of the scheme that promotes the ability of employees to buy shares in their own company, as part of their efforts to promote long-term and active ownership. Then we have the Center Party, which in the same case and in the same treatment, correctly enough a few years ago, wrote in the comments that it was important that employees could be partners in their own business, both for the sake of the company's business and also as a contribution to ensuring Norwegian ownership of the business. What about the Socialist Left Party? Yes, they have even in recent years suggested a law that employees are also co-owners and have mentioned this in the party programme. It has also been debated and voted on in the Grand Chamber a few years ago, 16 May 2006, unfortunately with the same constellation and the same majority in the United Kingdom. But the interesting thing is that at the time, the majority proposed that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, i.e. a lighter form than the majority of the Committee now proposes, that it be rejected. I would also like to remind you that all the hearing bodies in this matter have been positive and agree with the proposal. Furthermore, there has been some research in this area. You've actually concluded that there's only positive effects of this right over here. In conclusion, I would like to mention the proposals made by the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e243	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e246	First I want to say that we believe it is positive that adding gets increased influence and responsibility for your company. There are different laws that already contribute to this – both company law, labour environment law and tax law. There are several companies that have actually found the rules that are there today to be profitable in establishing schemes for the purchase of axles into their own company within the framework of the legislation that we have. As a result, we believe that changes are not necessary in line with the proposal by the proposers. We're busy having a broad, transparent and fair tax base. A key objective of the 2006 tax reform has been to ensure a greater degree of fiscal non-discrimination for people at the same level of income, regardless of how income is projected. This principle was widely agreed in the Grand Duchy when tax reforms were handled. Furthermore, it was stressed that tax rules should reflect actual economic conditions, and that there was a cross-political agreement that there was a need for significant restrictions in previous legislation on naturalisation. In line with this, a number of restrictions were made on the taxation of in-kind benefits. The starting point of tax laws is now that all employee benefits that constitute a private advantage are to be considered taxable profit for it to add. This applies regardless of whether the performance is provided in cash or in kind. When the taxable benefit of in kind is not equal to the market value, a recovery of the tax base is at risk, by making tax-advanced in-kind benefits rather than cash wages. Acquisitions of axles free of charge or at a discount due to employment are therefore, as a general rule, taxable labour income for it to add. The benefit will normally be the difference between the sal value of the share at the date of acquisition and that paid by the addee for the share and is included in the basis of general income and personal income. This is important for a fair and easily understandable tax system. For broad tax bases, it is crucial to keep formal tax rates low and to ensure the stabilising effect of the tax system when cyclical fluctuations occur. We also believe that very favourable tax rules for the purchase of axles added can lead to widespread discrimination between taxable persons who receive such an offer and those who do not. The proposal opens to pay off a limited group of workers with favourable schemes. High pay is the main source of considerable economic benefits associated with the options and axes of employment. Tax-free discounts may thus be thought to be an option which is primarily used for adding high wages and thus becomes a tax haven with bad distribution effects. It is not a desired development. We think, therefore, that a non-introduced rule that means that axes and options are mainly used for payoff because it gives lower or deferred taxes. Work environment laws have given them influence and formal representation in the body of the enterprise. Working, not just capital, as a basis for influence, is an important part of the Norwegian welfare model underpinned and further developed by the Government. The emergence of more enterprises where they also gain influence through co-ownership seems to me to be positive. But I ask questions about whether society should stimulate this through tax subsidies, which not only break the tax reform but also have bad distribution effects. It is now the case that tax laws already have an exception to this in order to be able to reasonably stimulate the acquisition of axles in their own company, with the positive effects it can have on the work effort, the working environment, etc. When it comes to the proposal on CLASS, we have said in our remarks, and we say here, that the Government actually has such a proposal for assessment that I hope will receive a positive treatment, but it comes back to us in the evaluation of the tax reform. We from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party urge the Stortinget to attach the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e269	Road cover is probably Norway champion of employees' co-ownership. At the time of the hearing on the proposal we are discussing today, we were told that 3,300 employees, or 55 pst. by all employees, have a total holding of 19 p.m. in the company. Chief Venold has had co-ownership as a mantra since he joined 20 years ago, justifying that it increases employee involvement. As he said at the NHO Annual Conference: ‘Employment participation is the main success factor for value creation, growth and development’. Others argued during the hearing that the companies thus gained stable, long-term and active ownership. I think the previous speakers must have heard poorly when they say that there is no need for change, because Venold and Veileck have achieved their goals more despite than because of today's tax rules. In the EU, there is currently a strong focus on co-ownership, precisely to create higher returns, to stimulate efforts and understanding of value creation. The representative Eldegard focuses on the high-wage, but for many small start-ups, the use of options and ownership is essential if they are to attract the employees they need. Norway is at risk of missing out on many innovations that may provide a basis for future well-being, due to too tough conditions for co-ownership. The government parties claim that they are positive to co-ownership, and even say something about it in Soria Moria II, but they're terrified of meeting the challenges. The majority's argument is that you're looking for the counter-arguments. That co-ownership is positive disappears in that not everyone can get it. One denies the possibility of using a positive instrument because someone might not be able to participate in it. The increased understanding of value creation by employees disappears as their risk increases. A higher proportion of employees' wages depends on the market values of the enterprises, is the argument. Such incentives are voluntary, and a lot of the point is that employees should get more insight into the company's opportunities and challenges. Finally, once again, a fair and effective tax system is argued. Here the red-green nutritional neutrality goes on and on. Any reasonable use of the tax system to stimulate desired development is dismissed. Ownership is important and absolutely necessary, but it's amazing that you don't see that ownership is perhaps the greatest driver of major distortions in society. Why not resolve this offensively — incentivising more people to join? So to CLASS, which is a model to give personal savers the opportunity to make use of the exemption model, without having to set up their own investment companies. This is important. State ownership is very high in Norway. The personal shareholder is soon threatened with extinction. If the environmental movement had controlled this, the personal shareholder would soon have been listed as a red-listed species. The proportion of shares owned by individuals has been in constant sliding downwards and is now at the base of 5 pst. The exemption model presented the tax changes in 2004 and in 2005 20 000 more ASs were created than in previous years. In the following years, 8 000 more companies have been established than in the 2000-2004 period. Those who can cover additional accounting and auditing costs of NOK 10 000 to NOK 20 000 have already obtained an AS. CLASS is an arrangement that could give the very smallest share savers equal opportunity without cost. This proposal shows the Minister of Finance's interest, as also pointed out by the rapporteur, but it should be postponed and evaluated in a well-known red-green manner along with the evaluation of the entire tax system. Why? It is important for Norway to stimulate wider private ownership. It is important for understanding value creation and the importance of innovation, research and competence as a pillar of future well-being. There should be reason to believe that the proceeds of the introduction of CLASS will be small. Most people, as I said, already have their own AS. The Minister of Finance's colleague, the Minister of Industry, is very concerned about what we will live on in the future. We should all be, but we should spend less time on advice and focus more on instruments. A broad, diverse, strong and committed private ownership is the best guarantee that the good ideas will find their funding in the future. CLASS is a concrete and effective instrument. Let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e286	We have seen constant efforts from civil society to erode the tax system and consensus in the tax reform, which means that the principles are the broadest possible tax base and the lowest tax rate possible. In addition, there are proposals that will also involve increased bureaucracy. All these proposals come in areas where it is easy to argue for them individually, whether it be tax deductions for training, for health costs or now for the purchase of shares in their own enterprise. It is then necessary to have a political backbone and to say that such individual proposals, which in total undermine the tax system and create new gaps, must be rejected. The representative Gundersen is a good example here when he argues well that we must have exactly this exception, but have more difficulty in seeing the whole. We agree that there may be considerable benefits for employees to have shares in their own company. Road cover is a good example of this, and I understand that the head of road cover would like to have additional tax incentives for co-ownership – but there is a point, however, that they have managed to do this under the current tax regime. The importance of co-ownership, therefore, is not the same as exempting tax havens for it. People are going to get paid in money, so they're going to be able to decide if they want to use wages to train or buy shares. We cannot have a hollow out of the tax system by increasing other benefits. People need to know what they get in pay, not that they get paid, for example. in shares that fluctuate in value. Giving extended tax advantages to the purchase of shares in its own enterprise is a tax advantage that does not benefit everyone, as the representative Eldegard was in it. For example, the assumption is that you work in a limited liability company. It is also a proposal that will benefit the high-wages more than others. With the focus we have had on poverty in Norway — and poverty in Norway is about differences — this is also an area that requires political backbone to say that here we prioritise what gives the most equality. There is today an arrangement whereby employees can purchase shares in their own enterprise at a discount. It's a modest system that gives some stimulus. We want to maintain it and see no need to expand. With regard to the CLASS proposal, a saving device that gives personal savers the opportunity to avail themselves of the exemption method, the Ministry of Finance has stated that they are working on the matter and that they will come back to it in the context of the revision of the tax reform. It may be regrettable to take time, but there are many important issues that are being pushed up to the revision of the tax reform, probably for reasonable reasons. Finally, I would like to point out that the main measures to motivate efforts in the job are not to own shares, but that employees are included on advice, that they have influence, that they find the job meaningful and seaworthy that they feel security for the workplace and the working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e303	The centre party is a strong supporter of socially organised framework conditions that give people the most opportunity to own their own means of production. It might sound a little familiar, but that sentence is a radical phrase, and it's an important phrase. The ability of people today to own their own means of production is most often through two forms of ownership: through maritime ownership and through cooperative ownership. There are two very extensive ownership, and there are two ownerships that should be strengthened because they are embedded in them – which I will get closer to – the link between ownership rights and property obligations. As is said here from the right-hand side, co-ownership or exclusive ownership has many positive effects. One shall not go far in order to see what interest, commitment and future perspective a much easier one gets when one is sole owner or joint owner, because then one is involved in the business in a completely different way. It has many positive effects, having private ownership. That's what we're essentially talking about here. Private ownership ensures its own interests. The question then is whether it is not necessary to complete it with social interests. The instrument that one has is ownership obligations. Property rights and property obligations are an ingenious design, and it is a crucial interplay to ensure both self-interest and community interests. What is at present the question is whether partnership in limited liability companies should be further stimulated in tax terms beyond what is currently the case. From the Center Party side, we're not out here looking for counter performances, on the contrary. We are dealing with the question quite accurately from the main ideological introduction I have now had. What's interesting when we look at the proposal is that everyone has a say in agreeing that those who get part of this get tax havens. I haven't heard many people who are against it. Giving employees the right to tax relief without having any obligations, either to the recipient or to the enterprises included therein, then becomes too weak. It would have been natural, if there had been a real interest in the subject, that the companies that came into this – one could distinguish between those who came in, and those who did not come in – should ensure a spread of ownership, for example, so that through it one could help make it a real and real partnership – not that a mere pro forma was on the tax page, and that the employees who got such a share for such a discount would have to keep the share for a certain period of time, so that there was a certain long-term interest in this. Such obligations attached to courts are absent for the Right Party and the Advance Party. One isn't in that part. Yes, however, one is generally opposed to linking obligations to ownership. That's what's necessary, to connect this to ensure the spread of ownership and to ensure long-term ownership. There we have great opportunities, and it's unusually central on the part of the Center Party and the Government to have such an understanding of the property issue. Ownership rights and property obligations are those that give a stable and robust ownership of future and balancing interests with Community interests. It's simply a wise and brilliant construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e318	From my own experience, I can say that being a partner contributes to commitment. I think there's little doubt about that. To Lundtägen's last contribution on the balancing of duties and rights, I think there is reason to say that in Norwegian society there are significant obligations on the owners of a wide range of laws, as this house has adopted, not least that of the Working Environment Act. I feel that this balance has been very conscious on the part of the legislator – perhaps sometimes even overly conscious in some cases. I refer to the statements made by the rapporteur on points in favour of the proposed representative. I felt that the representatives from the position, with the exception of Lundtigen, were looking for arguments about how to plan the proposal and say that this is basically very small in size. I think that is a somewhat defensive attitude, not least in a situation where we have as much public ownership as we have in this country, and where we have so many employees in the public sector. We should actually use most of the possibilities we have to see how we can strengthen private ownership, without going at the expense of the other engagement we have. And that gives the representative proposal the opportunity. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have gone into item I of the proposal, which is to present a case to the Storting on the framework conditions for private ownership, among others. to gain experience of how other countries have managed this. I think that's going to be quite a lot of good reasons to vote against. But I also see from the Minister of Finance's reply that you think it's okay the way it is today – done with it. So there's no offensive attitude in the government parties to this despite the fact that it's actually mentioned positively in the Soria Moria statement. But we have to take note of that. With regard to proposals Nos. 2 and 3, we have not voted in favour of them in the committee. Proposal No. 2 is a specific proposal for a rebate, and we have to deal with that in budgetary terms. Regarding proposal 3, we note that it works with the Ministry of Finance and that this is likely to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e329	One would think that there was a broad consensus in Stortinget that it is good with increased personal savings, and that it is good with increased co-ownership among employees in Norwegian companies, but then one. The majority, the government parties, correctly state in their comments that there is a positive increase in co-ownership, but at the same time they conclude that they will not even support a proposal that the Government is promoting the cause of the Stortingen on what measures can be taken to help more employees become co-owners in their own company. That's weird, for example. in SV's applications, the following can be read: ‘SV will develop a third sector in the Norwegian economy and business, based on cooperatives and enterprises owned by employees.’ And this has obviously been passed on by the government when in Soria Moria II, who at least the representative of the Christian People's Party has been present, can read the following: «The government will contribute to increased ownership based on cooperatives and enterprises owned by employees.» Now the representative from SV calls it a lack of political spine. So the government and government parties have a goal that is identical to part of the proposal we are now considering, but they do not have the most distant idea of how to achieve this goal. Instead, only a number of existing schemes, as the Labour Party representative did, are referred to, and even stated in the statement that there is no need to do anything. It becomes clearer and clearer to me that the only task of the representatives of the government parties at Stortinget this first year after the elections is to vote against proposals from the opposition – sentence. All responses to opposition proposals are permeated by a fundamental reluctance to do anything. The formulations of Soria Moria II on increased participation are worthless. Obviously, it's not meant to be serious. There is not a single proposal or idea of how to achieve this goal. Take, for example: proposal No 2 in this position on a step up of the tax-free discount on employees’ purchases of shares in their own enterprises, a good and targeted proposal to increase employee participation. When we read the majority's argument to reject this proposal, we could almost believe that it broke the foundations of the whole welfare community. What we're proposing is a cautious escalation from today's limit of NOK 1500 to, for example. 3000 kroner or 4,500 kroner, which several of us have proposed in our alternative state budget. There is nothing that will erode the tax base and help complicate the administrative remuneration system, as the majority – with the pen withheld, probably, by the Ministry of Finance – writes. If there had been any danger in this direction, the entire system of tax rebates for share purchases had to be terminated. The increase in the amount limit has little or nothing to do with such an argument, but it may have a bearing on achieving the Government’s own goal of increasing ownership. For the Left, spreading power and influence is an important ideological principle. It is important that ownership in Norwegian business is multiplied and spread. It is important to stimulate sobriety and saving. And it's important that we get into a culture that promotes investing and owning in Norwegian business rather than consumption and/or investment in property or other asset placements that currently have more favourable tax relationships than shares and ownership of Norwegian companies. All of this is proposed in order to respond to the proposal for a document that we are now considering. That is why it also has the wholehearted support of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e354	This is an interesting topic, and it's a topic that's been discussed in Stortinget in many contexts. It is also a topic that has historically been discussed over many years. The relationship between labour and capital has been part of the central social discussion for a long time. I want to do some reflections on the story. The right to own means of production is also an old and well-known topic of discussion. Another discussion, which is so far derived from it, and which has been much of the basis for the discussion, is the question of how values are created in the enterprise, whether it is capital that creates them, or whether it is labour that creates them. Here we have also had a discussion where one has had the most marked ideological distinctions between the parties in the Storting – between the right side on one side and the work movement on the other – whether there is work or capital that should be the basis for the influence of the corporate governing bodies. So, the whole discussion about what a person calls democratization of working life is, as I said, both interesting and a debate that one might spend more time on. I'm not going to say anything more about history. But the long discussion that started in the 1800s was brought to a sort of end point when, in April 1972, the Stortinget legalized the employees' right to representation at the company meeting in limited liability companies. And in a few days, we can celebrate the 30th anniversary of the foundation of employee participation. In fact, I was one of the co-sponsors of the proposal adopted at Stortinget on 5 May 1980. I think it is positive that employees own shares in their own company and in other companies. Many do, either indirectly through unit trusts or directly through shares listed on the stock exchange. It can contribute to an increase in the distribution of power, and it can contribute to a greater interest and responsibility for the company's life and life. It is true that there is also some tax incentive for this. And to the previous speaker, that's how this $1,500 limit soon celebrates its 10th anniversary. It has remained unchanged since the Bondevik government increased the limit to NOK 1500 in 2000. This border has survived both a bourgeois government and a red-green government. So it's probably that this deduction may not have been the most advanced in stimulating on the tax side. At the same time, I think there is reason to stress that for an employee, owning shares in their own company can of course be an incentive for increased efforts. There's no doubt about it. But on the other hand, it's actually that the employee will probably be most concerned about, is to provide a job so good that the job is safe and good, and that the job has a chance to survive in the future. It is important that people should be able to influence their everyday lives in general and, of course, also in businesses through so-called co-ownership. I think that a central distinction in this discussion is between real influence over the company's business and whether to bet on the so-called partnership. I belong to those who believe that this influence is primarily to be ensured by the law and by the provisions of the Share Act as they stand today. The government has no plans to extend the tax deduction limit. With regard to the so-called CLASS scheme, I think it really has to be reassuring for the Storting to know that the Minister of Finance is going to properly investigate this and do it in connection with the evaluation of the entire tax reform. There is a willingness to look closely at this proposal, but I will not draw any conclusions at this stage. Then I will also come back to the Storting in connection with other discussions and any proposals to meet the objectives set out in the Soria Moria II Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e374	The ability to get back to the Storting is immediate, because it's going to be a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e377	In the case of employee participation in their own enterprise, there is some research into this. The conclusion is that there are only positive experiences. It provides increased productivity, increased competitiveness, pay flexibility, reduced wage growth, increased innovation, increased loyalty, improved team spirit among employees, increased motivation, enhanced creativity, and more jobs. And if that's what we need at a time of financial crisis and increase in unemployment, it's just this. That is also why the European Commission wants more use of such schemes. And all the hearing bodies are positive about this. If the Minister of Finance does not doubt research in this area, why is it negative to get a broader review of this and get a case to the Grand Duchy on which measures – not just one action, but several measures – can be taken to help more employees become joint owners in their own company, which is proposal No. 1 in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e384	As I said in my post, I'm positive to employee participation in businesses. What I'm a little more doubtful about is whether someone on death and life – excuse the expression – is going to use tax incentives to get it done. As the representative Gundersen said in his statement, referring to the Road Cover, this has grown. He said ‘more in spite of than because of’ the tax deduction, although of course I see that the stock discount has a certain effect. I have nothing against getting wider back to Stortinget to discuss ownership in a slightly larger context. We'll see if we can find a suitable way to do it. But I think that there are some other aspects that are also positive for people to feel connected to the company, which are not only linked to the partnership, but also the fact that you have a legal right to representation, that you see that your work is valued in a good way. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e391	The Minister of Finance's posts were marked by a lot of nostalgia. It may not be so strange, because the Workers' Party and the Labour Movement have built much of their existence on the contrast between labour and capital. The very idea behind making more co-owners is, among other things, to make more co-owners. to reduce the contrast and lay the foundation for modern working life. It may not be so strange that it is the Workers' Party that has slowed down, while we have seen in several contexts that both SV and – as we heard now in the Chamber – the Centre Party are concerned to encourage more people to become partners in their own company. Therefore, the three government parties have also written in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘The government will contribute to increased ownership based on enterprises owned by employees’ — in other words, not government representation, but ownership. [[...]] How will the Minister of Finance promote this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e396	If you're going to draw the historical line, there's probably a reason there's been a certain discussion about whether there's work or whether there's capital that should be the basis for the influence. We have thought – and that was also the background to the proposals that were dealt with at the time in Stortingen – that there is work that should be the main basis for employee involvement, because co-ownership in itself would probably be so limited that one would have little influence in governing bodies. But it's part of the historical discussion. The fact that the Workers' Party is in a way designed to slow down the development of the employee's influence is certainly a mild rewriting of history. Otherwise – and as I replied to the previous line – it is clear that we will come to the Stortinget with an assessment of what is in Soria Moria II. Then we'll also have the words "cooperating and" for the sake of order, and then we'll get it done in a proper way. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e403	The President will remind you that regardless of quotations, the speaking time applies. As it approaches zero, speaking time is nearing its end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e406	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for reminding us that there was a central government that was the last government to promote positive tax proposals to develop private ownership. Maybe it was Lundtägen who was the driver at the time – what do I know? But I wanted to grasp a justification given by the SV in the debate, that we have a system of broad tax bases and low rates, and that it was almost – what to say – systemic arguments to go against having such a tax discount as we have. So my question to the Minister of Finance is: Is it the Government's view that the arrangement we have today – even if it should be extended – is contrary to the tax system we have, as such?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e413	It is no surprise that the Minister of Finance is concerned about the structure of the tax system. And when it comes to either introducing new schemes or extending existing schemes, it can help to erode the tax base. It's that backbone reflex, I think, that's right there. That is one of the reasons why we will also consider this CLASS proposal in the context of the assessment of tax reform. – Now I think I’m pretty good, because now I had half a minute left when the answer ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e420	But the President must note that there are no bonus schemes in this area!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e423	I have a little bit of the same question that the Syverse had, but a more concrete one. As I was inside in my post, there is talk of a cautious escalation. Can the Council of State make this a little more concrete? What is it in the tax system that is hollowed out and complicated by the increase in the current tax exemption from NOK 1500 to, for example, $3,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e428	If any, it expands or increases the arrangements in the tax system, it has its side in view of the tax base. But it is clear that it also has its sides if you choose to give tax relief – to use that expression – given whether this was the right point to make tax relief. For example, I want to do this. recalling that this government has proposed and adopted significant reliefs in the tax on wealth, which will probably also have a certain impact on ownership. At least for those in a wealth position, one can't say with a broad pen that we're opposed to any proposal to facilitate the taxation of capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e434	Let me start by recognising the role that the Minister's party has played historically with regard to giving employees greater influence. There are currently no proposals from any parties to limit that influence by the Governing Board. What we're now discussing is whether to take this influence one step further, that is, by allowing employees to become joint owners and thus gain influence. Several speakers have discussed how it has been addressed both nationally and internationally — the positive effects it has. What we're discussing is how to pass this on, also in the light of the fact that today we have a different type of working life than what we had 20, 30 and 40 years ago, through more knowledge companies, where this is a good tool. So let me repeat the question, but bring the whole sentence from the Soria Moria statement, because it says, «The government will contribute to increased ownership based on cooperatives and enterprises owned by employees.» In other words, there is a clear emphasis on contributing to increased ownership through enterprises owned by employees. How can this be done, according to the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e448	To finish the historic round, it was very gratifying that when this Constitutional proposal was discussed on 5 May 1980, there was unanimity in the Stortinget. That's very good. This means, in a way, that what is to consolidate the general rule of employee participation is through the Share Act and the paragraphs that are there. Then there is no ban on private ownership or employee ownership. One will find examples of many companies where this co-ownership goes far beyond what is given through the stock abate. But as I have said before, we will come back to the Storting with an assessment, of course, and with discussions of proposals and statements and what is stated in the Soria Moria II Declaration. One possible opportunity to get back to that is, for example: in connection with the assessment of the CLASS proposal, which is also included in the discussion and in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e455	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e460	The Minister of Finance has given an interesting exposition on the relationship between capital and labour from the 1880s onwards. In his view, this ended in the 1970s-80s with the rules on participation in the Share Act, etc. But we're in 2010. The power that was in people's hands in the time that Sigbjørn Johnsen describes is now in people's heads, and it's something quite different. That is exactly why this is a very important proposal. It is strange to hear the Minister of Finance say that ownership does not really influence, that it is only co-determination through other legislation that gives it, while at the same time it is thought to be positive for the people who provide it. I know that there are difficulties here in finding good enough arguments for this not to be a positive proposal. I must also say to what is mentioned in the letter from the Minister of Finance to the Committee that this is administratively difficult, that it is not at all. It's just as administratively difficult as the system you have today. And it's no more administratively difficult for the tax rate than all the car systems, than all the telephone systems, than all the arrangements that the representatives in this room have to deal with every single time they've been out and up – nothing more difficult at all. And then you end up in a discussion about broad tax bases, etc. If that was so important, you should actually suggest removing the whole scheme. So just a few words to the SV's representative, who is talking about the political backbone of the Right in relation to not eroding what was in the tax settlement. In this regard, he is actually so free that he starts talking about differences and about poverty. Talking about political backbone in this room and about poverty after five years of government, I think you should be careful. So just to the representative Lundtägen, who I really believe agrees with the Right that one should have this partnership: he flees into something he calls 'obligations' in connection with ownership. Yes, but the proposal only asks for an evaluation. If you wanted to be a member of one of the government parties, you could have a very good influence on that, for example. I find that there are no binding times in a proposal that came to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e473	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e491	It's human nature to put a little aside in good times to have a little bit extra in bad. In modern society, we put money in the bank, we save on funds, or we invest. From a child's infancy, many of us are creating an account for the children to learn how to save. Saving is positive from both an individual and a community perspective. As a conservative, I believe there are some values we have earned that society builds up under, and is strengthened. Stimulating savings promotes positive values. Saving promotes moderation and counteracts waste. In our commercial time, where we are being pushed down by advertisements and offers, and where most of us have more than butter on the food, it is important that we are also motivated to think about more than today. Saving strengthens personal responsibility and increases the ability of each family to make their own choices. Saving promotes long-term thinking and gives each individual greater freedom and opportunity to maintain the standard of living as a pensioner. In addition, saving contributes to the spread of power and to a better balance between public and private. Furthermore, private savings are necessary to secure capital for business. Saving can be used as a means of absorbing purchasing power when the economy is overheating, such as: The Willoch government made through the so-called Value-saving I and Value-saving II. In other words, saving can be used as an alternative to tax incentives at a time when you want to reduce the temperature of the Norwegian economy. When I travel this interpellation, it is because in Norway, over time, we have seen an increasing imbalance between government savings and private savings. In particular, private savings were very low between 2005 and 2008. Secondly, the pressure on public expenditure will increase sharply from a 20 to 30 year perspective, and it would be sensible for more people to save on a private basis in order to ensure the standard of living of pensioners. Of course, it is positive that Norway, through its oil revenues, is in a position to save the state to meet future pension obligations, but it is a challenge that households do not save any more. The increasing pension obligations increase the need for saving in all countries. Therefore, in most European countries pension funds are built up. What makes Norway special is that we almost exclusively save through the state. Norway is in a special state savings position. Where most countries are struggling with large foreign debt, we can enjoy great profits. The other side of the medal is that we're in almost the same position in terms of modest private savings. Where households in other countries save on their own, and especially on pensions, we are comforted that the state will save us. Over the next 30–35 years, the number of pensioners will double. Therefore, until 2050, pension obligations will increase sharply. The same will be true of public expenditure on health and care. Although, like most other European countries, Norway is implementing a pension reform, pressure on public expenditure will increase. A lot of people are talking about the need for new reforms. In most countries, the pension scheme is based on three pillars. It's the public pension, which in our case is the social security, it's the occupational pension, which is linked to employment, and it's private pension schemes. Building the pension system on three pillars creates greater security and better ability to maintain the standard of living as a pensioner. Many are out of the labour market for a short or longer time. For this group as well as for others who wish to maintain the standard of living as a pensioner, private pension savings will be necessary. In Norway, there was also a broad consensus on building the pension scheme on these three pillars, until the Stoltenberg II government with a pennestrek removed the tax deduction from private pension savings in 2006. Although the Stoltenberg government, following an ultimatum by the civil parties during the negotiations on the pension agreement, has reinstated a limited tax deduction, this has had very unfortunate effects. In 1993, there were 200,000 Nordics saving into private pension schemes. In 2008 crowns, the premiums amounted to about NOK 3 billion. In 2008, only 14,000 saved in the new IPS scheme, individual pension savings, and contributions amounted to 152 million. kr. In other words, we are talking about a dramatic fall in the number of private pension savers – from a total of 200,000 to 14,000 and from savings of 3 billion to 152 million. kr in 2008. During these 15 years, the scheme is almost and in principle deleted. The major fall occurred in 2006 when the government brutally broke the agreement with the pensioners. In 2005, there were 111,000 savers — three years after only about 14 000. This is a serious fall in the number of private pension savers. It is rare for me, as a politician, to have had as many and as strong reactions as those that just came in connection with the government's breach of pension agreements with so many Norwegians. I think a lot of people felt like the government broke its part of the deal. The conclusion of a pension agreement is perhaps one of the most long-term agreements that we as an individual can enter into. Other agreements may, of course, have a longer duration, but when a couple sit around the table to discuss how much money to put aside each month in order to be able to enjoy older years, there is a long term underlying this, and it was perceived as a breach of trust when the government broke this agreement. Trust, as I said, takes a long time to build up, and it takes a short time to break it down. I am therefore very interested in listening to what the Minister of Finance wants to give in this area, because Minister of Finance Johnsen has, in many respects, shown himself to be a long-term politician who is concerned about taking responsibility – at least the State should take responsibility. However, it would be very interesting to see to what extent the Minister of Finance would also stress personal responsibility and the balance between public and private savings. The second perspective of the interpellation is related to Housing Saving for Youth. It's a very popular savings scheme that many young people use, and I also think stimulates and builds up under positive values in our society, because young people at an early stage are friends to save, take responsibility for their future housing and build up equity. After the Financial Supervisory Authority has recommended an increase in equity, I believe that this should also increase the possibility for young people to save on their own housing. Today, the scheme is relatively limited, although it has been slightly expanded, but I believe that there should be a good basis for increasing this scheme. Then, of course, the finance minister can say as he said in the previous debate, when he stressed that there is no prohibition on selling shares to his employees. Similarly, he could say that there is no ban on private savings for pensions and savings for owner-occupied housing. But the question is how far we, as a society, should build up under, stimulate and motivate young people to save on housing, and stimulate adult people to save on retirement. Also in this case I have registered that the Central Party frees civil values and sits down with the other civil parties, by the representative Lundtägen on 20 January said to the Evening Post: ‘The limitations of the BSU provide incorrect information to young people.’ And on the other hand, ‘This is an economically small matter for the country, but a politically important matter for the Central Party.’ It is not just an important matter for the Centre Party, but it should be an important matter for all those who want to stimulate young people to take a greater responsibility for equity for their own housing, just as I believe that adult people should be stimulated to take a greater responsibility for their future as a pensioner, and that therefore, as a society, we should also increase the tax-stimulated part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e535	We save for many reasons, both because it gives extra reserves to meet unexpected expenses or if you would get lower income for a period. Saving provides a basis for carrying out investments in housing and education. However, the need to save cannot be seen regardless of how we have chosen to organise our society and the welfare systems that are built up. There are considerable differences in the way the various countries have organised their welfare services. The Norwegian welfare model is characterised by our common solutions. We have a public school offer for everyone, and we have a public health offer for those who need it. Everyone will have the opportunity to get a good education, regardless of their financial background, and everyone will receive hospital treatment without first having to think about whether they can afford treatment. The funding of our common resources is made above the tax bill, which also contributes to a good distribution policy in society. At the same time, it does not mean that households need to save for such purposes. We also have a good pension system in Norway. Social security ensures a safe old age at the time, and the introduction of compulsory occupational pension from 2006 contributes further to ensuring the economy of those who retire. The vast majority of employees are now guaranteed the provision of supplementary pension benefits in addition to the benefits from social security. This was one of the central grips a did in connection with the pension reform, to which a large majority of the Stortinge joined, and where, I believe, the majority of the population did an excellent job in that way. For those who want to save more, we have an individual pension scheme net of taxable profit, which is also part of the pension agreement, that the representative Sanner had in mind. In addition, there are a number of other savings options offered by banks, life insurance companies and others. Overall, the private pension saving has been achieved, i.e.: the sum of individual pensions and occupational pensions increased significantly in recent years. Then there is probably discussion about it – but both economic theory and experience suggest that tax incentives for certain savings products do not necessarily lead to increased savings, but this may lead to a different way of putting savings together. This may be due to several things, for example: because people with relatively high wealth or income use such schemes. They will have opportunities to relocate savings from other schemes to more tax-stimulating savings schemes. This is probably where the inter-pellant and the undersigned disagree, since it is not certain that such measures to increase pension savings are effective in achieving this. In addition, such schemes, such as: the old IPA scheme showed poor distribution effects. The introduction of compulsory occupational retirement provision is thus a more effective way of increasing pension savings than, in my view, tax-stimulating schemes, while at the same time improving the distribution effect. At the end of 2008, the administrative capital of life insurance corporations related to individual pension schemes was approximately DKK 85 billion, broken down into 850 000 contracts. The annual contributions to such schemes have decreased significantly in recent years. It is enough that the decrease in the contribution to individual pension schemes must be seen in the context of the introduction of compulsory occupational retirement provision from 2006. According to figures from the Joint Financial Industry Organisation, it is approximately 1.2 million. private sector workers covered by the occupational pension scheme at the end of 2008. In 2005, before the introduction of a compulsory occupational pension, the number of employees with a corresponding occupational pension was approximately. 600,000. These are schemes that are both defined benefit and defined contribution, and may provide benefits that are significantly higher than the minimum requirements laid down in the OTP Act. The annual pension payments and outstanding capital of occupational retirement provision schemes have increased significantly in recent years. These contributions increased, for example: from 15 billion in 2005 to about 26 billion in 2008. Following the introduction of a compulsory occupational pension in 2006, the tax-favorisation scheme for contributions to individual pension contracts, known as IPA, was terminated, but in 2008 it was replaced by a new scheme for individual pension schemes that allows each individual to save up to DKK 15 000 per year, net of taxable income. At the same time as the introduction of OTP, it was also opened up for self-employed and freelancers to set up a separate occupational pension scheme, cf. the second paragraph of Section 2-3 of the Pension Pensions Act. The risk of loss of income from job loss can be an important reason for saving. In the international context, Norway has had a consistently high level of participation and relatively low unemployment. Unemployment is now a little over 3 1⁄4 pst., which is clearly the lowest level across Europe. The average unemployment rate in the euro area is now up to 10 p.m. and in several countries it is higher. Although some industries have been hit hard in Norway too, there is reason to believe that most workers feel a reasonable assurance that they will be able to keep the job tomorrow as well. This certainly reduces the motivation and need for care-saving. We should view this as a strength. For those who are so unhappy to lose their jobs, it is important that good insurance schemes are in place to ensure the unemployed against loss of income in a shorter or longer period. Another feature of Norway is that people want to own their own home to a greater extent than in many other countries. We have a high share of households' housing, which means that in Norway people's savings in housing capital are very high, compared to other countries. Many countries now have major problems with a strong increase in government debt. It creates uncertainty for the inhabitants. Many in these countries ask whether the State will be able to meet its obligations, such as: in respect of the payment of pensions. Such uncertainty contributes to increasing the saving of households. In Norway, we have managed to keep state finance in order. The framework for economic policy, with the State pension fund abroad and the action rule, are key components that contribute to it. By pursuing sound economic policies and setting aside funds for the future, we are also making it possible for the State to meet its obligations. This will allow us to manage the cost of pensions while providing good public welfare services in the decades to come. It is important to preserve the Norwegian welfare model, with a focus on Community solutions. I think we find that the reason why savings in Norway are lower in some areas is related to the welfare model that we have chosen, and which fortunately has a broad majority in the United Kingdom. At the same time, I also believe that, in general, better household finances and a good wage growth provide the basis for setting something aside for the future, including individually. The undersigned has always been a strong supporter of having money on book, not only for the state but also for the individual. I think it's an important area where, in some contexts, tax incentives can be done. But here the same thing as in the previous debate we had, that this can certainly also be done without a particular incentive other than putting something aside for yourself for the future and for future generations within the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e567	I notice that the Minister of Finance, when explaining the low private savings in Norway, refers to the welfare model we have chosen. But let's look at other countries in Europe and Scandinavia that also have a largely publicly funded welfare model. In Norway, net private savings amounted to only 20 pst. of GDP in 2007. In countries like Denmark and Sweden, private savings amount to over 100 pst. of GDP, and in the Netherlands almost 200 pst. In other words, it is not clear that countries with public-funded well-being have a low level of private savings. I rather believe that much of the explanation lies in the fact that in Norway the state saves a lot, and then most people settle down that yes, then we take care of old age and we will be able to maintain our standard of living through public savings. But both the Minister of Finance and I know that for most people you will not be able to maintain the standard of living through popular security and through occupational retirement provision. For most people it will be necessary to save something private next door. Then the rhetoric from Kristin Halvorsen begins to break through, that the old IPA system was for the rich. But to be honest, it's not like the kingdoms of Norway are saving in IPA or IPS, or what you choose to call it, and it's $15,000, $20,000 or $30,000 per. months. The facts showed that there were common people who saved these pension schemes, and that there were common people who perceived it as a breach of trust when the government with a pen stroke removed the tax deduction for private pension schemes. So I'm amazed at how easily the real Finance Minister takes on the long-term challenges. I have – as I was in my main post – recorded over time that the Minister of Finance attaches great importance to saving the state and being long-term. I could have wanted a slightly greater commitment also to how society can motivate private and households and families to save more, because saving promotes positive values in society, both soberness, personal responsibility and long-term. Therefore, as a society, I believe that we should stimulate more for long-term savings, as private pension savings are.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e576	I think it's important to first establish that both the undersigned and the interpellant seem to be reasonably agreed on the main point, and that there is a link between the way we have chosen to organise the welfare model, and the people's need or desire to save. I think that's a fundamental consensus that it's important to bring with it. But then you can save for different purposes. While the welfare model covers essentially the basic social protection against retirement and income loss in the case of unemployment and sickness, it is clear that it is also important to be able to save in other contexts for more short-term consumption. It's good to have something to wear if there's things that need to be recovered – to use that expression – privately, whether it's inventory or other stuff. So it is important that one agrees on the basic idea that the organisation of the welfare model is of great importance. The pension settlement is important. It is one of the most important issues that the Storting has dealt with in recent years. As part of this pension agreement, this new scheme, which came from 2008, replaced the old IPA pension saving scheme. As I was in my post, a significant part of the savings in Norway relates to ownership of the dwelling. In Norway, households own more than 80 pst. This is very high in international terms, because according to OECD figures, the self-ownership share in the Nordic region is on average between 55 and 60 p.p., somewhat lower in other countries on the continent of Europe. This means that people's savings in housing capital – we probably place most of our savings in housing capital – are very high in Norway, and according to estimates made by Norway's Bank, households' total housing wealth amounted to approximately NOK 404 billion in the second quarter of 2009. There is a significant increase in the current balance of the State pension fund abroad. So I think that now you also have to see the housing saving in connection with what has been a main theme so far in the interpellation. With regard to the BSU, we get back to where it belongs, in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e587	The interpellant addresses an important question. I also believe it is important to save both in order to establish itself in the housing market and in view of old age. Maybe it's right, as the representative Sanner says, that the motivation for saving is gone without the tax deductibility, but I'm really not sure. It may as well be that most people in Norway feel economic security, and by doing so have faith in their own ability to act economically through life, even in old age, and that they spend money on investments other than private pension schemes. As the Council of State said, it is very beneficial to save by owning a dwelling in Norway. Housing taxes are very low, and investing in housing is one of the safest things you do. The dwelling means a lot to us, like a frame around the family and daily life, whether it's at home or on a cabin. That means safe money placement. Many young people therefore use BSU — Housing saving for young people, which is a favourable form of saving to have some equity in establishing themselves in the housing market. Young people can save up to NOK 20 000 and obtain a tax deduction of NOK 4000 per year. There are many who use it, although it is also demanding for most young people to set aside such a large amount of their own income when they are in a start-up phase. However, many parents have good advice, and get money to fill up the BSU account via gifts from them. But for most people it seems better to be able to save yourself. When it comes to raising the tax-free amount under the BSU, as we've seen in the media many times in the past, it's probably more about those kids who have parents or other people who could imagine putting more money into the account than 20,000 a year. It's not a good idea, I think, given social cohesion and equal opportunities in the housing market for young people. The gap is already large enough and the Community funds may be better used by providing reasonable first-time housing for young people than by providing additional tax relief through the BSU. The interpellant points to the fall in the number of pension savings through individual pension schemes and believes that the fall is due to the removal of the tax advantage of such schemes in 2006. I would rather say that the introduction of compulsory occupational pension for everyone from 1 January 2006 can be an equally good explanation. It was a big step forward for all those who did not have occupational pension schemes through the job. For my part, I have worked in the public sector for many years, and some of what created security for the future and old age was membership of the Municipal Landspensionskasse. Having an employer who spent money each month on occupational retirement provision provided security, and even contributing 2 pst. in terms of securing the economy in old age every month, both my colleagues and I considered a good investment. The fact that everyone now has occupational pension, creates predictability and security for many more, and does well that one does not save as much through various private schemes – schemes that have been different savings products of different quality, I would say. Many also save through different unit trusts. In particular, many women use this form of savings, and it's a pleasure. It is a simple form of savings to establish, and easy to understand also for those who are not immigrated in economic theory. There are many ways to save for those who want to take little risk and for those who are more bold. One gets information about the savings product in his own bank, and this type of savings also gives tax benefits. Since it is so easily accessible and easy to control, it is a popular form of savings. At all events, I am not concerned that the Norwegians with good income should not have the opportunity to save – and they save. One can just look around the country and see that we take good care of houses and leisure homes, which are just good savings in Norway. My concern is greater for those who do not have sufficient income to obtain a self-contained dwelling, or who have the opportunity to secure old age. Therefore, in order to strengthen the community of future challenges, it is very important that we save and set aside money in the single account, as we do through the State pension fund abroad, and by investing in welfare schemes that exist for all. In my opinion, it is more important than all the time to be concerned about how to find different forms of tax gain for those of us who earn well in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e608	In the Grand Duchy, it is often the case that we debate practical challenges. These are challenges that are not necessarily political in nature, but challenges that we all agree must be addressed, but where we disagree on the pace, on the scale and on the financial framework. There are such priority debates that are most of them. I want to commend the interpellant for raising a fundamental and ideological debate related to saving. This is an area where there is a real ideological disagreement between socialists on the one hand, who believe the state is best suited to take care of us all, and us non-socialists on the other, who believe that there should be greater responsibility on the individual and that the individual should be given more opportunity. Then we have the representative Lundtigen, who falls like that in the middle. The finance minister knows his Marx. He talked about the labour force and the capital, and who should have the most influence on the company. It may be the best way to maintain that kind of conflict-oriented debate, because then the Labour Party can only keep the manuscript they've had every year. The challenge for socialists, and the Workers' Party in particular, is when one cannot find this great difference between capital on the one hand, and labour on the other. When this is more diffuse, the Working Party does not know exactly where to place itself. It's all about the bottom line of what social views you have, and what policies you think will support such a social view. As a liberal, I have faith in the individual. I believe that the role of the state should be to facilitate conditions so that as much as possible can be achieved on its own. If you give people responsibility, people will also take responsibility. Policy should therefore facilitate such societal development. The guardianship, on the other hand, says that the chance of some failing, that they are unable to take care of themselves, or waste their money, is so great that it is therefore more reasonable for the state to define the individual's needs and provide what you need, and at the time that the state believes you need it. I believe in a social model that establishes incentives to get people to work or to do a little extra -- a social model that links some benefits to professional participation, and that clearly shows that working pays off. It will be worthwhile to contribute. The tax advantage associated with private savings is precisely an incentive to make workers less dependent on the state. Such a system values soberness, accuracy and long-term planning. Such a scheme requires the discipline of the individual worker and rewards those who choose to sacrifice the consumption today in exchange for greater economic freedom in the future. Sociists don't like thinking like that. Their first idea will always be: what about those who choose not to save? These will have much less to travel with when they become retired. Injustice calls socialists, but they deliberately overlook the fact that workers who have used up their monthly income on consumption have made a conscious and informed choice. They themselves have chosen not to save, and then they actually have less money than those who have chosen to save through a long working life. But what about those who don't have fixed incomes asking socialists — and the last representative of Aegean instead. We can't establish a system that keeps these out of the way. Injustice, the socialists cry out. It's completely wrong. It is not at all unfair that people who have been working their whole lives get a tax incentive to save on pensions. It's on the contrary reasonable and completely fair. But what we in this room agree on is that people who, for various reasons, have not been able to contribute to the labour market should have an economic safety net funded by the state. I have to bring a little kick to the Right, even if we agree on this matter. Because there is little doubt that the Progress Party and the Right have a unified view that saving is self - worth. It is a good sign that people plan and take responsibility for their own future. And so as I understand the interpellant, he wants this kind of saving to replace some of the public savings, because as he said: «Member States save a lot, while private savings are low.» It's an increasing imbalance. The question then arises as to why the Right so deeply and completely and uncompromisingly stands by a randomly chosen rule for oil money use. Why this intense concern for the rule of action? Fairly enough, one can give priority to the rule of action, which has been the right mantra – and that is quite reasonable – but if the aim is to transfer savings from the public to the private, the rule of action is the most important obstacle to such saving.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e637	First, I would like to commend the interpellant for raising an important issue, for then actually going straight to the Little Commentary of the Progress Party to the Right. I think some of the point of an action rule is to have a level of interest that is so low that you actually have the money to set aside for saving. In fact, the alternative use of oil money by the propulsion party increases interest rates, so that instead of saving for own use, households actually sponsor the use of banks. That's a big difference. Stimulating savings, as this case is about, is ideology. It's about freedom. It's about responsibility. It's about management responsibilities, and it's not least about the ability to save and influence your own money at different stages of life. It harmonizes well with the ideological divisions that prevail in the Storting today between the bourgeois side and the red-green side, and it is clear that once again the electors of the Central Party will see themselves served by a bourgeois government in this matter as well. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of state savings, but at the bottom, as the interpellant says, in terms of private savings. When you save, it's important to know what you get at the end of your savings. In other words, the Right wishes to have a change in the savings amount, and under the red-green government, there have been so many weaknesses in private savings schemes that it is going to go untrustably. The growing generation learns how to put tapes on. You learn what the Minister of Finance says in almost every single speech: having ‘peeng’ on the book. So it's true that private people teach young people to have good attitudes and that they learn to take responsibility for their own lives, for their own housing, and not least their own age by having a buffer capital. The state, as the interpellant Sanner says, can't always do the job for us. Sometimes you actually have to do something yourself, and then it's about developing schemes that just ensure this. Another positive effect of savings schemes that stimulate increased savings is, in fact, to secure even more private capital for business, which ensures greater understanding and participation in business, in the stock market, and that self-ownership democracy is given a function, as the previous case actually dealt with. In addition, incentives to save reduce price growth also prevent expensive consumer loans for very many young people. For the Right, it's incredibly important with head and tail on the policy. The right is that you want to save, and then you don't have to start this process of increasing taxes and taxes that the red-green government has as its main business, in order to reduce the capital for which each family has the opportunity to save and decide for themselves what they want to spend the money. That is why the Right wants lower taxes and taxes in general, but so it is that when you finally put money into saving, you do not actually want to punish it by taxing it as wealth along the way, but with withdrawals. But those who have been saving for many years are generally premiered, not by the housing tax that we were able to abolish, but as the government is now introducing the back way by increasing the equation values. You get increased wealth associated with living, you get increased wealth if you've actually managed to save money in the bank, and you get it in relation to a inheritance fee. The sum of taxes and taxes on the income side, i.e. at the start of the basis for saving, harmonizes poorly, based on the Right's thinking, when, in addition, it is taxed very high in the final phase, and now it has torpedoed quite a number of schemes that make people save along the way. People respond to incentives. People respond to tax increases and tax reliefs, positive and negative. So what we've seen, as I think the finance minister should look a little bit closer, is that they say that there are rich people who benefit from private pension agreements. It's, with respect to reporting, wrong. The rich people can take down a painting and sell it, and they've fixed the problem. This is actually for ordinary people who save a few thousand extra patches a month, which allows them to bring their grandchildren on a little vacation in new and new. That's what this is all about for most people. The same applies to the BSU. It's not about the rich kids. They get the parents to pay the house and home separately. This is something Lundtigen should be able to deliver to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e658	It is natural that there is less private savings in Norway than in some other countries, such as Norway. The United States, which has fewer public welfare systems. There is absolutely a need for people to spend money on the education of children, on possible illness, on old age, etc. The finance minister explained the differences between Sweden and Denmark, which are likely to save a lot in housing, and that we also have quite attractive interest rates, which may make it attractive to raise loans. The representative Sanner said that in Norway the state saves. Another way to say it is that we save together by paying for a pension, a pension that people trust. I think it might be a little problematic to make too much uncertainty about whether people should have confidence that they get a pension that they can live on. You could say that it says something about the level of ambition of the Right regarding welfare goods. But our ambition is, of course, to be able to live well with the pension you save together. On the other hand, it is important not to encourage a materialistic culture in which all the money is to be spent on the same day that we serve them, regardless of the future. There is a lot more discussion, where the solution is probably not to launch some savings products with tax deductions. It's about the whole pressure people are subjected to: using credit cards, using money today instead of thinking ahead. There is a discussion that we should like to take, but as I said, it is about more than some financial products. This is an important matter for the Right, and it's natural. The right is talking about increased tax credits to their wealthy voters who have extra money that they can set aside, and they also want their party to make sure that they get tax credits in order to get it, tax credits from ordinary employees. When we talk about rich people, it's clear that there are people who are so rich that they can take down a picture from the wall and solve their problems in old age. But there are also clear differences between who has extra money to set aside for pension schemes and who do not. There are differences that, if we stimulate them with tax credits, help to increase the inequality. I spoke in the previous case about backbone in relation to poverty. I did that because I'm not satisfied that we have an increasing difference in Norway, and I think we should fight it. Then it has to be far ahead in the mind of all things, even in things like this, where tax laws will increase the inequalities. Housing savings for young people are a good example. It is a positive response, and it is good that young people can save and get an incentive to do so. However, the ceiling should be such that it can make the most of it, not so high that there are only a few that can make full use of the scheme. I get a little envious when the representative Tybring-Gjedde says that the Minister of Finance is the Marxist in the Chamber on this matter. It should have been SV. But then Tybring-Gedde takes ideology to the full when he says he wants to make workers independent of the state. It's the same argument that makes it so important in the United States that workers are given the right to carry weapons, because you can't trust a single state. I am concerned that we can actually rely on a common state and will defend the one who ensures that all important benefits for the inhabitants are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e673	Saving is linked to security, and security is one of the most important things. In Norway, we have a high level of security in our welfare systems, i.e. saving through the community, tax on ability. When the country can save so much, it is not least through ownership of natural resources, the right to dispose of natural resources and the taxation of natural resources. It's hugely central to bringing with us when we're talking about public savings. Saving private invites to think long-term. It invites you to think carefully and carefully in relation to material consumption. It's building. It's a healthy mentality. It's a great social value. In Norway, individuals save outstanding values through housing. It is outstandingly positive, and Norway is a model for many other countries. There are few countries – I can't think of any – that have such a large proportion of the population living in their own homes. It's not considered enough. But remember, saving applies to those of us who have more income than we need for normal living in a high-cost country. In many debates on saving, I think the many who sort the bills at maturity are far too little. There are far more people who sort what bills you have the ability to pay at maturity than we know. What I'm talking about now is not about those who are not naked, but about those who are naked, who have poor income opportunities for hard work compared to the level of costs we have in the country. Therefore, if you're really going to do something for saving and saving, maybe the way to do it is to reduce the tax for those who have low incomes for hard work – I'm thinking of those who earn less than 150 kroner, who are also little heeded in this room. The representative Sanner used the word "sleep" as an alternative to saving. Yes, we have the saying ‘what comes easily, easily goes’. This also applies to the highest amount of money, and today's waste is a grotesque thing to look at. I think that we, as political leaders, who have high incomes, have a role model role model in waste, because it's a big cultural issue, what is now developing, and I think that this issue too is far too little heeded. In the view of the Centre Party, therefore, saving and stimulation must also be seen in a distribution perspective: who will enjoy strengthening the savings opportunities? From our point of view, strengthening savings is important so that we get greater self-sufficiency economically, socially and culturally – it is an important asset for society. Therefore, e.g. With regard to interest rate policy, when we are doing little good to ensure that savings are made in relation to borrowing, as is the situation with the current level of interest rates, it should perhaps suggest that a person should not have a tax on the first interest rate. It can stimulate saving within naked values. With regard to youth and the BSU scheme, housing saving for young people, many young people have very good advice, very low costs compared to the work they receive before starting up a family. If in this context you can have a culture linked to saving for your own home, it's exemplary. Therefore, the BSU should be strengthened by both the annual amount and the total amount. In the case of housing, the possibility of owning a genuine dwelling must continue to be maintained – a genuine dwelling in relation to its size. But we are in a difficult situation in the opposite direction when we now have an unlimited debt-rate deduction while the properties that can be borrowed in the millions class do not have any kind of income. Then we get a culture that goes far beyond what was meant by our housing stimulation. And, as many people have been talking about, we're also going to have a reference to those who have to rent their own home. Finally, the use of scarce financial frameworks to stimulate pension savings is not the line of the Centre Party. What is our line, on the other hand, is to stimulate the modernisation of an operating appliance, so that one gets a modern operating appliance. This applies both to society and to families in the future. That's where we have the biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e690	First, thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important theme and a theme that helps to make certain lines of division visible in this room, although in this case, as in the previous case, there is a significant difference to trace also between the representative Lundtigen and the representative of the Workers' Party, Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, and SV's Aegean. So there's good reason to think that this is something that's not entirely a common policy from the government parties. I am perhaps of those who were somewhat positively surprised when the Prime Minister held his New Year's speech, where he began to talk about the seven fat years and the seven lean years, with a clear reference to a very well-known report in the Old Testament. I would like to support the Prime Minister's understanding of reality in this way, even though there has been a little lack of practical follow-up since the New Year. But, as the representative Sanner, the interpellant, was in, it's a good tradition in Norway that you put aside to have something when the situation turns out different. But we do not come from, even though the Workers' Party and SV almost try the opposite, to show the fact that in Norway we save very little on private hands compared to very many other countries, that we lend much – and too much – to the state that saves us. Then I agree that there is a difference with some other countries, and that is housing saving. It's clear that a lot of people in our country put their savings into their homes, and it's also going to be a real estate to be able to borrow when you like. transition to retirement age. We agreed on this with individual pension savings, but that scheme is now so weak, with an annual savings amount that provides a tax deduction of NOK 15 000, that it is not very attractive. I want to challenge the Minister of Finance that in the coming budgets this amount does not increase relatively, but at least nominally, so that the amount is the same as when we entered into this agreement between the Government Parties and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. As it is now, with the inflation we have, etc., it has never been a less incentive to save in that scheme or similar schemes. In the case of BSU, there is a very positive arrangement. I'm a little surprised that Gerd Janne Kristoffersen again says that well, these are the ones who have money from before, or they get money from their parents, and that they are the ones who benefit from such a scheme. I think there are a lot of people who benefit from both this scheme and individual pension savings as such. The figures also show that this is not a savings system for those with the most money – this is something that everyone can use. I fully support what Mr Lundtegen said in this way, that we should develop this further, also because we see a trend. I saw that former Prime Minister Willoch had come so far that he would virtually ban credit card use. This suggests that the attitudes around saving are on the waving front, that you borrow over the pipe and in addition take up loans for clean consumption. Also, it should be possible to look at this again. Maybe we have changes in the saving pattern of a new generation that is not exactly of the most positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e702	Let me start by thanking you for an interesting debate, which, like others, I believe, makes some differences in politics clear. Let me then answer some of the issues that are addressed. First to Tybring-Gjedde about the state pension fund abroad. I think it is absolutely right and necessary to save money in the state pension fund abroad, and we should save more. Oil income is a wealth converted from oil to capital. It must benefit several generations, so the rule of action is both correct and necessary. So to the SV's obvious need to figure out why the Right has so much commitment to private savings, where there comes up a lot of ideas that we're going to satisfy the rich, etc. I'll recommend the representative occasionally to listen to what's said, because I talked about promoting positive values in society. I believe that saving promotes personal responsibility, soberness and long-termity and the spread of power in society. That's the values I'm concerned with promoting, not necessarily how much money this is about in dollars and cents. Otherwise, I am pleased to note that we may disagree with Per Olaf Lundtigen about much, but we obviously agree on the importance of stimulating housing savings for young people. I also record that the three government parties are very descriptive in the debate. You describe what the situation is, and you give very little expression to how you think it should be. This may be an expression of satisfaction with the situation. In Norway it is quite natural that we save less. We refer to our welfare model, and we save a lot in housing, and we conclude that it is quite natural that we in Norway save less. Yes, it may not be so strange that we in Norway save less, but then the question to us as politicians is: Are we satisfied with such a situation? Or should we, as politicians, in an abundance society like the Norwegian, motivate households, families and individuals to save more? I mean the last one. It may not necessarily be a liberal starting point, but it's a conservative starting point: there are some values it's important to motivate in our society. And then saving is something that's positive, because it promotes personal responsibility. And then you can do the same or not the same thing, but tax incentives will be a tool to get this done, as well as what signals we give as politicians. Obviously, if the Minister of Finance and senior politicians are standing and saying that it is quite natural that we save less, because the state is going to cover up everything, yes, there will be no more private savings either. As politicians, we should also show leadership responsibility and motivate people to save more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e715	I would also like to thank you for the debate. I think that interpellation debates are quite polite because then you have a slightly more freer agenda – a little plus/minus of course – compared to being able to exchange opinions, which is a lot of the point of running politics. So you're going to make up your mind about things, too, which is a different point by running politics. I think it is important to stress – as I said before – that there is a fairly large consensus on the welfare model. That's good. On the one hand, it can help reduce the need for less private savings at macro level. At the same time, it is also that the state saves us in many areas, making some of us, who have fairly good income, really get more ability to save. So there's kind of two sides here that it's important to bring with it. This is also the case, and it has been repeated in this debate, that there is a broad consensus that the state should continue to have high savings, not least in order to meet the major challenges we see in particular in relation to the ageing of the population, which is coming later. I also think that is another aspect of what is important, but which we can come back to in other contexts, namely that good welfare schemes funded by the community can also, in isolation, contribute to a lower cost growth in society than what we would otherwise have, and that is important for the creation of value in society. And of course, there's a balance between consumption on one side and saving on the other. Having a reasonable growth in private consumption is good for the economy, but then you can always ask questions about what is reasonable growth in private consumption, and what is consumption that is beyond what you should have. There are different ways to mitigate private consumption without me going into detail. I think that one of the most important things we can do to stimulate savings in general is that we keep order in the economy, that we can keep low inflation in society, and that people have a security that we politicians are in order in the care of the siblings. BSU, savings and limits are such things that belong in budgetary terms, and it is natural to consider them in that context. Then I just want to end with what both the representative Syversen and the representative Sanner have been talking about, that there are some important values that we should pass on to our children. Accuracy and economy are two such values. I can assure the President that it's not easy, but I'm doing the best I can to get it done!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e732	The President is sure that it will be highly valued, both at home and away, as it is called. That being the case, it is no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e748	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e757	Today, we are discussing a draft representative, Document 8:36, from the representatives of Ropstad, Davøy and Eriksen from the Christian People's Party, on abortion prevention measures to halve the number of abortions by 2013. The document proposes nine different proposals which, in the view of the proposers, could contribute to this. It has been a good thing to be the case rapporteur for, because there is a great deal of cross-political agreement that it is important to prevent abortion. The Committee agrees with the main features of the case. It is important and necessary to put the theme on the agenda at regular intervals to reduce the number of abortions – focus on it, and look for new and other solutions that can improve the situation. There is reason to be concerned when, despite the efforts at much more information, knowledge and transparency, we see that the number of abortions is increasing. There are particular reasons for concern about the age range of 20–24 years, where abortion rates are increasing most. We may expect that this age group has received a lot of information and can do a lot about preventing pregnancy. We are looking forward to evaluating the measures specifically targeted at this group, such as increased availability of prevention. If this proves to be effective, the Health and Welfare Committee considers that it should be followed up. Even more attention must be paid to education, especially at school, and the Committee is pleased that new material has been developed. New times require new approaches. There are more possibilities, including for the social media. The Econ report shows that we have a lot to do with school education compared to other Nordic countries, such as Denmark and Finland. In those countries, school plays a greater role than it does in Norway in investing in prevention. We should see what they do, and we should learn. It is also important to underline, as we do in the setting, the role of health centres. They often see young people, they can talk to them, and they're good guides. Youths rely on the service, and it is easily accessible. This is why it is important to invest even more in a good school health service, but also in youth health services with offices available at night. Specific actions aimed at specific groups are also necessary. Special minority groups and other vulnerable groups where it is important to adopt measures are mentioned in our position. This must be followed up further. The Committee is also aware of the work that has been done, inter alia: made by Sex and societies here in Oslo, it is important to build on. They provide education for young people, as well as health care for all over the country — and they make methodological books and offer them. Such low-threshold services need to be developed and taken care of. The offer is free of charge and when many groups are not otherwise reached. There are many thousands of young people who receive counsel and guidance in this ministry. Amathea, Suss and Klara Clock should also be mentioned. There are many measures and all contribute to achieving the target of reducing abortion rates. As important as preventing abortion, it is to provide good information on sexually transmitted diseases, so that infection and late complication can be avoided. It is important to learn both girls and boys to take responsibility for their sexual lives and to teach them to prevent unwanted pregnancy. In our position, the Council of State has given good answers in its letter to the Committee, and indicates that there is work going on. We also record that decisions have been taken in this Chamber – i.e. in the budget – that are now being followed up. The Committee looks forward to the concrete measures resulting from this. The Committee also looks forward to the announced action plan. There are some minority comments, with different constellations, in the case. These comments are mainly structured around the proposals put forward. The government parties have not gone into the various proposals, but we propose to attach them to the protocol. I expect the various rapporteurs to take up their own proposals and justify them. I still believe that the consensus in this matter is great. All batches consider prevention important and necessary. Everyone thinks we need to be better informed. Everyone believes that we should have different offers that both take care of the information section and take care of those who have had an abortion. I refer again to the action plan, which I expect contains many of these measures and issues. I also expect the Council of State to follow the debate here today and take it into account in the further work on the action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e794	Abortion, or abortion, has probably been going on forever, and we have evidence of it all the way back to the year 500 B.C. Abortion has also been discussed several times in this room. Abortion was, as is known, permitted in Norway in 1964. At the time, local abortion students were going to approve the abortion request, and there were different practices around the country regarding who was granted an abortion application. Many were rejected, which in turn resulted in a large number of illegal abortions. I remember when I went to real school at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s, in my own home country, Eastfold, it was difficult to get abortion. We heard about – and known – girls who had ‘the port of the Wulkah’. They refused their request for legal abortion, and in absolute desperation there were some who rode on the sleepers between the railway tracks – with the danger of being run over by the train – hoping to shake the fetus loose. Or the so-called wise women who were equipped with knitting pins and vacuum pumps. Some of the girls also went to Oslo where there was a slightly more liberal practice of legal abortion — and at the same time a wider range of places where illegal abortions were carried out. This situation led to many and heated debates in the 1970s. In the circle of friends, I remember that we were written off an answer: are you for or against abortion? For one thing, this was probably the first big ethical dilemma I remember having to decide: What was a life – when was it a life? Should one take the most account of the pregnant one, or should one take the most account of the unborn one? And what if the girl had become pregnant as a result of an assault? What if there was a great chance that the child was born with major malformations? What if the pregnant woman was unable to take care of the child? This is quite a big and complicated problem to deal with for a person who is at the end of his teens, and there is no fascist response. The debates we heard on radio and television showed us that it was not simply for our elected representatives and the political parties either. It all culminated in the adoption of the Law of Self-Defined Abortion in 1978, first with the double voice of the President of the Odelstination and then with one voice's overweight in the Creation. The law of abortion has always been controversial, but the trend is that there is an increasing number of people who are subject to self-determined abortion. For the Progress Party, we consider the subject of abortion to be a matter of life's views, and in such cases the party's representatives are set free. I think it's a strength for a party to accept that different people have different life views, and that there's a ceiling for the different opinions and approaches in such value issues. I think it is important and right to keep the debate on abortion going and to keep up with the development of society in this area. The Christian People's Party should therefore have the honour of putting the matter on the agenda, even though we know that with a majority rule at the rudder, which little listens to the opposition, it all boils down to a purely labelling policy. The number of abortions in Norway has been quite stable over the past 30 years, although the number of women of childbearing age has increased. It is between the ages of 20 and 24 that we find the highest rate of abortion, but it is also in this age group that we find many pregnant women. Proposalers want to put in place an action plan to halve abortion rates by 2013 and to list a number of proposals to achieve this objective. The Progress Party, as I said, feels that it is positive to focus on measures that can help reduce abortions, but we believe that, unfortunately, there is not much realism in believing that it is possible to halve the number of abortions in a few years. There are many and complex reasons why people end up in such a situation that they want abortion. We believe that the school together with parents and supervisors has a very important task of enabling children and young people to make their own choices. Sexual education, prevention guidance and counselling are therefore essential. Cooperation and mutual understanding between school and home are very important, and this must be done in such a way that young people do not feel extravagant or negatively exposed. Knowledge and access to the diversity of different public and non-profit organisations specialising in providing advice and guidance to young people to prevent both pregnancy, reduce sexually transmitted diseases and follow up pregnancy through pregnancy is, in our view, very important. I would like to show that the Progress Party in its alternative state budget has allocated 5 million. kr to the Amathea Foundation, which in our opinion does an important job in this area. I would like to stress the importance of much more information work focusing on possible late effects after abortion. Feelings of guilt, grief and other psychological and physical distress that may result from an abortion in the wake of a cold water attack are important to provide best facts-based information. We have noticed that the State Council has informed Stortinget that there will be an action plan against abortion on the part of the Government, and we will meet it. I think there's a cross-political consensus that no one wants a trend towards abortion being an alternative to contraception. I have noticed that all parties except the Advance Party believe that there is reason to consider giving free or subsidised prevention to the age group 19-24. With all due respect, the Progress Party believes that this is the wrong way to go. I am not comfortable with the tax money I pay in order to get better hospital services, schools and roads, going to give powerful people subsidised condoms. Many of the unwanted pregnancies occur after sex in the affected state. I want to claim that if you're tough enough and mature enough to buy you alcohol and have sex, you also have to be tough enough and mature enough to go to a store and buy yourself a condom. I recently heard of a nearly 60-year-old lady who had become pregnant through life with different men, and who had carried out 21 abortions. I think there's something quite different than state-subsidized condoms that are going to do to prevent us from getting more in this category. With this, I will be allowed to address the proposals to which the Progress Party is associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e817	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e820	For a moment I thought when I heard the representative of Hunter Gåsvatn, that I had entered the wrong debate, that it was the abortion law we discussed, and not preventive measures to reduce the number of abortions. But first I want to pay tribute to the proposers for putting abortion prevention on the agenda. There is a cross-political consensus that it is important to reduce the number of abortions, but despite this, abortions are at the same level as they did in the 1980s – yes, it is actually a small increase. That's what the Right believes is worrying. Over the years, many prevention measures have been implemented without any apparent impact, and the increase in the age range of 20–24 years is greatest, especially in Troms and Oslo. Therefore, it is positive that a trial project has been carried out with increased access to prevention for this age group and in these areas, and we hope that it will have an effect on reducing abortion rates. The right agrees that the subsidised prevention scheme for the age group of 19 to 24 is continued and the health centre service for young people is doing a very important work on prevention guidance and counselling. Both nurses and midwives are actively involved in this work. Targeted sexual education at both health and school centres is important, and it is necessary and good that new material is developed in primary school education. I would like to highlight in particular the good and important work carried out by, among other things. Sex and society, center of young sexuality, in Oslo. They provide advice, prevention guidance and run free evening outpatient clinics for young people up to and including the age of 25. I would also like to highlight various telephone services such as Klara Klock, SUSS and the school health service. Good lowthreshold services are very important and necessary, an offer we need to maintain and further develop. I would also like to highlight the work that Sex and Society do with a methodology book for primary school on the mission of the Health Directorate. In addition, I would like to bring forward the Amathea Foundation, which has been doing a good job of providing information and guidance specifically for young people who have become pregnant for many years. Right-wing promote, together with others, a proposal to ensure support for counselling and assistance to disadvantaged pregnant women through organisations like Amathea, and I wonder that the government parties will not support this proposal. The right also supports the proposal to introduce better counselling and information for pregnant women with a particular focus on maternity rights, support schemes and information on the possible mental and physical consequences of an abortion. I would like to stress that it is important to focus more on research in this area. We don't know what kind of aftereffects an abortion can have. As a midwife, I have been working with women who have had an abortion for several years, and we have seen and experienced that even for many decades to come, they may have repercussions. That's why it's important that we get more knowledge so that we can give the right support and care. Because many people are mentally struggling for an abortion, they also have to meet an auxiliaries who show them respect and who have time – and knowledge – to support them in a difficult situation. The right is satisfied that a new action plan against abortion will now be presented together with other concrete measures, but I have to say that it has taken too long to complete this plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion. I now hope that this work will continue, and I will ask the Council of State to give an answer as to when we can expect such a plan to be completed. I'll take up the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e843	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e846	I ask for the word to underline the broad consensus in the Committee on – as it says in the vote – that abortion prevention is continuously put on the agenda because the number of abortions in Norway is rising. They increase most among younger women between the ages of 20 and 24, with Troms and Oslo at the top. In addition, significantly higher abortion rates are recorded among some ethnic minority women over 25 years of age than among women with ethnic Norwegian backgrounds. Although there are external conditions that it is not possible to capture in preventive public work, we cannot settle down on the increase in the number of abortions. Then it is gratifying that the trial project of free contraception for this age group carried out in Tromsø and in Hamar has been successful, and that the abortion rates there are halved. It is important that these very experiences are carefully evaluated and followed up. The Council of State has provided detailed information on what is being done at the level of prevention at committee level. It is shown, among others: to a variety of offers of good information. Lowthreshold services are readily available. It mentions, as many people have been involved, Amathea, the Center Sex and Society, telephone services such as Klara Klock and SUSS, and not least the school health service. They're doing a very good job to prevent it, and they're going to be very grateful for that. It is important that this part of the service is given good and predictable framework conditions under which to work. Since 1990, four action plans for the prevention of unwanted pregnancies have been implemented. Many important measures have been taken, such as free pills for girls between 16 and 19 years of age, but as mentioned above, the objective is not achieved. Here comes the fifth plan. I will not foreshadow what comes there, but just underline what seems to have a good effect, namely good availability to – preferably for free – prevention. The pilot project has shown that it produces results and that priority should be given to young women aged 20 to 24. It has also been assessed – and it is interesting – a project to extend the law that health sisters and midwives today have to prescribe hormonal contraceptives, to more than teenage girls. Finally, it is important to underline what is stated in the view that more targeted school education is important. School plays a very important role in raising the awareness of the responsibility of girls and boys for their sexuality and health. The latest Econ evaluation report shows that in Finland and Denmark, in particular, the school plays a greater role in this field than it does in Norway. I think we should look at how Denmark and Finland integrate this into school. I will not comment on all the proposals that have been raised, but only stress the broad consensus that this work is an important priority in the years to come, and in particular among the younger ones up to the age of 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e865	Despite four action plans since 1990 to prevent abortion, abortion rates in Norway are increasing. Unfortunately, we must recognise that the main political objective, to reduce the number of abortions caused, has not been achieved. The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party is therefore entirely in place. Now, no politician or political party is going to disagree on the goal today, that abortion must be reduced. The Christian People's Party offers many good concrete proposals, proposals for which the Central Party has a great sense. The main reason why we do not support them today is that the Council of State in its response announces that the Government's action plan in this area will be launched in a short time. Then we think it's right to see the proposals in this context, and that we get a whole-hearted case that also focuses on the public health perspective. It is a fact that safe prevention, to which the authorities want to stimulate, does not prevent the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases. Clamydia infection in young people is increasing. This is very serious. P-pill use can actually contribute to this, as other protection is not being used. Another time is the use of an attacker. This must also be evaluated in the action plan. This pill was prescribed and released for sale in shops and service stations as a measure to get abortions just down. Now a total of 160,000 doses are sold a year in Norway, while the number of abortions is increasing. Why is that so? Has increased access to and hall of prevention only led to a change in sexual habits, rather than reduced abortion rates? These questions show the need to look at the approaches in this area in a holistic way. A proposal from the Christian People's Party is that abortions should be halved by 2013. I totally agree that this is desirable. There are too many abortions in Norway. But personally, I think it's going to be realistically difficult to make such a relatively dramatic change in just a few years. Here, too, there are changes in attitudes, changes in sexual habits, which will take more than two years. In the first place, we may have to fight to reverse the trend and ensure that the increase does not continue. The reason why abortions are high is compounded. Not all factors are equally easily affected. We have e.g. a trend towards women generally wanting to wait until they have completed education, have gained work experience and a secure economy. Women between the ages of 20 and 24 have had the highest rate of abortion among women in Norway in the last twenty years. The central party agrees with the Christian People's Party that it is important to look at measures for this group. A pilot project in Tromsø and Hamar shows positive effects on abortion by means of free, or contribution to hormonal contraceptives. This can therefore be an important measure. It is also important to get targeted sexual education, to look at the financial rights of pregnant women without birth grant rights and to get extra targeted measures against groups where abortion rates are high. The Central Party therefore looks forward to the Government's action plan. The proposals, which we are debating today, have to be considered more closely in this plan. Finally, I would like to remind you that the age of 20 to 24, which is the highest abortion rate, physiologically and physically, is a very favourable age for having children. This is a dilemma when we are about to introduce measures, such as: Free contraception to reduce abortion rates in this group. We must never forget to stress that having children in their 20s is positive, both for parents and children and not least for society. This must be an important element of abortion prevention and in the action plan to be adopted by the Storting in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e882	This is one thing to think there was a large majority behind, both when you hear the debate and when you read the party programmes to the individual parties. I guess there's no political party that doesn't think it's important to prevent abortions. Despite the fact that it has been, and is, such agreement, the action from this room is absent today. We shall vote for more than nine concrete proposals for action by the Christian People's Party, which can give the desired effect this room has previously asked for and demand today. There is good reason to take this debate seriously. We see from the statistics that the numbers of abortions in the last few years have been consistently high, and we see that there has been an increase. The overall objective of society should be to ensure that we have such good arrangements for pregnant women that a woman chooses to keep the child on which she is carrying, even if the pregnancy is not planned. For women early in the 20s, three out of ten end pregnancies with abortion. There are different reasons why women choose to have abortions. Economic uncertainty is still reported for women as a reason. Several also express that pressure from the pediatric patient is a cause of the abortion. I believe that in 2010 we should be able to conclude that no one in Norway should have to commit an abortion for financial reasons. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that we, as a society, have the power to make economic arrangements that make it easy to bring the child forward. That's why we're proposing to increase the disposable support for pregnant women to 2 G. In a letter dated 24 February 2010, the Council of State expresses a concern that public benefits such as disability benefits, reinsurance, rehabilitation benefits, transitional benefits, day-to-day benefits or birth grants from the Loan Fund, together with a one-off benefit of 2 G, will in many cases be greater than parental pension. Here the Christian People's Party believes that an assessment of how this performance we are now proposing should be seen in the context of other public benefits. But let not such a concern as the Council of State expresses, stop us from raising it today very low the one-time support. Another important element that needs greater recognition is the aftereffects of abortion. In Sweden, studies show that half of the 30,000 women who have abortions each year go through emotional reactions in retrospect. In a doctoral thesis from the University of Oslo, Anne Nordal Broen, a supervisor and specialist in psychiatry, states that one in five women has psychological consequences five years after abortion. Women who have committed an abortion should be met by a stronger support device through more information on possible after-effects and information material from health care institutions on who can be sought for specialised help. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party that are promoted in the vote. These are very concrete proposals. We want a plan to halve the number of abortions by 2013. We want free contraception for all women between 20 and 24 years of age. We want to increase one-off support for pregnant women, better counselling, and we want more research on aftereffects. Here we have the tools. Only political will is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e900	The representative Filip Rygg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e903	The nine proposals from Ropstad, Davøy and Eriksen on abortion prevention measures to halve the number of abortions by 2013 are comprehensive and affect several policy areas and the responsibilities of several departments. I share the concerns of the Health and Welfare Committee and the proposers about the increasing number of abortions. I am therefore pleased that the Health Directorate has now completed a new Action Plan to Prevent Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion 2010–2015. The action plan is a continuation and development of previous action plans in this area. It follows recommendations from the evaluations of the previous action plan for the period 2005-2009. The new plan has a broad perspective and describes overall strategies for better sexual health and safer sexual behaviour in the population. Since the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion concerns more sectors than health, the plan contains several concrete measures in other sectors. The evaluations of the previous action plan further recommended focus on the main strategies, but concluded that they should be given more attention in terms of target groups and follow-up responsibilities. The new action plan has two overall objectives: to reduce abortion rates and to contribute to the best possible starting point for all to plan pregnancy and have a safe sexual life. Key performance targets in the plan include, inter alia: a steady decrease in abortion rates, a greater satisfaction for the target groups of the plan with their sexuality and increased use of safe methods of contraception. The plan also includes strategies and actions aimed at groups with a particularly high incidence of abortions, including those targeting groups. This applies to girls aged between 20 and 24, more of whom have been the subject of the debate. The proposers refer to trials in Tromsø and Hamar with free hormonal contraceptives for this group. The SINTEF evaluation shows that there has been a very positive decrease in the number of abortions in the experimental municipalities. The Health Directorate will make a recommendation on how to follow up the experiment during May. The recommendation will include both professional assessments and an assessment of the administrative and economic impact of the introduction of such a scheme across the country. The broad framework of the action plan is in line with the international research and knowledge available in this area. Satisfaction and security in their sexuality are important factors for the use of prevention and, therefore, for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion. Such security requires long-term work in several arenas. Knowledge must be built from an early age through continuous learning. Education and information need to be adapted to the different stages that children and young people are undergoing. Previous evaluations have shown that children and young people are satisfied with what they are learning, but that much of the training is too late and that it is not adapted to the challenges facing young people. That's why more people have been involved with the school and the importance of it. The plan emphasises that knowledge, advisory services and prevention should be made available even more easily. Finally, I would like to stress that work to avoid unwanted pregnancy and abortion prevention needs to be seen in the context of social conditions outside the target groups and scope of the plan. For example, press releases, the Internet, social media and the use of mobile phones pose new challenges in promoting sexual health and a safe and healthy sexuality. It is important that new strategies and measures include these challenges. I am sure that the new action plan will help us with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e926	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e929	The Government Parties agree that the system of subsidised prevention for the age group of 19 to 24 should be considered as extended. It means, as I understand it, that the Council of State has to find money within its own territory. The question then arises: What chapters in the health and social field will the Council of State deprioritise in order to provide eligible persons with subsidised prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e934	I have said that in this particular case with free contraception and the pilot project that has been, it has shown that the number of abortions has fallen into the test municipalities. It's a positive development. However, no decision has been taken on how this may be continued, because it is clear that this has a cost framework. Here we are waiting for a recommendation from the Health Directorate, and we expect it to come in May, because you have to see what effect this has on the assumption that the number of abortions has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e939	There is no doubt that financial arrangements can provide security for women facing difficult elections. I would like to ask the Council of State if she agrees that no one should have an abortion in Norway for economic reasons. The second thing I would also like to think of is why the plan has been postponed for as long as it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e944	In terms of financial arrangements, I would say that it is very important to secure the economy of women who come into a difficult situation and who themselves experience that they are in a difficult situation. I fully agree that then you should come in and support in many ways, and there are many different arrangements to assist those who are struggling today. With regard to the specific proposal to have a one-off benefit of 2 G, I would just like to remind you that it is a proposal that involves an economic amount of 1.5 billion kroner. It is not a type of proposal that can be adopted in any way outside the budget. Moreover, it is necessary to consider whether such a large financial amount can be used to achieve the same effect in other ways. But the intention and goal of bringing down the abortion numbers is actually the important thing. That's why we work in several ways to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e951	In the previous period, there was a similar proposal for a representative, with some similar measures, including: a trial project on free contraception for girls between 20 and 24 years of age. A while ago, we got the result, and the Council of State has mentioned it. The project in Tromsø and Hamar showed that among the The number of abortions was reduced by 50 pst. When the council answered a question instead, I thought she had an unlikely defensive approach. My question will be to the Council of State: when one has such a good and successful project, why does the Council of State not want to set in motion and make this a mandatory scheme, so that one can reduce the number of abortions across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e958	As I also said in my post, I am well aware of the trial project that has been, to give free contraception to girls between the ages of 20 and 24. Then I went on to say that there's going to be an action plan that's going to be public with the first. The Health Directorate shall make professional recommendations in relation to this plan. They'll come later, during May, I expect them to come. We will decide on this when all this is available as a complete material and as complete recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e963	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e968	I have to say that it has been good to hear the debate. There have been many good speeches, and not least there has been a great deal of cross-political agreement on the proposals. That's what I think is incredibly good. It shows a staggering attitude today that one actually wants to take the challenge with the increasing number of abortions seriously. In the previous period – when I was inside being – on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I received the honor of promoting a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce the number of abortions. At the time, there was also a great deal of unity — and the responses were down. However, one promised that an action plan would come — and other types of schemes — where such measures would be addressed. Nevertheless, I have seen very little about it. So my questions are: do we really want a decline? How truly is desired, and dare we set our goal? It's easy to say that a person wants to reduce the number of abortions, but do we take the consequences of what we say? Do we have concrete measures that will help? It is also easy to say that we should have a zero vision against bullying or a zero vision against fatal accidents in traffic. It's relatively difficult to achieve that, but we see goals. There's a lot of agreement in this area that we want to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies, the number of unwanted abortions, but it might be hard to imagine that a person is able to avoid everyone. But setting high targets thinks I'm important – to set goals that we're going to achieve. In the previous period, a free trial project that we have discussed before also went in. It showed that one can not only reduce, but halves – just as in the aim of the Christian People's Party in the proposal for a representative – the number of abortions of those who participated in the probationary system. It turns out that it's actually possible. Therefore, I wish that the government had come with a reply rather quickly or at least voted much more positively in this debate. I have to say that it is quite absurd that the support schemes for young pregnant women are almost non-existent. In all other debates we talk about the wave of older people, we talk about major labour challenges, we talk about the need for more children. So, on the other hand, you want to reduce the number of abortions. Nevertheless, a person is unable to help the young women who today report that they are taking abortion for financial reasons. It's a paradox. In the cold water of «brainwashing» I also found it interesting to discuss research around abortion. There are some things that it shouldn't be abandoned, which it's not right to research. But here, there's an unlikely consensus that we want to reduce the number of abortions, or unwanted pregnancies. This also means that if we want a reduction, we also need more research because we need knowledge. We need knowledge to find targeted concrete measures that we know work, because today, unfortunately, many of these girls are left to themselves – society is not putting up with the schemes that we should set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e982	The proposals that Stortinget is discussing today, we hear that there is a great deal of agreement – at least the goal. The Christian People’s Party’s proposal for ‘a plan to halve abortions by 2013’ should therefore perhaps have been adopted unanimously today. No batch is intended to have the highest possible number of abortions. It's important for us to reduce the number, no matter what the point of view. I had hoped that we now, when we discussed this matter again, had come a little further than when we discussed this last, that we dared to come up with some measures, some concrete matters that we knew would have an effect. In the past, the size has been able to gather on issues and measures that have been good, e.g.: in relation to students and pregnancy. The Tora Aasland Council has, at the request of the Stortinget and a proposal from the Christian People's Party, reviewed legislation and support schemes to make it easier to have children in the study period. Abortion prevention is also effective and, as we know, it is important to put in place. We know that the number of abortions is increasing most in the 20–24 age group, and we also know that this is the time when you have a very good biological starting point for having children. But many in that age group are just students. We women have had a successful development in that we now take longer education, we get high education, we participate in the labour market. Then it's a paradox to me that we haven't been able to join society in making arrangements that make it possible to study and have children. My mother's women's fight was to be allowed to work and have children at the same time. Maybe today's women's fight is that we must be allowed to study and have children. There are concrete proposals in the proposal that we are discussing here today, which could give economic security to women who are studying and who are having children. Or if you're so unlucky to just finish your studies and not get into work – one is left with a student loan and gets a start that I realize can be insecure about whether you're going to be able to handle financially. Economic uncertainty is one of the reasons why young women in their 20s are having an abortion. It should be in a society like ours that economic reasons for choosing abortion were not present. When a woman does not have earned rights through work and gives birth to a child, the one-off benefit should be increased. The Christian People's Party wants it to be increased to 2 G, which makes you get a security in the beginning when you're going to follow a new person on the way into life. I had hoped that we had more specific decisions with the plan that went out in 2008, and that we would not have to wait any longer until we have a new plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1000	The right to self-determination over one's own body, and thus the right to self-determined abortion, was and is one of the most important victories of the Norwegian women's movement. This isn't a right anyone has to take for granted, and it's a right far from all women in this world enjoying it. It went 65 years from Norwegian women first formulated the requirement, until the law came into force in 1975. As others mentioned earlier in the debate, before that time one had to hold the hat in his hand and weigh and measure it by a name that would decide whether or not to grant his or her application for abortion. The compromise made in 1975 gave women the right to self-determined abortion until the 12th week, although the medical limit for when abortion is proper is later. In SV, we believe that the remainder of the denominator must be removed, and that it should always be a woman’s own choice – within the medical limit. We know that in countries where self-determined abortion is not legal, many young girls die from the complications of illegal abortions. Women's struggle and gender equality have often been about the ability to determine their own bodies. The issue of abortion has been very central in this fight. Let me from this pulpit stress the importance of maintaining self-determined abortion as an opportunity for girls in Norway. But of course it's an advantage to avoid abortion if you can. It is always a goal to reduce unwanted pregnancies. That is why I think we should continue to work for better and more accessible prevention, for better sexual education with a focus on our own borders and for a health centre for young people. I would warn against proposals that want to tighten up girls' ability to prevent, to prevent emergencies, to attack, or to abortion. I share Mr. Rygg's opinion that no one should have to commit an abortion for financial reasons or because of pressure. But let me also add that no one should be pressured from taking abortion because of moralism or the imposition of guilt and shame. When we discuss how to prevent unwanted pregnancies, we need to be careful to avoid them. Finally, I would like to say that abortion is primarily about the right to determine your own body, and that I hope that everyone in this room wants to protect today's abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1015	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1031	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1040	First, I would like to thank the proposers for taking the initiative to raise this issue again for Stortinget – the proposal to convert or establish the Radium Hospital as a national centre of competence for cancer treatment, research and development. One may in many ways say that the proposal is unnecessary because the Radium Hospital is already a national centre of competence in these areas. However, the problem is that there are clear plans that will lead to the disappearance of the Radium Hospital as a concept, thereby weakening the possibility and framework conditions for further development of this as a national centre of competence in the treatment, research and development of cancer. Thus, a little bit of the essence of this case is related to the brand name ‘Radium Hospital’, which is a very important element of what today constitutes Oslo Cancer Cluster, which is actually one of the leading medical research environments we have in this country, and one of the few that also have a shining star internationally. So one might ask if it is necessary to take that kind of discussion in Stortinget. Yes, it is, because this is such an important area and a concept that has been established both in Norway and internationally for a long time, that the Stortinget cannot sit still and watch that through bureaucratic arrangements and masonry, one tries to avoid taking responsibility for the developments that are now taking place, namely that this name is becoming a name in parentheses on some business cards. The size has previously been involved in this issue and put its foot down, and it is therefore very disappointing to see that the government parties in the health and care committee during this majority period do not have the same courage to put their foot down against the bureaucracy as the government parties had in the previous majorization period. It is a shame to register, and it is likely to mean that the term ‘Radium Hospital’ may become a historical concept in a very short time. The minority consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, ask the Government to ensure that the Radium Hospital is secured framework conditions for further development as a national centre of competence for treatment, research and development in the field of cancer. The same minority also asks the Government to ensure that the Radium Hospital continues as a brand name, regardless of its organisational location. We believe it is fully possible to do this within the reorganisation planned within Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital. This also affects the discussion related to the second flagship in the Oslo Cancer Cluster, namely the Cancer Register, where one has seen both through a Ministry investigation into the national health records and, not least, through statements by the State Secretary for Public Health, that attempts are again being made from the bureaucracy and the civil service to counterfights related to the Kreftregister’s brand name and organisational location. Earlier on several occasions, the size has reduced the type of experiment and established that the Register of Cancer should be maintained as a separate organisational unit under Health South-East. This is also addressed in the comments, and I am keen to hear the Minister of Health's feedback on this, and not least, if the Minister of Health intends to give in to the pressure from the Office, how the Minister of Health has intended to come back to the Storting in order to possibly get an assessment of such a change, since the Storting has thought of this issue in the past. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1057	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1060	The Radium Hospital may be the medical centre of excellence and the knowledge environment most advanced in research, treatment and development in Norway, in an international context. It is vital that we develop this further as well as possible so that it can develop into a locomotive in the national and global fight against cancer. It is a challenge and a danger that the Radium Hospital is now being subjected to Oslo University Hospital. This means that the brand name and competence are fragmented. We can't let this happen. Today we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party to transform the Radium Hospital into a national cancer competence centre. The environment at Montebello, where the Radium Hospital, Oslo Cancer Cluster and the Cancer Register constitute the pillars of what should constitute the centre of competence, is a unique environment that has gained great international recognition. Last week I was in Houston, visiting the MD Anderson Cancer Center. Today, the Centre has 18,000 employees dedicated to research, treatment and cure the cancer. It was kind of amazing to see, but unfortunately there were also some prospects for cancer that were told to us, which only underlines the importance of continuing attention to this area. They actually figured that 40 pst. a cancer diagnosis in some way during life was contacted by the American population. Unfortunately, the figures for Norway are not much lower. But it warmed up in particular that no matter who we talked to, in this one of the world's most important research environments on cancer, they talked about the cooperation they had with the Radium Hospital in small Norway. It says a little bit about what the "standing" Radium Hospital has in the big world. We like to believe that we are an important nation in many areas. In this area, we're actually that. This must be cultivated and further developed. All brands, whether research, mineral water or jogging shoes, must be maintained by a continuous, conscious and focused work behind them. In fact, brands themselves become a quality, even though we know that it's the patient treatment and the research that brings us on. But participating in an internationally recognised research environment with proper focus and, not least, proper and predictable frameworks could attract research competence from around the world. Another thing we were briefed on in Houston was the stem cell research that was carried out there, and how far they had come. They've already, after a long time of research, started treating people with adult stem cells, and that with great luck. For an important part of cancer treatment was actually not to let anything be out of the question. Patients were not informed that the hospital had no further options, but were made aware of the possibilities such as: were also under experimental treatment, with the possibilities and risks involved, of course. This had, among other things: contributed to major leaps in particular stem cell research. Also in Norway, we have taken the first steps in establishing the Stemcell Centre. All the honors of the Workers' Party, who stood with the Advancement Party on it. But now is actually the time to move on. Not least, you need a target-conscious resource effort. A national centre of excellence will have a very unique ability to be a locomotive, and we want that locomotive to be the Radium hospital. This could be supported by a separate entry in the State budget. This is important, so that you do not get into a situation where the economic priorities of a pressed everyday at Oslo University Hospital should not go beyond the Radium Hospital and the research and work that is going on. It is important that we build a national locomotive in the field of cancer and in several other areas. We cannot fragment the competence in this area beyond our long-term country. Both patient considerations and research suggest that we should pool competences and facilitate further development at Montebello. I hope that the bulk of the population sees the importance of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1081	In this regard, the Government Party will demonstrate that the proposals that are being taken up here are in a short time carefully commented and discussed on two occasions in the Storting – by the Minister of Health and Care, in his answer to written questions and in the inter-pelling debate on 4 February. The proposers believe that the Radium Hospital should be turned into a national competence centre directly under central authority, and not, as it is today, subject to Health South-East. They also want the Radium Hospital, as a national competence centre, to be incorporated into the State budget as their own entry. The proposers also ask the Government to ensure that the "Radium Hospital" is passed on as a brand name. Health South and Health East were merged in 2007. Through St. Prp. No 44 for 2006-2007, the merged region was entrusted with better coordination and resource use in the region in general and in the capital area in particular, to the benefit of patients. The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee of the Grand Duchy, including the representatives of the Advance Party, joined the Government's decision to merge. The pre-accession meeting in Health South-East on 27 November 2008 confirmed the decision to create seven areas of disease. One of them, Oslo University Hospital, was established and would include the former Ullevål University Hospital, Aker University Hospital and the Rikshospitale, which consisted of the Rikshospitalet and Radium Hospital. Based on this, the Government Party believes that it is not right to support the proposal for a new reorganization, where the cancer area is extracted from a holistic organisation of the specialist services. We will demonstrate to the superior objectives and organisation of the specialist services as set out in the Health Business Act. A comprehensive organisation of specialist services will promote interaction between disciplines, for the benefit of patients. In the case of the ‘Radium Hospital’ to be passed on as a brand name, the Government Party will demonstrate that this has been thoroughly debated and clarified by the Minister of Health and Care, both through the answers to written questions and in the February interpellation debate. The name shall be passed on in an appropriate manner within the hospital organisation defined by the Stortinget shall be applicable in the capital area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1094	This case, like many other cases, shows that hospital policy takes on people and creates a great deal of commitment. Hospital institutions should take care of our health and safety. We must therefore ensure that the name conveys this security. That is why the Christian People's Party supports maintaining the name «Radium Hospital», because the name has established itself in Norway as something we trust. Everyone probably knows someone who's been treated well there. Cancer affects approx. every three persons in Norway during their lifetime, about 26 000 people each year. Therefore, it is essential to ensure good treatment and research on cancer. The Radium Hospital should therefore be further built as a national centre of competence. The Christian People's Party also agrees with Bent Höie as regards the Cancer Register. The Christian People's Party believes that the register should keep today's organisational location. The purpose of the capital process is to ensure an overall hospital structure in the capital. Efforts shall be made to coordinate science and research in the capital. It is good, but in such a process it is essential that the child not be thrown out with the bath water. The changes must lead to better trade unions as a whole. Changes often cause fear, because we don't know what comes out of it. As I see this proposal, it is meant as a contribution to the ongoing process of what is important to preserve and develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1107	The proposers ask the Government to start work on transforming the Radium Hospital into a national centre of competence for treatment, research and development in the field of cancer directly under the Ministry and not subject to Health South-East RHF, as it is today. A national centre of medical competence aims at building up competences in research, dissemination and knowledge, improving national cost-effectiveness and ensuring equivalent access to competences. However, a national competence centre is not primarily intended to provide patient treatment. Responsibility for national centres of competence is linked to the regional health establishments and regulated by a separate regulation. There are already a number of national functions and centres of excellence in the field of cancer, organised at the Radium Hospital. Regional health enterprises have overall responsibility for the organisation of specialist health services, including cancer treatment. Cancer treatment and research are currently taking place in all regional health businesses. This is in line with the leadership of the National Cancer Strategy, which highlights the equivalence of access to cancer treatment regardless of residence. Cancer treatment is currently taking place in interaction with other medical disciplines and is not an isolated speciality. In order to ensure good interaction and overall patient progression, it is important that we do not withdraw cancer treatment from this whole. I therefore believe that it is not relevant to establish the Radium Hospital as a national competence centre with a separate post on the state budget. The proposers also ask the Government to ensure that the Radium Hospital continues as a brand name. This case has been dealt with on a previous occasion, when Stortinget dealt with the interpellation from Per Arne Olsen on 4 February this year. As I communicated then, I also believe it is important to maintain the brand name Radium Hospital. As you know, the merged Oslo University Hospital HF, which consists of the former university hospitals Ullevål, Aker and the Rikshospitalet, has worked with new logo and selection of profile. The conclusions of a wide-ranging group of representatives from all former healthcare companies were presented to the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital HF in December 2009. The board of Oslo University Hospital HF supported this. By choosing the profile and expression mode, they want to strike a good balance between building a clear and clear profile around the new health company and maintaining the identity, specificity and history of the former hospitals, such as: Radium Hospital. The board was satisfied with the process and agreed to the conclusions of the work. Health South-East has previously made it clear to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in letter of 19 June 2008 that the brand name Radium Hospital will be continued based on the suspension of the Health and Care Committee and that they will follow the fact that the name Radium Hospital will receive the identity and profile exposure in Oslo University Hospital as foreseen. In a written reply to Mr Olsen's representative, I also underlined this. The letter says: ‘Health South-East RHF has previously made it clear to the Ministry of Health and Welfare that the brand name Radium Hospital will be continued based on the attitude of the Health and Care Committee and would follow up on the fact that the name Radium Hospital will receive the intended identity and profile exposure.’ [[...]] I'll take care of this, of course. Finally, I would like to mention that I consider it very important to take care of and further develop our top treatment and research environments in cancer, because people with cancer are a large and growing group. There are great opportunities to develop new and better methods of previous diagnosis and more effective treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1129	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1132	I thank you for the article. I'm recording what's said about brands. I have also registered a previous response and I appreciate it. But I have unfortunately also seen some of the things that Health South-East and Oslo University Hospital have done with the profile work. It's not comforting so far. As the representative Höie said in his post: you don't take care of a brand by having the name at the bottom, in the fourth line in a parentheses. But I choose to believe that the Council of State is going to follow up on this, and is waiting in suspense in that way. In my post, I was in stem cell research. The Labour Party has been at an initiative of the Progress Party. We all know that the future lies in that kind of research. Not least we saw in Houston what we can achieve. So far, records have been created, but there has been nothing more than words. Can we expect proper appropriations for next year's state budget for stem cell research?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1143	I myself have been and opened up the National Center for Stem Cell Research. I agree that this is a very important matter and a very important area of research and cancer research, not least. This is, of course, something that we prioritise, and which is just an important area of cancer and the research environment that has been addressed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1149	Besides the Radium Hospital, the Cancer Register is a flagship in Norway linked up to Oslo Cancer Cluster and the environment that we see again internationally. It has been very important that the Cancer Registry retains an organisational location that makes it a patient-related research register, close to clinical practice. This is also the main reason why the Storting has intervened on several occasions against the efforts of an ardent official to register the cancer register under the National Institute of Public Health. We are once again seeing new advances related to this, and if the Minister of Health is planning to become the first Minister of Health to give in to this pressure, how does the Minister of Health possibly intend to involve the Stortinge in such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1154	The Cancer Register is an important person-identifiable register that has given a lot of knowledge from it was established in 1951. I am very concerned that in several areas, such as cancer, there is a common register and an underlying quality register, as the Stortinget decided just before Easter. It's very important, and it's important that we have this in different areas. At the same time, it is important that these registers are linked to a top professional environment and the research environment, as the Cancer Register is now. There is no contradiction between that and having a coherent common national health record policy. I consider this to be very important in order to have the necessary control of the registers, which, not least, the Right has been very concerned about – how they are organised, how they are arranged, and how they are used for research and for patient treatment knowledge. This is an area I'm very concerned about, and which I'll follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1163	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1168	First of all, I would like to point out that the matter that lies here is of relatively important importance. This is a matter that also gives external signals, whether or not you are willing from Norway to join in and show that the force against cancer is something we also want to participate in. Sometimes we have to do someone very good to make others come after and be good to them as well. The Radium Hospital is, in fact, and has been, over time, one of the treatment sites in Norway that has also resonated internationally, not only in Europe, but also in America, with what has been done at the Norwegian Radium Hospital. So the big question is, is the organization that we have chosen today, right for this hospital? My personal position is perfectly clear: No, it is not. I will mention some examples that just show that one has gone in the wrong direction: first, it was the name to be removed, after decisions and discussions within the healthcare company. Then there were still problems and discussions related to the patient hotel. Then we have also seen discussions related to the Cancer Register, the location of the Cancer Register, who should be responsible for and control of this, etc. Yes, over and over again we have seen ways of attacking this that have not been lucky. The Radium Hospital should be a pure-bred, highly competent centre that should increase competence elsewhere in the country, to ensure that those who are out at university hospitals etc. are able to receive guidance and advice, and thus be even better treated. Oslo Cancer Cluster is also very important to look at in this context, which Per Arne Olsen's representative has been involved in, including what has to do with the construction of such a stem cell research center. I am very surprised at the rejection of the Government's position in this matter. For everyone in this room has, at least in the past, expressed that the fight against cancer is going to be one of the really big challenges that are facing us in the years to come. Then it's strange to use the argument that the Council of State here makes for why you shouldn't have your own centre of expertise for stem cell research, and also to be able to maintain the Radium Hospital as a separate national centre. I hope the Government will in the long run turn around here. Norway needs a hospital like the Radium Hospital as a national centre in order to improve our situation locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1203	Health services are available to heal, relieve and comfort. However, a modern health service with many actors, advanced technological equipment and medications with side effects also leads to adverse events, injuries and deaths. It's hard to relate to this happening, and there's a danger that we'll unconsciously put a collective veil on the issue. But there are too many people who experience adverse events, many who are suffering pain, permanent loss of function, and there are many who die. That is why this is a major issue for healthcare and a major issue of health policy. It is a political responsibility to create systems that minimize unfortunate events, and it is a political responsibility to travel and conduct the debate so that unconscious, collective veils do not cover a difficult area. The knowledge base on adverse events in Norwegian healthcare is not good enough. We do not have good figures from Norway on the damage and death caused by health services. Nor do we have good figures for the extent of adverse events in Norwegian healthcare. In its official estimates, the EU has assumed that between 8 and 15 pst. of patients admitted to hospital experience adverse events and that health-related infections affect one in 20 hospitalised patients, i.e. 4.1 million. patients with hospital infections every year. This factor alone causes 37 000 deaths in the EU area per year. years. A detailed survey from the Netherlands in 2006 showed that 5 pst. of all hospitalisations were due to the misuse of medication and that half of these errors can be prevented. The survey shows that in the Netherlands there are 19 000 submissions per year. years due to medication errors, and 1200 patients die as a result. The OECD has studied avoidable deaths in health services and found that about 5 000 deaths in the Norwegian health service were of the sort avoidable deaths. The knowledge centre has produced an estimate in 2010 showing that if the mortality in Norwegian hospitals had been kept to the level found in the 25 pst. The best Norwegian hospitals, 7,000 lives would be saved. So we don't know exactly how many unfortunate events happen in Norwegian healthcare, but we know that there are many. We don't know how many people die, but we know that there are many. At least half of the unfortunate events can be prevented. Then we have to have a safety culture throughout the service and an organisation of the learning work that works. How are we gonna do that? The EU has adopted guidelines for patient safety work. These involve the establishment by each Member State of an official policy and the establishment of a national unit for patient safety. Furthermore, patient safety shall be included in all health policy programmes at national and local level. The patient role should be strengthened by inviting patients into the design of policy programmes, and patients should be made aware of patient safety standards, risks and safety assessments. The ability of patients to make qualified choices shall be strengthened. Furthermore, it is central that the establishment of reporting and learning systems is disconnected from the sanctioning authorities, so that health professionals can report adverse events in an open and non-punitive environment. Within the EU guidelines, it is also possible for patients and relatives to report their experiences. The EU guidelines also include stimulating patient safety education and training, establishing an effective and transparent patient safety programme and establishing a system for immediate action in the event of major patient safety incidents. In Norway, we established in the spring of 2007 the National Unit for Patient Safety as proposed in the National Health Plan for 2007–2010. The unit is a national centre of competence for the response to adverse events. National patient safety unit develops information for patients, conducts educational activities, has initiated the establishment of a national patient safety research network, organises the annual patient safety conference and organises patient safety follow-up training courses for doctors. In addition, the National Unit for Patient Safety has started to develop a reporting system for patients and relatives. The ability of the unit to become a powerful tool for improving patient safety is limited by the fact that the unit does not have access to the notification of adverse events and by the fact that our reporting systems are not disconnected from the sanctioning authority, as the EU and other international authorities consider best results. International recommendations are clear. In order to create transparency and trust in a notification mechanism, sanctioning systems cannot be linked to the notification system and international scientific literature recommends that reporting systems be separated from sanctioning systems. The WHO, the Council of Europe and the EU have made such recommendations to their members. There is reason to believe that several thousand patients die each year in Norway as a result of adverse events. What can we do to simplify this to an absolute minimum? In my opinion, the following elements are important: We need a national patient safety policy with relevant and good instruments. There must be an open and secure notification system, where the intention is to learn from errors and near-failure. Such a system should not be linked to the sanctioning systems. Furthermore, we should collect all the messages nationally. As a minimum, this should apply to notifications of the serious incidents. We should also implement national patient safety campaigns. We can only reduce the unfortunate events if all events are reported so that we can learn and improve the systems. The large number of adverse events is due to system errors. Complete reporting is a crucial source of knowledge for learning and then changing, so that adverse health care events can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1244	First, I want to thank the interpellant, Health, for raising a very important question. There is a broad consensus that patient safety is important. It also showed the interpellation of Anne June Iversen that we dealt with last week. Health services are available to help – do not harm patients or expose them to undue risk. I have had strong meetings with patients who have been exposed to unfortunate events, and relatives who have lost their loved ones. Such meetings make a strong impression, and I want to fight for patients in a vulnerable situation to experience safety and trust in health care. The EU and the World Health Organisation expect at least 10 pst. of all hospitalisations results in an undesirable event of death and permanent suffering as a worst-case consequence. We do not know enough about the extent of adverse events in Norwegian healthcare. Several mechanisms are in place to promote patient safety in healthcare. The Patient Rights Act shall contribute to the provision to the public of the necessary quality health care within specified time limits. State health oversight supervises, both event-based and planned, in order to ensure that the services are operated in accordance with the legislation. It is the Health Authority that manages the reporting obligation under Section 17 of the Health Personnel Act and the Special Health Service Act § 3-3. Health professionals shall, on their own initiative, provide supervisory authorities with information on matters that could endanger the safety of patients. In the case of events that have caused or could have caused significant personal injury as a result of health care, the hospital shall report the incident to the Health Authority as soon as possible. Health surveillance is obliged to intervene against establishments and health professionals acting contrary to the law. The work of health surveillance is also important for the prevention of adverse events. They shall provide advice and guidance to health professionals and establishments in the light of findings from supervision carried out. The educational and prevention perspective is therefore central to the work of the Health Authority. It is important that adverse events are handled and monitored locally so that experience can be used for learning and prevention. Knowledge and recommendations from the World Health Organisation and the EU are based on the fact that adverse events cannot be avoided, but that we can learn from them to prevent and reduce the incidence. The emphasis is on changing the culture of healthcare and creating transparency on both adverse events and near-events. The question is not ‘who is to blame?’, but ‘how could this happen?’ and ‘how should we avoid it happening again?’ In the 2007–2010 national health plan, we have stressed the need for a cultural change in healthcare in the direction described by the EU and the World Health Organisation. The National Unit for Patient Safety was established at the Knowledge Centre in 2007 to support the health care work in this area. In June 2009, the EU adopted recommendations to improve patient safety. Recommendations are based on the fact that learning, prevention and knowledge development are the way to succeed in patient safety. These recommendations also underpin Norwegian policies in the field of patient safety. In 2011, we will launch a national patient safety campaign. The goal is to reduce adverse events in selected areas where we know that there is an improvement potential. National patient safety unit is now gaining experience and knowledge from other countries’ campaigns. I believe that a targeted campaign will provide the basis for sustainable results both in the areas of response and in quality and patient safety in general. It's important that events follow up where they've happened, so we can learn from them. That is why we must have good local reporting systems. Internal control regulation requires all health and care institutions to ‘provide an overview of areas of activity where there is a risk of failure or lack of compliance with regulatory requirements’. Since 2007, the Ministry has focused on internal control and risk management in the governance dialogue with regional health businesses. It is a managerial responsibility to establish a good system for reporting adverse events. Employees shall feel safe to report. A survey carried out in the winter of 2009 by the National Unit for Patient Safety shows that the work on patient safety is being anchored in the line of our hospitals. In several hospitals, managers are included in the quality committees, and managers and control demand increasingly information about patient safety. In three out of four regional health establishments, electronic reporting systems are in place and attention around them helps to change the culture, so that several events are reported. This is good, but the messages are too little used to produce cause and event analyses. Here we have to get even better. I have therefore called on regional health companies in 2010 to ensure that serious events related to patient treatment are used to learn from. Of course, the most serious incidents shall also be reported to the Health Authority, as required by law. As you know, I want to establish a test scheme for even better follow-up to the most serious incidents. At the business meeting this week, regional health undertakings will be required to report serious incidents to the Health Authority immediately. Health oversight has been given the task of setting up a call-out group, so that they quickly exit and obtain relevant information on such cases, both from healthcare professionals, patients and relatives. The legal certainty of health professionals will be ensured where the call-out group is involved. I stress that this system should ensure the supervisory follow-up of the most serious incidents. The Ministry looks at the possibility of transferring the management of the notification obligation relating to the Special Health Service Act §3-3 from the Health Authority to an independent body with learning as its purpose. National Unit for Patient Safety at the Knowledge Centre has been proposed. This will require a change in the law, and in that case I will come back to Stortinget with such a proposal, but this work is in progress. The aim must be to achieve the most comprehensive national system of patient safety in line with international knowledge and recommendations. It is understandable that the fear of press redundancies and sanctions from colleagues, managers and health supervisors causes many people to hesitate to report. At the same time, transparency about events is the only way to identify and learn from risk areas. As mentioned above, I have focused on the importance of having good local reporting systems for regional health companies, where management needs to facilitate safe reporting. By moving the National §3-3 scheme from the National Health Authority to the National Unit for Patient Safety, we get a reporting and learning system from local to national level to which no penalties are attached, with the aim of promoting the learning and prevention of adverse events. Patient safety is important. We must have systems to ensure the follow-up of the most serious incidents from a supervisory point of view, and we must have systems to ensure the follow-up of events from a learning perspective. The aim is to prevent and reduce the number of adverse events. It is a management responsibility at all levels to facilitate the creation of a safety culture within its own area of responsibility. I know that those who work in healthcare are concerned with quality and patient safety. I also know that this work is ongoing in healthcare today. However, in order to create a sustainable safety culture, patient safety, together with other quality work, must remain high on the agenda. I will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1278	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good article, an article with significant content. In Norway, we have come a long way on the legal side with the Patient Rights Act and the work of the State Health Authority. The national health plan for 2007 to 2010 identified a need for a cultural change in the direction indicated by the EU. I therefore think it is very gratifying that the Council of State will look at the possibility of moving the so-called § 3-3 messages to a purely learning system and acknowledge that it will require a change in law. When it comes to proposing such, I will do a good job of supporting the proposal. The topic of patient safety is a formidable challenge. We don't have these numbers, but there's maybe 2,000 deaths a year -- maybe there's more, maybe there's fewer. Either way, it's very large numbers. We have to do something about this, and then it's important to work in the right order. It is fundamentally difficult to understand why the issue does not rank among the top when health issues and policies are discussed. Former rector of the University of Tromsø, Professor emeritus Peter F. Hjort, wrote in 2007 a book of bad health events: a textbook. Here's 190 pages of examples, tables and calculations and 500 source references in this area. I met the author last week in preparation for this debate, and he was not satisfied with how far we had come. His analysis included:: Both the book and our approach are for fact-oriented and speaking to our heads. He said, we have to win the hearts to get this done. That's why he completes in these days, at an old age, a new book, which doesn't look at facts and tables, but looks at the stories of 50 single patients who have been exposed to unfortunate events. And when we read stories about the birth injury, about the leg that needs to be amputated, or the family that has lost a son, we might understand that this happens all too often. I look forward to this debate and the interest in keeping an important theme high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1291	If there's something wrong with us, if we get sick, everyone thinks we'll be well cared for in our health care. That trust is also important for us. So we know that it happens wrong, and then we hear some stories from the real life that -- I have to say -- oblige us to do everything we can to build good systems around patient safety. The fact that an organisation can learn from the mistakes that are being made is very important. The fact that you also work with the culture of the organization, changing behavior, is absolutely necessary. I think – with all due respect for a good health care system, because we do, after all, have everything in Norway – that we have a lot to do with building good cultures and good systems. There must be good cultures, as I also said in my post instead, and good climate in order to alert, because that warning is absolutely necessary if we are to be able to learn from the mistakes and get better. Then there are especially two things that we have now taken hold of, and that I am absolutely convinced will bring us on a still right path. One is the establishment of the call-out group — which will be important to follow-up on the most serious health care issues — which is intended to move out immediately, and where the reporting will then be done to the Health Inspectorate. So that's what we're looking at that will require a change in the law, but it's just as important, and it's about... it's completely silent for me, President. If I go down and sit down, I might get it back. I think I just have to go down and look up again, if I can get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1302	The Council of State has the opportunity to come back to the matter at the end of the debate. Let's move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1307	Although there was a little bit of silence for the Council of State, at least what she said was clearly to perceive there that the work on patient safety should at least not stand still. So I would like to thank the interpellant Are Health for addressing such an important topic. This is a topic that we really cannot focus enough on. And thank you to the Council of State for good answers and positive signals. A modern society is marked by hazards and risks of accidents. That is why we have extensive prevention work in many areas. We're working to prevent dirt and snow, but it's still approx. 15 fatal accidents per year. The work on food safety throughout production is important. Nevertheless, we assume that maybe 20 deaths per person. years due to unsafe food. We have strict rules for fire safety and preventive controls. Nevertheless, 50–80 people perish in fires every year here in the country. Traffic safety work has a high priority. Nevertheless, 214 people were killed in traffic in 2009. The concepts of food safety, fire safety and road safety are established, contain content, and the efforts in these areas deliver results. The concept of patient safety is not similarly established; the safety challenges in healthcare are proving to be significant. We do not have enough Norwegian data on adverse health-related events leading to death, but there is reason to believe that there may be 2,000 such deaths in the specialist healthcare system every year. In the case of public health and care, the evidence base is even worse. When we know that perhaps half of the deaths can be avoided by good prevention, this is an unacceptable situation. I agree with Are Health that this is a major issue for healthcare and a major health policy issue. The interpellant referred to Professor Peter F. Hjort’s book “Unfortunate Events in Health Care” — he could tell that there is also a new, interesting and exciting book — where he writes that there is no limit to what can go wrong in health care. It's because of the incredibly large numbers that characterize this service. Only in Norway are 850,000 hospitalisations and 3.5 million outpatient consultations in somatic hospitals, 1 million outpatient consultations at psychiatric institutions, about 160000 recipients of home services and approx. 15 million consultations in the primary health service. An area of many adverse events is related to the use of medicinal products. The Health and Welfare Committee was recently on a study trip to senior health organisations in California. Here, too, drug management was identified as an area of many unfortunate events. Internally, one had analysed all the small steps in a long course of events, until the wrong medicinal product or dose was given to the patients. They found out that far too many times the nurse who took drugs out of the hospital and brought them to the patient, disturbed by colleagues and lost their concentration. The action that was taken was simple: the nurse who handled the drugs took on a clearly visible yellow ribbon, and it was a hospital rule that carriers of yellow ribbons should not be disturbed. This simple grip was introduced throughout the business, and one could measure that the number of medication errors decreased. Accidents in healthcare lead to a worryingly high number of injuries and deaths. Unique technical recommendations show that numbers can be reduced — and need to be reduced. Important steps are the introduction of a safety culture in which the learning of faults and the improvement of systems is crucial. Then all mistakes must be made today. Therefore, those notifications should follow a separate race that is different from the sanctioning systems. I think it was very positive signals the council gave in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1330	The interpellant raises a very important question, and he is to be honored for it. However, this is a question that does not have a single answer, but it is a challenge that needs to be addressed by many measures that can improve patient safety in the healthcare system. What I'm not impressed at at all is in many ways the Labour Party's approach to this matter. But I'm going to nuance it, because I also have to say that I think that the Council's posts today are giving a better and more nuanced response to some of these challenges than what we've experienced so far. As late as before Easter, on a proposal from the Progress Party, the Stortinget dealt with a proposal that would have helped a bit on the way. The proposal of the Progress Party on external controls and the authorisation system of health business management and procedures was met with a cold shoulder from the government parties. This proposal could have contributed to actors such as: The Norwegian Veritas was able to verify and approve the procedures of health establishments for non-conformity reporting and management. The director of the State Health Authority, Lars E. Hanssen, said so late last week that health care is too poor to learn from their own faults and those of others. The Ministry owns the health establishments. But you're not going to be able to learn enough from your mistakes. It is natural for the Council of State to report on its governance of health businesses, which are obviously deficient in this area. But I have with pleasure registered what she said today, that at the next meeting this should be addressed in particular. For the Council of State, it is responsible for ensuring that health businesses take the Health Inspectorate’s reports more seriously and thus learn from their own faults and those of others. It is essential that the management and management of health businesses should also be given the necessary knowledge and be held responsible for the conditions of health supervision. There is a great weakness, as I see it, in the system today that health care providers, who are responsible for the operation, are given too little opportunity to see how their financial priorities can affect the individual patient, perhaps — in the worst case — in the form of mistreatment. It is essential that the health inspection is taken more seriously in the department than I have the impression that you are doing, and that the supervision uses several unannounced checks. Less than a week ago, Anne June Iversen asked the question of whether a common system of deviations would not be appropriate in the healthcare sector, including patients and employees. be able to report non-conformities in the same register of non-conformities, in order to facilitate the provision of information on health situations and thus to learn from each other’s mistakes. At the time, several representatives from the government parties, as I experience it, ordered the systems of deviation to be good enough. It is not a believer when the representatives from the government parties change course from week to week. It is absolutely essential that we in the Norwegian health system have a culture of deviation reporting. Only if we get it can we get a health care system that sees and learns from their mistakes. Deviation reporting is not about entering yourself or others, but about trying to learn from errors in order to improve. The Progress Party will also call for the evaluation of a Health Service Review Commission, using a model from among others. State Disaster Commission for Transport. Such a Commission must be able to exercise competence both in carrying out external investigations and in assisting the police with professional guidance in any investigation. Such a commission should perhaps also have the possibility, for example, of being able to withdraw authorization, as I think you are experiencing far too little today. In sum, this could help reduce the number of deaths and lasting harm to health care patients. If we're going to get to that, the government parties have to show a completely different effort than they've shown so far. And I choose to interpret the state council's articles today as if she's been thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1358	I thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic and for the offensive and positive response of the Minister of Health. I understand that priority has been given to the work on patient safety in healthcare companies and in our healthcare systems in the future, and that is very good. If you want inspiration and ideas, I strongly recommend that you go back to the High Representative's proposal on quality work in healthcare, which was dealt with before the summer last year. There are many good ideas that lie unused, and that it is only to pick up and bring with them in the further work. At that time, the Minister of Health at that time placed great emphasis on the fact that the system that was established was good enough, and it was just to develop further. That is why I think it is very positive that the Minister of Health today recognises that today's system is not good enough, and refers to some new solutions. With regard to the discussion about the notification mechanisms, it is obvious to those who have listened to both the intervention from the interpellant and the intervention of the Minister of Health that the Workers' Party is in the process of concluding that the so-called § 3-3 messages from the enterprises, which are currently going to the Health Authority, will in the future go to the National Centre for Patient Safety. There may be a good solution, but one has an absolute need to look at what kind of consequences it will have for the Health Care Authority's ability to have it that one can call a hand on the string-feeling about what's going on in our health care. There are a lot of messages coming through this system, which help not least to ensure that the Health Authority has an overview and a direct contact with the institutions with regard to, for example: to be able to experience that there are institutions to which an individual should pay extra attention. The argument for moving it to a non-punitive institution is, of course, to get up the number of messages, and that health care workers should feel safer by reporting. Given that there may be as little as 1 per million of the notifications leading to sanctions against health professionals, should not there be – perhaps – a strong enough argument to make such a big change, given that one of the main challenges of the notification system is precisely to create transparency and security associated with the failure of the service? Then it is a paradox that one should meet it with a greater degree of anonymity, and try to reduce the fear of sanctions, instead of perhaps working more on changes in the attitude to the importance of reporting. At least for the moment, our conclusion is that the original model, which was never introduced, should have been implemented, namely that these communications went further from the State Health Authority to the National Center for Patient Safety. In fact, the scandal in this case is that for three years one has had a system that has not worked, despite the Stortinget, for example. in the context of the national health plan in 2007, it produced as if these communications were passed from the Health Authority to the National Centre for Patient Safety, although this was not the case and was not the legal basis for it. There is a discussion about a health service accident commission, and this is due not least to the efforts made by the Bistrup and Lie families following their experiences with the healthcare system. As the interpellant was about, we might need someone to talk to the heart in us to get you to do something about these things, and not least, these two families' efforts have made me think you've talked to the heart of everyone in the political parties. The advantage of having your own breakdown commission is just to have someone who can pull out who doesn't have the main purpose of penalties, but to figure out what's happened. This is the main model of the transport sector, and I hope that the Council of State will be positive in trying out such a model, in parallel with trying out the model that the Council of State itself has launched against the State Health Authority. Only in this way will the Storting have a sufficient basis for decision-making when it comes to introducing a national regime, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1373	Today we have a good opportunity to continue the debate we had last week, where there was a cross-political agreement that it is important to strengthen patient safety. I will, like several, begin by commending the Council of State and the interpellant for their contributions. There were posts of great commitment, and I also felt that there were offensive tones in the post of the Council of State. Several factors point to the fact that more unfortunate events will happen in the future if we do nothing to prevent them. Increasing age of the population, more complicated medical treatment, unrealistic demands for healthcare from the patient and the related and increasing demands for effectiveness and rationalisation in hospitals, it works. Maybe the most important thing is to create a culture to report the things that shouldn't have happened, and then use it to learn from it. The working environment must be characterised by transparency, trust, liberality, helpfulness and cooperation in order to reduce the frequency of adverse events. It is important to recognize that it is in the nature of medicine that everyone makes mistakes sooner or later. In the prevention work, this recognition must be communicated to health professionals in the training. Health services cannot learn from their mistakes when they do not want to admit them. The State budget for 2005 asked the Social and Health Directorate, as at the time, to start implementing a system for recording, analysing and preventing adverse health events, with the aim of establishing a quality improvement notification system rather than a criminal response. Finally, in February 2007, the National Unit for Patient Safety was established, but without a separate notification system. As the debate has shown, setting up a non-punitive reporting and learning system is a challenge. The Christian People's Party has, as it was said last week, on a number of occasions proposed the creation of an anonymous reporting system, with no sanction as its objective. Whether this should be anonymous should be kept under constant review based on experience from other countries with anonymous reporting systems. It may be optional to include names in the messages. Then the advantage is that the messages can go back to the hospitals where it happened, so that learning can take place there to a greater extent. But learning is not just to be done in the individual hospital. Some unfortunate events may only happen once in a single hospital and perhaps a few places in the country. Then it becomes important that the national unit gets these events in order to see them in context. The individual hospital does not have enough incidents of the rarest strokes. The national unit must work specifically with this whole field. They will be able to provide, through analyses, for general measures to enhance patient safety in all hospitals in the country. I look forward to focusing on patient safety in the future. Reporting systems must be in place, they should be similar between hospitals, research and education must be strengthened in this field, and efforts must be made to ensure that hospitals learn from unfortunate events so that they do not happen again. First of all, patient treatment will be safer, and trust in Norwegian healthcare will be strengthened by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1396	It is human to fail, and in health care, the human input is one of the most important resources. Therefore, we need to have a culture where it is accepted that the deviation management is part of the quality improvement of a learning organisation, and it must end that employees do not dare to report deviations of fear of sanctions. It must also be concluded that employees do not report deviations because they are seen as additional work that does not come out of them. Too many aberrations stop at middle managers and managers who fear their superiors. The socialist approach to aberration management, as we do, for example. Look at the school, scares me. We have had many debates on national tests and the handling of the results. In my own municipality, the students have steadily cut poorly on these tests, and last week the local authorities were able to report that the development of some of the schools was alarming and alarming. But the taxpayers, the parents, and the students didn't know which schools it was. The father that someone wanted to make a sort of ranking list was the main argument against publication. I cannot view this as anything but the over-protection of employees and management. Such an approach is certainly not useful to users because both suspicion and speculation arise. I think that public disclosure and transparency would have led to a much better pressure in the process of transition and learning that would have to be able to deliver better quality services, as we also want in healthcare. I have seen for myself what the publication of annual user and family surveys may have a positive impact on an organisation. A healthy competition leads to a positive and service attitude. The increase in employment is also part of what I have observed. The hospital Østfold has worked purposefully with its quality system. Publication of adverse events and reporting of non-conformities has been an important part of this work. I have to say that I have felt about the hospital management and the employees when I have seen how the press has approached this. A period seemed like one of Akersgata's biggest newspapers had a journalist in Thailand, who had made it his life's mission to go through the hospital's public electronic mailing lists, then to lubricate one scandalous article after another with war headlines on the pages of the paper, and it became part of the newspaper's foeton of so-called revelations. I'm going to be the first to say that we need a critical press, but who's really going to be critical of the press? If the press's approach to aberration management is to be influenced by tabloid scandals, we will not be able to obtain the necessary transparency around what should be a continuous process of quality improvement to the benefit of patients. I also lack much more transparency from the medical profession and a much more conscious attitude towards the concept of professional soundness from both doctors and nurses. I hope that we can put such a system in place, and I look forward to the further debate in this area. Finally, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting this important area on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1412	This seems to me to have been a good debate. It shows that the case has both simple aspects that are easy to grasp, and very complex aspects. I think the example of Hagebakken's representative, that health professionals who should not be disturbed, get a yellow band around life, leads to the number of unfortunate events going down and lives likely to be saved. It can be done as easily as possible, free of charge and with great savings in human suffering. The debate probably also shows that the possibility of communication between people is not quite good. I note that the representative Per Arne Olsen shows that the government parties change course from week to week. In that case, the undersigned must have spoken out unwisely last week, for I have at least meant the same thing over the last two weeks, at least. I think the representative Höie is at the heart of one of the most difficult things in this case, because there are two directions of the assessments we have to take. One direction is to cover up what is a general sense of justice between us and people. The other direction is how we create as much learning as possible. There are arguments to put more or less emphasis on both of these directions. When I've put a lot of emphasis on the direction of learning today, it's because I'm so deeply convinced that putting a lot of emphasis on it will save a lot of lives. The impact of the measures in this area is closely linked to the provision of a close complete notification of the adverse events. I would like to thank you for the debate. It does not end – it is passed on. I am of the opinion that work in this field is likely to save more lives in the years to come than many other health policy issues that we are also going to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1425	When it comes to improving patient safety, I think you should listen to all the good suggestions that have to come up and consider them carefully. That's why I've taken the two grips, you could say, which is now being implemented. One is this exclamation group. When we chose an exclamation group and did not go to establish another external accident commission, it was because an exclamation group can be launched immediately by using the competence of supervision and health and legal competence — to get it out immediately in the event of serious incidents. As I also said, the regional health companies, the hospitals, in the business meeting this week will be obliged to report immediately to the Health Authority in the event of serious incidents. So there's no loophole when it comes to the time to report. It's important, not least in the light of the stories that have affected us all. As you know, people in particular have experienced too little involvement in the detection of actual conditions. It is important that relatives, patients and health professionals are heard, not least the relatives, who are in an extremely difficult situation, so that they get their experience of what is happening. Then there is this obligation to notify according to Sections 3 to 3, which have previously gone to the Health Authority, but which is now being considered as being added to the National Unit for Patient Safety at the Knowledge Centre. That's another piece of legislation. Legal work will also require a hearing. This means that we have to do a thorough work on this proposal. But I still think that is right, both in the light of the debate that took place last week, and also in the light of the debate that has taken place here, because this will be more in line with the recommendations of the European Union and the World Health Organisation. So I'd like to say that maybe we can be accused of doing too little from the department. There are two important things that are now being done. One is to be judged and will require legal work, as I said, but the most important thing is that each hospital and each department learns from the mistakes that are being made. There we have to help them build systems, so that it is possible to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1434	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over. Now is also the regulatory time for the morning meeting. The meeting is scheduled for 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1469	The average waiting time for rating spaces increased from 67 days in 2008 to 69 days in 2009. In somatic disciplines and multidisciplinary rehabilitation, the waiting time has increased by three and seven days, respectively, from 2008 to 2009, while at the same time it remains stable in the field of mental health protection for adults. The proportion of time-limits for patients treated is higher in the third tertiary in 2009 compared to the same tertiary in 2008. For patients treated in the somatic sector in 2009, the proportion not treated within the deadline was increased by 2 pst. In the field of mental health protection for children and young people, the increase in deadline breaks was 6 percentage points, but in the field of mental health protection for adults and in multidisciplinary rehabilitation and treatment, the proportion of treatment interruptions remained unchanged from the previous year. A total of more than 250000 people are now waiting for specialist healthcare treatment by the end of 2009. The contract specialists in somatic subjects carry out one third of all outpatient consultations. Agreement psychiatrists and psychologists together carry out a quarter of all outpatient consultations, while the number of specialists in self-employed practice is only 9 pst. of the total number of medical specialists. These overall figures are so clear that there is no doubt that this is a very effective part of our healthcare system. Basic figures for Health North from 2004 support this. They show that the costs of the contract specialists – the sum of operating grants and reimbursement from the public interest – at that time amounted to 1.4 pst. of the total costs, while the contract specialists performed a total of 24,5 pst. of the number of outpatient consultations and day consultations. Everything also suggests that quality is consistently good. Very few complaints are reported from Norwegian patients’ claims, and contract specialists have an average of 1.8 consultations per year. patients versus 2.4 in outpatient clinics of health establishments. This may be due to the fact that in contract specialists, the patient sees the same experienced specialist every time, while in health companies there may be new people at each individual consultation. And of course, it can be said that contract specialists meet healthier patients than health firms do in outpatient clinics. Health Mid-Norway has produced a report on the contract specialists called «Critical. Competence. Constructive.’» The manager of Health Mid-Norway, Inge Romslo, visited all 160 specialists with an operating contract with Health Mid-Norway between 2005 and 2006. The report states: Patients treated have diagnostics and problems that are largely similar to those found in public outpatient clinics. The quality of treatment provided, measured in terms of patient satisfaction, reporting to Norwegian patients’ compensation and complaints to the Health Inspectorate suggests that the treatment is at least equivalent to the quality of the supply in the outpatient clinics. Number of consultations per year In the period 1996–2006, medical work in somatic facilities in hospitals has remained almost unchanged — from 2.38 to 2.1 consultations per year. day/pr. annual work. The corresponding figure for the contract specialists in 2006 is 13.9. There are six times more patients per day. annual work of contract specialists other than those found in the public outpatient clinics – despite the fact that SAMDATA figures for 2005 and Nav in 2006 also support the Health Middle Norway conclusion that the patient composition is similar. It is therefore quite obvious that the treatment of the same patient with the same health status in hospital outpatient clinic is significantly more expensive than that of a contract specialist. This provides a great opportunity to make better use of healthcare money while at the same time reducing waiting lists and patient waiting times. We see that the number of years worked by contract specialists has been stable for about 730 years. It is the responsibility of health establishments to establish and manage the funds linked to contract specialists. There is nothing in health companies’ plans for 2010 that seems to change this. In 2009, Health South-East set up a whole new contract home. It is obvious here that one has the ability to organise the health services that are not used by health businesses. I believe in this area we also have a goat and oatmeal problem. Health businesses are too preoccupied with monitoring their own activities, so that they do not use this way to solve the waiting list challenges. In the March issue of Medical Arts, the Minister of Health and Care also calls for more use of medical specialists. If this is to happen, there is a need for a proper signal to health care businesses that this is actually going to happen. Although the overall figures are clear in terms of efficiency, there is a need for better comparable statistics between public outpatients and private specialists — in particular it will be useful for health enterprises in their work. The work of contract specialists could also be a useful corrective tool for the public health sector. There is also a need for better information on the work and offers of contract specialists. On the right, we believe that we need to obtain waiting lists, quality targets and information on the areas in which contract specialists work in particular. This will help the patient and the prescriber in choosing a specialist. The size intervened and secured contract specialists so-called K-tariffs in some areas in 1999. It has been a success, but it is also limiting because they are linked to specific diagnostics. The right considers that there is a need to introduce ISF funding in line with what they have in public outpatient clinics, including contract specialists. Only then can we have a real impact and make use of a large unused resource in healthcare. The patient will also receive a better offer through the simultaneous implementation of several procedures. It will also be easier to compare figures from private and public enterprises. This will not least be important for public outpatient activities, which will then have a better comparative basis to look at their own way of organising work. I also believe that the contract specialists fit into the thinking that we find in the Cooperation Reform. It's a patient-near specialist health service. It's effective, and it reduces the burden on our hospitals. Sometimes it is used as an argument against moving the treatment of patients out to the contract specialists that businesses need this treatment to train new specialists. However, contract specialists have long wanted the possibility of having educational candidates. This, I think, will strengthen education. The candidates get to be with a specialist – and the same specialist – for a longer time. One gets to concentrate on learning the subject, and one gets to participate in many frequent similar interventions or consultations. For example, a half-year stay, which has been the proposal of contract specialists, will mean a very good training for the educational candidates. I am therefore keen to hear whether the Minister of Health will help health businesses to get a better decision-making base to expand the number of contract specialists, introduce ISF reimbursement for contract specialists in line with the public outpatient clinics, establish training schemes among contract specialists, and, not least, ensure that more contractual homes are established, so that one can get a more effective health care system with shorter waiting times for our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1512	One of the first things I caught up with as a new health minister last year was the work of reducing waiting times. There has been — as the interpellant also said — a negative trend in waiting time in recent years, and the increase in the average waiting time from 2008 to 2009 was stronger than it has been in the past. It is clear that the waiting times for diagnosis and treatment should be reduced. It is also a policy objective to exploit the capacity of public hospitals, but to use private facilities where it can help to reduce waiting times. We know that about 85 pst. of the patients referred to the specialist healthcare service, waiting for an out-of-patient assessment. It is my opinion that contract specialists can be important actors in the process of reducing waiting times for outpatients. The contract specialists are a valuable resource in the specialist health service that we are to maintain and further develop. In the 2007–2010 National Health Plan, the Government announced a work aimed at changing the framework conditions for contract specialists. The aim was to better integrate contract specialists into regional health care companies’ responsibilities. The contract specialists constitute, in total, a major public health operator. In 2008, this group accounted for 1,170 years. Half of the annual work was in the somatic field and half in the field of mental health protection — distributed to psychiatrists and specialists in clinical psychology. In 2007, somatic medical specialists conducted some 2.1 million outpatient consultations – or 35 pst. of all outpatient activities in somatic specialist healthcare that year. Mental health protection also contributes significantly to contract specialists. We are now working on continuing and expanding the arrangement with contract specialists. There are some large geographical differences in the use of outpatient services and some services could be better developed to meet the needs of the regions and at national level. The forthcoming increase in the number of elderly people and the need for coherent healthcare for large patient groups will impose new requirements for the dimensioning and organisation of the service. Medical and technological developments are likely to make it possible to provide even more services outside hospitals, and the role of contract specialists could become more central. The message of the interaction reform on the extent of decentralised services underpins this. In February of this year, I visited a group practice in Oslo, consisting of three contract specialists within the ear-nose neck. The contract specialists are effective and have many consultations and operations per year. day(s) Furthermore, specialist practice is available in a different way from outpatient clinics in hospitals. It is clear that this form of organizing the service can have many benefits. The interpellant points out that regional health enterprises do not increase the use of contract specialists. It is true that from 2002 — when regional health businesses were given responsibility for specialist health care — until now there has hardly been any change in this area. The picture is particularly clear when compared with the annual growth rate of health enterprises. The challenge will then be how we can facilitate the more and better use of this part of the specialist healthcare service. As I see it, this challenge can be met by putting in place the framework conditions for contract specialists – as announced at national health level. In this way, this group will become a more attractive partner for regional health enterprises in order to solve the health policy order. We work on this and look at a model where the idea is to link contract specialists more closely to regional health companies. In today’s system, contract specialists receive an operating grant from regional health businesses and reimbursement tariffs from the public interest. I would like to consider giving regional health companies greater responsibility for the development of the tariff system, so that these can be more targeted than at present on priority patient treatment. As Minister of Health, I am committed to making the best possible use of resources. There may be considerable benefits to contract specialists, not least in terms of efficiency. Looking at outpatient treatment in isolation, there are many similarities between what happens at a contract specialist and what happens at an outpatient hospital in a hospital. But we should not forget that the doctors who are in outpatient treatment in a hospital also treat inpatients. Furthermore, hospitals have tasks and functions that contract specialists do not have. Examples include preparedness, watch and training of both relatives and health professionals. Differences in tasks and functions make it difficult to compare the activity of contract specialists and the activity of outpatient hospitals. It is possible to calculate the cost of each consultation if it is ignored that hospital outpatient clinics also carry out tasks that are integrated into the hospital establishment. But these tasks are at the same time so important that we cannot ignore them in a social account. Finally, let me say something about the possibility that educational candidates will be able to take part of their education in contract-specialist practice. The educational situation in some specialities is under pressure, and there is a lack of practical places to complete specialist training. As of today, there is no possibility of having educational candidates in private practice. I have received a proposal on my table, and the government will consider changes that need to be made to get this in place. The government believes that contract specialists are an important resource in the specialist health service. We are working on changing the framework conditions to facilitate the further development of contract specialists as an effective and important part of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1544	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I believe that the Council of State basically has a positive attitude towards the contract specialists and the business they operate. I also believe that the Council of State gave many good arguments as to why an increase in the number of contract specialists and the expansion of the activities of the contract specialists, in particular, in relation to the challenges facing us in the future, with an increasing proportion of older people in the population, and linked to the medical development that suggests that more and more of the interventions taking place in hospitals can occur in outpatient clinics. It is also alarming that the conclusion to this effect will be to give health professionals greater control over the private contract specialists. It's, in my opinion, a recipe to go the other way. As I said in my post, and as the Council of State also confirmed, one of the main challenges today's model is that health care companies have very little increased the number of agreed homes and kept the level of activity of contract specialists down to the level at which they assumed responsibility. In my opinion, providing health care companies with control and control of contract specialists will strengthen the abdominal and oat sack effect, and it is also likely that contract specialists will become less corrective to the public outpatient clinics to a lesser extent than at present. The arguments put forward, why it is not possible to compare the contract specialists with the public outpatient clinics, I believe that I refuted in my post, and I also pointed out studies, among other things. from Health Mid-Norway itself, which rejects some of these objections. This does not mean that we should move all outpatient activities from public hospitals to contract specialists. There is a good deal left before one is there, and before it possibly goes beyond the other hospital services. I think that to exploit the contract specialists in order to bring down the waiting lists, which the council says she is busy with, we actually need to get more of the contract specialists out of the hands of health companies, make sure that they get a direct ISF, and not least to oblige health companies to set up more homes so that the contract specialists can become absolutely necessary corrective to the public outpatient clinics, which we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1555	I realized that the interpellant in his first post said that the regional health companies had a abdominal and oatmeal problem with regard to the contract specialists. I have to say that I am concerned that we will have contract specialists, but that I probably have a different starting point than the interpellant in terms of seeing the benefits of it. For me, it is important that contract specialists do exactly the job they are supposed to do – to treat patients. Then we'll see how they can do it more, not least to bring down the waiting times – because being in line is unfortunate for those who need health care help. So to this by being a corrective to the public. I feel that the contract specialists per. currently lives on significant public operating grants. Then it's about doing to see how we can get the best possible use of them. Of course, I have a positive attitude towards the contract specialists, precisely because they are an important part of healthcare. But this is where we also need to be able to establish national systems and make them work well together with regional health businesses. With regard to the Interaction Reform, the point is that we are going to get more specialists into the municipalities and into the local community where people live, preferably in complete disciplines. This will have different forms and different organisation in different parts of the country, so also here the specialists are important. And I want to, as I said, also look at how we can integrate this with education, because it will be an important part of the future in terms of the interaction with the contract specialists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1564	Private contract specialists strongly contributed to a sharp decline in waiting lists between 2002 and 2005. As was also the interpellant within, the private contract specialists in Health-Nord make up about 3.3 pst. of the medical devices, while actually performing 24,5 pst. of outpatient day consultations of the health region. This shows that private contract specialists are a very significant part of the provision of health care in Norway. It is therefore very worrying that the Government, through the Soria Moria Declaration, has set itself the goal of keeping use at the level of 2002–2005. In practice, this means a reduction. The signals now coming show that the waiting lists are once again increasing, which they have done continuously after the red-green government took over. In spite of this, the Government has put forward a policy of tightening up the possibilities of private contract specialists to exploit their very effective capacity. What I mentioned earlier as the Government's private allergy – because I actually see it this way – has only one consequence, and that is that patients are the losers. We see that we have endless cows – at least they are seen to be endless by those in these queues – and that the state council was right in, they have actually increased more than even expected from 2008 to 2009. The result of this is – and I guess it’s not an intentional policy on the part of the Government – that today we’re getting a society where those who can afford it can buy themselves out of cows in Norway. No parties in this room want such a system to develop, but nevertheless it will be the consequence of the government's policy. We know that the contract specialists are a very important part of the Norwegian health system. As the state councils were also in, they carry out a lot of treatments, but we also know that there is a lot of available capacity among contract specialists. In the Advance Party's alternative state budget, we added an increase of between 20 000 and 25 000 further consultations in order to bring the queue down, and the contract specialists themselves confirmed at hearings that they had the capacity and opportunities to increase further. In fact, the available capacity is available in addition to the public health service. So it's about being willing to use the capacity that's already there, both in the public sector and, not least, among the private contract specialists. The last time I checked, 262,000 people were in line, and that number is increasing – in other words, it is increasing and longer health cows, and with it also longer waiting times. This is a paradox for me when we know at the same time that there is free capacity in the private sector. We should also remember that the contract specialists are a developing force for medicine as a subject. By using the principle of interband to treat patients — doing things over and over again, and specializing in it — one helps to become more effective and to pass on medicine. This is also happening in the public sector, and that is exactly why I do not think you should be so afraid that the private people contribute to this. They specialise and also contribute to the specialisation in health in general. It is true, as the Council of State says, that, of course, public health specialists also have other jobs, but it is possible to correct for them. When there is available capacity, available opportunities, we should know to make use of it. So I have to ask myself the question, what is the government afraid of? Is that the knowledge? Are you afraid of picking up these numbers? I am convinced that private contract specialists can help solve the problem facing the Norwegian health care system, namely to bring down the queues, and then we should know to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1583	Two years ago, the right carried out a very thorough work on its alternative health policy, with thorough consultations and a lot of contact in the professional community. We experienced very clear feedback from the local authorities in Norway on how important the contract specialists were when they were going to forward their patients. They experienced rapid feedback – there are also queues for some, of course – and good dialogue. They felt that they were being followed up, and they knew that when they contacted that road, it worked much better than for example. when they contacted the hospitals. However, we also received the following warnings: Very few of the healthcare companies had, in their long-term plans ahead of 2020, at all, problematised, addressed or looked at developments in the context of contract specialists. We then drew the very clear conclusion that there is something wrong here, because although the responsibility for providing services has been in the regional health companies, they have not taken it seriously. They have not thought through the role of contract specialists in the wider health system. It is a serious cross of thought when so much power has been added to regional health businesses. I believe that the contract specialists, whom I heard the Council of State was also concerned about, really fit into the new way of thinking about health policy: more treatment outside the hospitals, closer to people. And I'm sure it's easier to get agreements with contract specialists, where they can also move something, than it seems at the moment to be with some hospital doctors. So it should be a good idea to systematically focus on developing the contract specialist functions in the future. We see, independently of the Interaction Reform, that almost-health houses have emerged in private, in the form that firmers and contract specialists have co-located to get a good professional environment around in many municipalities. They're able to get a lot of what you want to get into, even under municipal law. Therefore, it is important that regional health enterprises have a plan for how they develop and increase the number of contractual units. This is taking its time. Many of the contract specialists are the most experienced, those who have been with the longest, those who really know their subject. You don't take a newly-trained doctor and make a contract specialist. No, it's often one with a long practice from hospitals that goes into that type of job. So we need to think about how this is going to happen. I and the Right believe that over the next ten years, there is probably a need to increase the number of homes by 20-30 pst., also in order to obtain some new specialists where the population base for follow-up is growing a lot, and where what you have of contract specialists today does not necessarily hit the groups that are the most growing. Just take the psychiatry! There is a great need to improve the provision of services outside of institutional treatment. So it's the core of a decentralised offer that can be within this with contract specialists. When we say the goat and the oat sack, it's because regional health businesses are organized without distinction between the practitioners and those who fund, without distinction between the order and delivery models. In that case, there is a tendency for a ‘house’ problem to be greater than the large system tanker. This is often seen to be dominant in hospital companies after hospital companies. It's not that strange, because you're often closest to yourself, and that's the way it is in the health care system. I see no reason why the contract specialists can't follow the relatives. I see no reason why contract specialists cannot do more than they do today, doing much of the work that is currently being done in outpatient treatment in a hospital. What's important is to make sure that we get a quality follow-up of the work that's going on, that we develop the contract specialists system, and that we make sure that it's spreading in a larger part of society. Because there is still a geographical concentration that makes this instrument less easily accessible in all parts of the country. Last but not least, I would like to say that there is also a need to go through the tariff system to other people who work in connection with the contract specialists to see if we, for example, are working on this. are able to find tariffs for some of the specialised nursing functions that occur there. Sometimes we send patients to the best and most educated, although what they really need are other measures, because there is no tariff system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1598	A lot has been said about contract specialists here today that I can fully support. They represent an important part of the specialist healthcare service. They represent a supplement to hospitals, and in most parts of the country, where we have them, they are also an important partner for hospitals. In many communities with small local hospitals, it has at least been a practice for contract specialists to have their practice in hospitals as well. As such, they have over time been a very important part of the specialist healthcare service and an important part of the provision to the population. I agree with what has been said that the contract specialists in the future priority that we are now going to do in the context of the cooperation reform, which all the parties agree on, can be important contributors in the sense that you do not have to be hospitalised, but can be treated outside the hospital. That's how far I agree. But then I start to wonder what kind of organization the representatives from the Right are thinking. It is said here that regional health companies should not be contracting entities. You're not supposed to control this. They're supposed to be a competitor. Then I ask myself, who is responsible for the management and establishment of contract specialists if they are not regional health companies? Regional health companies are said to have been given responsibility. SV did not support that reform. I won't repeat it every time, but the Right did. After all, enterprises have been given responsibility for facilitating the overall specialist health service in the regions, and the contract specialists are part of it. My experience of it is that the guarantee that we will get the contract specialists to cover the whole country is that they will be put in context with the total specialist health service provision in health regions. But if health regions are not to be responsible, then who is responsible for the establishment of specialists and governance? I ask: is it the new Hospital Directorate, which is to be centrally located in Oslo, that is to be responsible? For the right, you go in to wind up your business. I think that the representative Höie – and also Solberg – must respond to who should be responsible for the organisation, development and distribution of contract specialists if they are not regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1605	The interpellant presents an important interpellant on the location of contract specialists in the specialist services. One indicates that approx. 90 pst. the waiting lists apply to outpatient or day-to-day surgery. It is noted that regional health professionals do not increase the use of contract specialists to relieve the cows of their own outpatient clinics. The interpellant therefore believes that it is necessary to obtain comparable figures showing the cost-effectiveness of outpatient clinics in hospitals and contract specialists. The question being asked is whether the Government will help to obtain such numbers in order to obtain more patient care at a lower cost of increasing the use of contract specialists. I would like to stress that contract specialists do a very important job in the group of specialists. Number indicates that up to 35 pst. of all outpatient activities in somatic specialist health services are carried out by contract specialists. They are thus involved in reducing health cows and are an example of a healthy cooperation between the public health services and the private sector. We rely on contract specialists to maintain and further develop a good specialist health service. It is therefore safe when the Minister of Health indicates that work is now being done to look at the framework conditions to ensure a more attractive partner for healthcare professionals. When it comes to ensuring comparable numbers, it may well be that this is tricked. The work done in public outpatient clinics and contract specialists can be compared, but one must take into account that everything is not quite comparable. The difference is that the contract specialists have the right to accept and treat patients, take property from patients and get reimbursement from healthcare professionals for this, while the public outpatients are obliged to accept and treat patients. In this way, the contract specialists can avoid the least cost-effective patients and diagnoses and define their own practice with regard to tasks, while the hospital outpatients are obliged to accept all. It is not surprising that the contract specialists can set up their practices more functionally. Nor do the contract specialists have a teaching obligation and have a completely different financial incentive to treat the most likely patients. It is precisely this that requires that there still be a balance between public outpatient work, in order to maintain the breadth and secure the hospital department’s competence as a centre of competence, even in the case of outpatient activity, and the private contract specialists. The contract specialists are fully recruited from the public. It is also the case that pay differentials are very high between private and public sectors, and a strong increase in the use of contract specialists could result in the loss of the public to the most skilled employees. In summary, I believe that getting more knowledge about the patient base, diagnosis, quality and practice of the contract specialists must be in everyone's interest. While it may be reasonable to increase the use of contract specialists, it is also important that this does not happen in such a way that public hospitals/outpatient clinics are affected. The right may also have the right to ensure that regional health professionals are not seriously responsible for the use of contract specialists. But I think the answer to this is not to release healthcare professionals from their responsibility for the contract specialists. The responsibility needs to be clarified. In my view, the isolated effort-driven financing of contract specialists without being anchored in regional health professionals' tasks would be the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1622	This is an important interpellation. I would say that in several cases we have seen a bleak tendency that the private offerings are not being used, and at least they are not being increased, from the public side. Because there needs to be political will at the bottom, there needs to be clear political notices to the regional health companies that private services, such as: The contract specialists shall be used. It is the clear line of the Christian People's Party that these are a very important part of the total health supply. It's about control signals. You have to deal with it politically if you're going to do something about the long health cows. Contract specialists are also an important corrigendum, as several have mentioned, to public health services. These problems are solved differently, and most of the time they can be solved even better. The contract specialists are a kind of decentralised specialist health service. According to the Medical Association, the scheme has been developed to a small extent as foreseen in 1998. As has been pointed out, regional health establishments owning hospitals are now taking the decision to set up new contractual homes. Developments, as several have said, have remained still since the entry into force of the scheme. Then it is not useful to say that one should look at the matter, then one must give clear steering signals. In several reports, Sintef has pointed out that a number of outpatient services are performed with different efficiency, availability and cost from those in hospitals. As the Council of State also pointed out, contract specialists have a very high level of health care production. In 2008, they conducted 2.2 million consultations on a national basis, which is 35 p.m. of all outpatient consultations. In the contract specialists, the patient meets the same doctor every time. It provides continuity and is necessary to follow the development of diseases. Patients in contract specialists report high levels of satisfaction, and the price tag of treatment is about half the price of a hospital outpatient for the same disease, according to the director of the National Association of Practising Specialists. There should be new reports that could say something about the relationship between contract specialists and public hospitals, and this is therefore a great initiative from the inter-pellant. The last time Stortinget took up the contract specialists in an interpellation debate, in the autumn of 2008, the Minister of Health said he wanted to look at specialist candidates in the field of education and that contract specialists can be used in this context. The councils were in on this. But we know that the need for better recruitment has been there for a long time, and is still there. I wish the Council of State could say something more specific about this work. This is about political will. We have long health cows, but this can be solved. The capacity is there, but there has to be a steering signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1635	When one listens to the warnings both from the health minister and from the representatives of the SV and the Central Party about how ill public hospitals can be if one gets too many contract specialists, one could believe that the picture of recent years’ development shows that the number of contract specialists has increased sharply. But that is not the case, it has been quite stable, and my point is that it is very long before one is in a situation with the danger signals drawn up by the representatives of the government parties. So there's a lot to go on before you're in such a situation. At the same time, a clear extension of the number of agreements would mean that the health cows would go down, patients would receive faster treatment, and we would get more for the health funds that we grant. The representative from SV asked what is the Right Model. Firstly, it is not right that the Right vote in favour of regional health enterprises. The right had its own suggestion, which was downhearted. It was the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that stood for that model, and the Right voted subsidiaryly for it, when our model, where one did not have regional health companies, was downgraded. Secondly, it is clear that in the Right Model a hat would have an order-executor solution. It does not exist today, and when one does not have it, the agreements must initially be with regional health establishments. There is also clear advice for the Minister of Health that she needs to get regional health companies to expand the number of contractual homes just to bring down the hospital queues. We also believe that this issue is part of the national health plan, precisely because looking at contract specialists as an essential part of a national health plan, to develop our health services and to bring down hospitals, is an important tool. What one sees as a picture through this model that the Minister of Health does not see in his response is a further strengthening of regional health enterprises as health management bodies in Norway. That was never the starting point when they were established. But to a greater extent, the four regional health businesses are now operating with what can be said to be health policy. This means that if health businesses are given a mandate as comprehensive as the Minister of Health suggests, a risk in this area may also be that contract specialists will have four completely different areas of agreement, four completely different framework conditions and not least four completely different health policies. There is one thing, but it also means that patients living in these four different health regions will have four completely different health policies to deal with. That's not good for health policy, and that's exactly the right thing to warn against when we voted against regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1649	I feel the need to provide a case information: it may sound as if the red-green government has abolished contract specialists because they are private practice. It doesn't. It's been a perfectly stable number, even under the bourgeois government. So when the representative, Rygg, talks about not using the private services, that's not what this is about. The contract specialists are funded by the public. Each contract specialist costs the public, including the regional health enterprises, between 2 and 3 million. kr, and the contract specialists are fully occupied. So to the representative Per Arne Olsen, I just want to say that it's not about not using them. If you are going to increase the activity of the contract specialists, you have to have more of them. The representative of Solberg is very right about that. So a comment on the waiting queues. Yes, it sounds very bad with 250,000 patients in line. But the question is not how many people are in line for public health, the question is how long they wait. It's the waiting time we have to get down. We know that very many people get treatment quickly, but some people wait too long. That's why it's so important to get the activity up, both in the hospitals and on all the supplements that are possible. In this context, the contract specialists are very important because they carry out 35 psts. of all outpatient consultations in the healthcare system as a whole. Then the agreements with the contract specialists are extensive, and are between the state, regional health companies and KS, and the Norwegian Medical Association and also Norwegian Psychologists' Association. So it's comprehensive agreements. So it's not like the government doesn't want to use contract specialists. It kind of makes no sense. They are an important part of public health and will also be in the future. As I also said in my post, we'll see how we can get more out of the specialists we have. Then one must constantly consider whether to create more homes. We have to look at this as part of the whole treatment chain and also look at how we can decentralize it more, because there is no doubt that today the contract specialists are primarily in the cities. It will therefore be important to get the contract specialists into the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1662	That being the case, it is no. 9 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1678	The value added in the maritime industries is over DKK 100 billion, and Norwegian Industry uses the turnover figure of DKK 180 billion in its statistics, making it the largest industry in Norway after the petroleum industry. In the last year, only a few new contracts have been concluded by Norwegian shipyards, which has consequences for the entire maritime industry. The industry is experiencing a practical contract stop, and in addition to 2010, the order books are being emptied in the land-based maritime industry. The challenge is to ensure that the shipbuilding and equipment industry is able to maintain competence over the next few years, so that the industry is best equipped to win contracts when the market is back. A clear message was given to the nutrition committee, who was on a committee mission to Sunnmøre and met the maritime industries: they have had enough understanding and fine words. Specific measures can be found late. The industry's horror scenario is that the drought continues, that the industry has to go to mass redundancies in a year, and that any bankruptcy wave will occur. This could lead to the risk of confusion of the high-tech innovation and competence that a generation has used to build up. As an example, Kleven Maritime reported that 50 workers have already been laid off and that there is a risk of 150 lay-offs since August 2010 – and there is not much time left. The Christian People's Party believes that many measures can be assessed. I would like to start with the basic framework conditions: the maritime industry must have framework conditions that are competitive in the international context. The depreciation rates for machinery temporarily raised from 20 to 30 pst. must be returned to 20 pst. There are lower depreciation rates in Norway than in Europe, and this is unfortunate for competitiveness. The Christian People's Party will ensure the shipping industry's foreseeable framework conditions and a shipping tax system that ensures continued strong and active Norwegian ownership of shipping. The shipping industry and seafarers must have framework conditions that enable them to compete on the international market. In addition, it is important to assess the ways in which changes in the share of the environmental fund in the shipping tax revenue can stimulate newcomers in the coming years. Another main area is the financing and guarantee schemes. The banking system must function optimally – including the interaction between GIEC, Export Finance and the banks. The banks' claim for 40-50 pst. equity complicates new contractions. It is necessary that GIEK’s and Export Finance’s offerings to the industry remain competitive, even in relation to the EU. GIEC shall promote the Norwegian export industry. It is often a perception that any change in GIEK will cost money. This is far from right. Often adjustments in impact fields and rigid provisions may be triggered by concrete contracts, without creating additional risk for the country. GIEK should be provided with larger albueroms. It is important that the guarantee schemes are flexible with regard to the development of Norwegian business. Adaptation is possible within the regulatory framework. In addition, it should be considered whether the export finance loan scheme can be used, for example. if the maritime enterprises enter renewable markets as offshore wind. It will also be important to increase the risk finance framework in Innovation Norway. In meeting with the industry we were told that SkattenFUNN is an important tool, but it has become much more difficult to obtain approval. It was basically a simple and straightforward system, but today there is a much greater requirement to write applications, and the message was clear: here it has to simplify. Norwegian shipping is important for workplaces and coastal settlements. However, there is an urgent need for fleet renewal, which will bring considerable environmental benefits in the next round. Here, the Government has achieved results in cooperation with the industry, among others. through the project NyFratt. But a lot remains. The average age of some segments is over 30 years. The shipowners have little equity, and perhaps some should merge. But at least they need help financing new vessels. The renewal of the part of the fleet in Norwegian voyages will achieve a significant reduction in CO2 emissions – up to 20-50 pst. – and other exhaust gases. Norwegian suppliers will develop new environmental technologies and Norwegian equipment suppliers and yards will be refilled in their order books. A managed fleet renewal will contribute strongly to the achievement of Norway’s targets for the reduction of CO2 emissions in the transport sector by 2020. The environmental benefit per year the invested krone will be high compared to CO2 clean-up and other measures. Here the government has to get on the track, because the perfect time for such fleet renewal is right now. The yard director Rolf Fischerstrand said positively in the NRK that the council had stated that there would be measures for the spring. Now the spring has come, and the industry is ready! New construction prices are favourable for the shipping companies. There is a political climate in the EU to accept immediate action for the environment, which can also be involved in and continue the yard industry in Europe, including the hull construction. Over 50 ferries are over 30 years old, and there are only three-six ferries on the stairs. If they are replaced by new gas-operated ferries, they will have a very positive impact on safety and the environment as well as a good contribution to maintaining the activity of small and medium-sized shipyards. By means of the Gothenburg Protocol, Norway has committed itself to a significant reduction in NOx emissions. The easiest way to do this is within shipping. With its transition to gas-powered vessels, it will reduce CO2 emissions by 20 pst. and NOX emissions with as much as 90 pst. Accelerating the construction of defence ships and coastguard vessels can also remedy the situation in the maritime industry. Acquisitions of defence are also excluded from EEA legislation and can therefore be placed in Norwegian courts. The renewal of the fishing fleet is another important measure that can create jobs for shipyards. According to the Federation of Fishermen, the fleet has an average age of about 20 years, and there is an uprooted need for fleet renewal. The strengthening of banks' equity requirements is a significant challenge for the renewal of the fishing fleet, while the Participant Act places clear limits on the ability to raise external capital for fishing boat companies. The equity situation of fishing boating companies has deteriorated in recent years as a result of the structural and capacity adjustment that has taken place within the industry. In order to facilitate fleet renewal, it is necessary to establish arrangements that, if appropriate, strengthen the equity coverage or reduce the requirement for equity upon renewal. The Federation of Fishermen has therefore proposed to the Ministry of Industry and Trade that Innovation Norway or other public bodies should be given the opportunity to grant ordinary second priority loans to finance new buildings in the fishing fleet. The association believes that up to 20 pst. the construction total should be eligible as a second priority loan, after regular bank financing is in place. Such a scheme could contribute relatively quickly to the realisation of planned projects. The Government’s Maritime Industry Strategy, ‘Steam Course’, was launched in autumn 2007. It emphasises the leadership of the Norwegian maritime industry in the environmental field. That is why research and innovation need to be focused on. I hope the Council of State will comment on the proposed measures in my contribution. To sum up, the main issue of the Christian People's Party is to bring about a broad fleet renewal, to put in place more environmental measures, to ensure competence through continuing education, where the vocational schools have a central place, and to ensure better financing and guarantee systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1742	That this is an important matter, not least shows the fact that a heavy moor and Romsdal bench are going to participate in the interpellation debate now, while Aalesund is playing the top settlement against Rosenborg. So it shows the priority of the Storting to discuss the yard crisis. I appreciate that, because it's an important thing. It is an industry that is very important to Norway, and it is affected differently and at a different time than many other industries that have marked the financial crisis with full gravity in the autumn of 2008 and in the winter of 2009. After many years of growth in world trade, record freight rates and strong increases in world fleets, international shipping is now in a structural crisis. So what happens is that we get two things at the same time: we get a natural end to a high economic cycle, while at the same time getting a very special situation with the consequences of the financial crisis, especially with regard to world trade – overcapacity on many ship types and, at least for a period of time, stricter demands from banks to finance new projects. Previous contraventions mean that a large number of new ships will enter the market within a period of one to two years. This does not improve the situation in which there is overcapacity and can lead to lower activity also in Norwegian yards, as well as the consequences for shipping companies. During 2009, Norwegian shipyards received a total of only 17 new orders. This means that the order books are getting shorter about the time it takes to complete the contracts that are there. Fortunately, 2008 and 2009 were good years for most Norwegian shipyards, so they have something to do with, but as 2010 goes, we see that the order servers shrink, although most suppliers can keep a high level of activity in this year too. In 2010, according to Norsk Industri, it is per year. seven new orders were reported in Norwegian shipyards in March, some of which are subject to funding. Despite these orders, the prospects for Norwegian shipyards remain very challenging. In the case of offshore companies, we see that we have recently received a number of more contracts that will facilitate the situation somewhat. The total peak that it appeared to be at the turn of the year has loosened somewhat, and the level of investment also in 2010 appears to be kept at a usable level. At the same time, the new orders are not enough to say that the situation has changed. Still, from the turn of the year 2010/2011, it is expected that the larger offshore workshops will have less than 50 pst. capacity utilisation. The situation of equipment manufacturers depends to a large extent on the international shipbuilding activity, as their export share is about 60 to 70 pst. There are very significant consequences for some ship types outside, and this will also affect Norwegian suppliers. The risk of cancellations is also present. In addition, the global order intake is very low. Equipment providers deliver at different times in the shipbuilding process and, in particular, suppliers of equipment to be delivered early in the process are now experiencing weak order entry. What we have to be prepared for is that this is going to hit the Norwegian maritime cluster. I think it's absolutely inevitable to realize that this is going to lead to downhaulings, this is going to lead to the tough hit of individual businesses. And we have to ask, what can we do to remedy the situation? Of course, when international markets disappear, the state cannot replace it, but we can help the industries to change, prepare for new markets, maintain environments of competence and, of course, provide the best possible facilities for the individuals affected. Because while we are talking about industries throughout and about international markets and the financial crisis, we should not forget that this is about individuals. These are families that have established themselves, often in small places, and that may experience the job disappearing, and it has consequences not only for those who are employed in the company, but for spouses, for children, for the whole family. We have asked the industries themselves as well as the different institutions and bodies that the Department has – GIEK, Export Finance and Innovation Norway – for input into what kind of action is needed. So for the time being, the order books have been useful to companies, but such measures become more relevant as these order books go empty. I think it is primarily in the areas of innovation, conversion, innovation and preparation in new markets that the key lies. We know that our maritime industry is competitive above all at the forefront of technology, at the forefront of productivity and at the forefront of developing new products that the market will demand. New environmental rules, better use of energy, better organisation of new markets such as offshore wind turbines, etc. may be areas where the yards can be given new assignments, but where they need to be prepared in terms of both design, technology development, engineering and subsequent performance of their tasks. We have also facilitated this by making it easier for companies to allocate leave to several employees and for longer periods of time. We have introduced more flexible permitting rules, so that more lay-offs are entitled to daily allowances, and the maximum period of leave has also been changed. As an additional measure, the Government decided last September to facilitate support for intra-corporate training, with the possibility of extending the duration of the aid. In the longer term, it is also important that we have good agreements with other countries, not least trade agreements, so that our companies have access, and that we work for a fair competitive situation for Norwegian companies. That's why the government, and especially I, at many meetings outside the world, has taken up with other countries that we don't now have to get a negative spiral of protectionism and subsidy measures, so that everyone finally loses. It is also gratifying that the OECD Council Working Group on Shipbuilding has decided to resume negotiations on a binding international agreement for normal conditions of competition in the shipbuilding industry. These negotiations have been suspended since 2005, but among other things: Following strong Norwegian pressure from the Norwegian OECD ambassador and Norway, we have started this and have also given China and Korea, key countries in this context, the task of renegotiating the agreement. We will consider further measures as we monitor the situation, and we will follow closely the situation for maritime industry and the yard industry in Norway. We will pursue a policy that will ensure that industry is competitive in the future and will be able to implement the transition that will take place to win new market shares when the economic cycle is reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1778	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I should like to hear more concretely what the Council of State wants to do. Governments spend a lot of time on a situational description, but there is also hope that something will happen, and we cling to that. There is no lack of input to the Council of State, for example. In strategic advice, I have been referred to. So here's a lot of opportunities to take action on the individual measures. An area for which I would like to ask the Council of State concerns the NewFrekt scheme for which the Shipowners' Association has been called upon and which has been implemented with the support of the Norwegian Research Council. The result is now clear. The research environments of MARINTEK and Rolls Royce have jointly developed a completely new ship concept that, with improved hull design and gas operation, reduces fuel use by up to 50 pst. One challenge is that these ships through the NyFratt scheme are between 15 and 20 million. kr more expensive than a normal ship. In addition, companies are struggling because of the financial crisis. I wonder: will the Council of State, through Innovation Norway, for example, bring a package of measures to get cargo from land to sea by getting the short sea shipping fleet through NyFracht new ships? There are quite a few ships going to, really, to get started, and we need loan arrangements and various measures to build these environmentally friendly ships. Can the Council comment on such an environmental action package as NyFratt?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1787	It's absolutely right that we've got a lot of good input from the industry itself. We have had several meetings in the Strategic Council of the Maritime Industries. But we also have to look at the measures that help in the short term, because I think, and that's what the industry itself believes, that in a couple–three years' time the curve goes up again. We never get to the level that we were at in 2007 and 2008. I think a lot of companies might be happy about that, because then the pressure on the projects was so high that the prices were very high. We need to take prompt action. There might be something on the demand side. We have e.g. the ability to manage projects within the defence side of its own yard. But in other areas, if we stimulate the demand side, those projects can be completely different from those in Norway. Ordering ships that are mostly built elsewhere than in Norway is probably not the best use of money to stimulate Norwegian shipyards. Then I believe more in measures that go on the supply side, which are about helping the yards themselves to change, to find for themselves the markets in which they have additional competence and additional prerequisites to cope, in order to develop the products in which the future will gradually demand. Then it is absolutely possible that, for example, a more environmentally friendly ship's fleet, rules for it, international regulations that require the upgrading of old ships and the development of new ships, can just be measures that help Norwegian companies that are technologically advanced, that think environmentally friendly and that already have new projects on their drawing board. The choice of GE to add part of its European research effort on offshore wind power to Norway is also one that strengthens these environments and, hopefully, can also position manufacturers, yards and suppliers to get a foothold within the major investment project that both the United Kingdom, Germany and other countries are now planning for wind at sea. The mills themselves and their chassis may be involved, but special vessels may also be used to set up, maintain or upgrade these windmills. So here we just have to use all the creative power that's in this strong industry, and facilitate it, so that we keep the strong environments of competence as a very important business cluster in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1796	The interpellant addresses a very important theme for an industry that is now facing a challenging situation. When the financial crisis hit us in the autumn of 2008, important export industries were hit early. Fortunately, we have a government that took responsibility and came up with measures to help us now say that we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. But the danger is that we can now be tricked into believing that the situation has improved for all, and that the measures are no longer necessary. We can't go in that trap. For the maritime industry, we need to maintain the offensive measures we have and that we can contribute with measures specifically aimed at this industry in the future. The situation is not only demanding nationally, but international shipping is in the midst of a real economic crisis, with overcapacity in shipping markets. Shipowners are reluctant to order new ships, and the financial institutions are, as the interpellant said, withholding funding from new projects. Therefore, it is important that we maintain an offensive commitment to Innovation Norway and GIEK, and that we can contribute even more flexibility in the future than what we are doing today. This year's budget is also a historical commitment to research, which is very important for this industry. In the context of the financial crisis, the Government took important steps around the rules of permitment. These came well into the various companies. On the mission of the nutrition committee, Ulstein, as was said here, was given a clear message that this system must be maintained when this industry is now on its way into increased permits. Why do we know it's coming? Yes, 15 ships have been ordered from Norwegian shipyards since November. These orders allow four yards to extend their order horizon until the end of 2010 and two yards to extend the order horizon beyond the year. It shows that 17 yards, which equals 58 pst, are without order from the turn of the year if there's no recovery from the contracts. I am particularly concerned about increasing unemployment in More and Romesdal, Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, where 10,000 today are employed in the shipbuilding industry. Many have already started lay-offs and redundancies, and you can see that it is the first part of the production chain, designers and engineers that is hit first. This poses a major threat to the entire future of the industry, as it is their competence, in cooperation with the entire cluster competence, on which the yards build their future advantage. Furthermore, the working party believes it is very important to provide business-internal training, as has been done, and to have a flexible tool that can handle training provision at a higher level outside the enterprise in the future. In Rogaland, where the supplier industry has been hit and several companies have faced planned redundancies, Rogaland County Municipality, Innovation Norway, NHO, NAV and several actors have been on the road together to maintain the competence of the county. They have taken a number of courses in arctic technology and environmental technologies to help companies convert, while at the same time strengthening the competence of the engineers they already have today. I know that these are current issues also elsewhere in the country where this industry is now exposed. It is then important that the Government can send out a signal that the instrument, which has received large financial appropriations this year, can use its framework more flexibly to meet the industry situation. It is important that the Government and the Council of State maintain the offensive effort to keep the wheels moving forward in a forward-looking way, maintaining their commitment to those who have the right to life ahead and taking targeted action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1822	It is important that you have faith in what you are doing, and it is important that you have an optimism in the work that is being done. In this context, it is important that we also learn a little from sports in the yard industry. In sports, it's like training to get good. You'll always try to be on top, and then you get to some nostrils. This time it's the market that has given us a real kilefink, most likely due to several factors. But the main factor is enough that this industry, which has been very high in terms of order access, has now come into the situation of having problems getting new orders to the courts. Then at least it's a pleasure that Aalesund's football club has gone up to 1–0 over Rosenborg in the evening fight, so at least there's something positive right now. And then we'll see how long the positive trend lasts. The council has been very good at listening. Governments have taken time to address the problems of the paint industry. There has been no lack of input to the Council of State, among others. from the Strategic Council which made representations to the Council of States. But it is also important that we not only focus on the paint industry. For the shipping industry is so much more than just the shipyards. The industry has a large supplier industry, which has great potential. It has many subcontractors, for whom it is also important to take care of their interests. It is also important to consider measures to remedy the situation. In this context, the State Council itself has been concerned with the rules on the stipulations of the stipulations. Then it is important that you do not stop and say that you have now reached a point, and then you change back to the way it was. Because then you can actually make this situation worse than it could be. I would like to mention that the tax FUNN system must be maintained, because it is very important for this industry as well. I also want to ask the Council of State to see if it is possible to improve that bit. I would like to point out that R & D – research and development – is very important, also beyond what has to do with SkattenFUNN. Because not everyone is big enough to be able to benefit from what has to do with the Treasure Fund. One thing can also be to look at what requirements we make, among other things. to the ships sailing along our coast. It may be possible to look at some requirements related to the use of, among others. gas. Possibly hulls are built abroad — Romania, Poland, the Baltic States, etc. – but at least you will be able to see very much that our supplier industry will be able to help deliver precisely to these projects. A renewal of the fishing fleet has also been carried out by the interpellant. The representative, Andersen Eide, was in his post at many important points here. But one of the most important things was the Council of State itself inside its post, and that is protectionism. Also in this hall, we're going to move forward carefully. We must not get into the situation that it is actually Norway, and we Norwegian politicians, who are calling for so specific measures that it is almost we who fall into a trap by creating a protectionist system, which others will then be able to use against us in the next round. The dialogue that has taken place has created very high expectations. We in the committee heard when we were at Sunnmøre last week about the expectations that have now been expressed to the Council of State and the package of measures that has been heard about. I hope and believe that at least in the revised national budget we will be presented with a package of measures that will just put our feet down and tell us which direction to go. What can we expect in the future in relation to research and development, to framework conditions, permitting arrangements, tax regimes, etc. to safeguard the interests of this industry in the coming years. The State cannot allow itself by ordering a ship itself. It doesn't work that way. It is only within the Defence and such things that one can go in and say that this is to be built in Norway. We have to take over international competition. But I hope the Council of State will come up with a lot of things, and I expect that in the revised national budget, because we have created such great expectations now. That was the clear signal for the Committee: we have heard enough talk, now we have to take action. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1841	There is a very important and topical issue that the interpellant addresses. It is particularly important for the many who live and live along the coast, and not least in the middle of the maritime cluster in the West. The interpellant gave a good picture of the situation in its intervention, but more than a debate is required and government councils and government representatives travel around the country and the beach, listening and showing understanding of the major challenges facing the shipbuilding and supply industries. In fact, action from the Government is also required. On 4 December 2009, we had a similar debate in this Chamber. At that time it was Right Representative Svein Flötten who promoted an interpellation on the same matter. The Council of State concluded the debate with the following words: ‘It is clear that in Stortinget there is a broad political understanding of the serious situation that the shipbuilding and supply industry may face next year, and in particular in 2011. Many of the representatives have also brought with them many of the good, creative and innovative ideas that exist in the industry itself, about new markets, whether they be windmills, environmental technologies, special ships or other investments. That's positive, because that means we have big business representatives who are in close contact with the industry, with the companies, and get good input." During the debate, the Council of State also stated that: ‘Paradox is that while other industries may see the light in the tunnel and feel that they are on the way out of the financial crisis, this industry is on the way into it.’ From the autumn of 2010, two thirds of the shipyards are without orders, and the larger offshore workshops are waiting for less than 40 pst. capacity utilisation. While the protected sector and parts of industry are experiencing new growth, these are now entering a very challenging market situation. What I particularly noticed was the following quote from the Council of State: ‘Our task is to ensure that this actually becomes a tunnel with a light at the other end and not a shaft where you are in the dark for too long, long time in the future.’ It seemed to me that the Council of State was very prepared – not only to listen, but also to take the necessary action. The same feeling has been expressed in the media, when the Council of State has moved around the country and the beach and promised help to the shipyards, at the latest in Today's Business 29 March and in Sunnmørspost 30 March. I therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State questions about what action he has taken in order that the industry should now be better equipped to see the light in the tunnel. I am talking about the time from the last state budget, the debate on 4 December last year and until today. What has been done within the framework of GIEK and Innovation Norway, we know all about it. There are measures that have been supported by the Right, but unfortunately it is not close enough. During the visit of the nutrition committee to More and Romesdal, the message was clear from the yard industry: now you have to make sure something happens. So far there's been a lot of talk and little action. The Council of State indicated that the Government cannot replace the disappearance of international markets. I agree, but the industry has proposed the construction of several gas ferries, more flexible loan schemes for fleet renewal, better depreciation rates and the removal of property taxes and inheritance taxes. At the same time, it appears that opening new oil fields in the Lofoten and the Western Sea will also give good ringing effects to the maritime cluster. The right considers that the equity of enterprises is the most important to reduce jobs and skills. We now look with great concern at the situation, as it is difficult – not to say impossible – to dig up equity where it no longer exists. For several years with red-green tax bills, many companies have been drained for equity through increased taxes, money that businesses had sorely needed now. The result of the Government's policy is debt financing problems due to high equity requirements. Financing difficulties are one of the main causes of the crisis in the yard industry and the supplier industry. The right considers that to resolve the crisis in the yard industry, good equity and financial capacity are mainly required. We believe it was too early to reduce the increase in the loan framework through Innovation Norway that was established in the package of measures in February 2009, as proposed by the Government in its budget. The right therefore proposed that the low-risk loan framework be increased by DKK 1 billion and that nationwide innovation loans be increased by SEK 300 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The right also supported the extension of the GIEK framework, while at the same time making it possible for the scheme to become more flexible, so that it could be used to renew the fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1878	It's important to have faith in what you're doing, which the representative Nesvik was in, but it's dangerous. It got Odd's experience last week when they thought the victory was secured with leadership against Rosenborg. Odd was, as we all know now, decimated during the evening, and so will Aalesund's football club tonight. On the contrary, what created the financial crisis was also the opposite of speculators. The crisis created by the speculation economy is not over. Now it's hitting the industry, and the shipyard and supplier industries are particularly hard hit. Before the financial crisis hit us, this industry had good times. The activity was unusually high, which has been well described by the Minister of Industry. But overinvestment and financial crisis have led companies to experience an order drought that can lead to redundancies and threaten many communities that depend entirely on these jobs. The industry itself expects a new rise, but it may take time. In the meantime, we can lose jobs in the districts. But not enough: we can also lose strong high-tech environments that are important for the further development of Norwegian industry. Therefore, the Government has put in place measures to support this industry. And that is why it is important that we monitor developments closely, and constantly assess new measures. During the financial crisis, the supplier industry came to the Government and asked for a larger framework for GIEK. The government reacted quickly and thus managed to save more businesses from a very difficult economic situation. Other measures were also implemented, which the Minister of Industry has been well informed about. More flexible rules for in-house training and for outsourcing are important measures to maintain the skills of enterprises, and this is very important for industry. In a situation of overcapacity, it is also important to assess the need for radical innovation and transformation. The shipbuilding and supply industry is a highly skilled high-tech industry at all levels of the organisation. This industry therefore has a great potential for developing green technologies and helping to achieve our climate goals, which we all set high. Norwegian shipyards and suppliers have the potential to be world leaders in environmentally friendly ships and offshore energy. Several enterprises already have products and projects in green technology, but there is still a long way to go in this area. It is important to start this development in a situation where there is overcapacity in the industry. We need to know how to use this. Such a commitment requires good interaction between industry and public sector instruments. Here we have to look at both environmental requirements and support measures, and SV will be a driver in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1895	Norwegian shipyards, offshore workshops and the supplier industry have a particularly demanding situation in the future, with the result that orders are now considerably reduced. The centre party is concerned about the situation. We look very seriously at this, and we follow closely. The industry has shown a positive ability to increase capacity in times when it has been in need of it, and that is precisely why the recession is now becoming very noticeable. 17 of 29 Norwegian shipyards, 60 p.m., stand without order from the turn of the year 2010/2011. Only in my area is there about 12 shipyards. The maritime cluster is of great value to the country. And in the Mora and Romesdal states, the maritime industry is also very important for community development and construction. Very many people today are linked to the diet. I know the Sun Butter and the Sun Butter. The maritime cluster has a hometown there. Among other things, the Ulstein region is vulnerable to the decline. We've already seen that the changes will come. Departments are proposed to be merged, and there is a risk that parts of the workshop environment will be weathered. If it shaves for the Ulstein region, it has an impact on the surrounding region. I am pleased that the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide put this matter on the agenda. Governments confirm the challenges, and I thank you for the good answer that came. In peak hours, a built-in competence has been very good. When the decline comes, it is very important that one has measures to preserve and maintain these coastal environments of competence. It is important to focus on skills development and training in times of recession. The centre party is therefore too satisfied that last September, the Government made it easier to obtain support for company internal training, and that it was made easier to distribute leave on several employees over a longer period, and that the maximum leave period was changed from 30 to 52 weeks. This is positive. The center party keeps in touch with the industry, and we listen with great interest to the point of view and the recordings that come from there. It knows best where the shoe presses that he's wearing, it's said. And this industry has shown through generations to deal with rising and falling times. We have good ability to convert in the country. That's one of our advantages in this situation as well. It may seem that we are better off through the financial crisis than most other countries. It is positive, but for the maritime cluster – with ship design, with shipyards, ship equipment suppliers and the associated communities – the time ahead is more than exciting and challenging. It will be demanding, and the Center Party will follow developments closely. Good action is needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1908	As the interpellant points out, parts of the maritime industry and equipment suppliers will face major challenges in the present and next year. The challenge is not diminished by the fact that the Supreme Court's conclusions on the taxation of shipowners' layers are challenged by parts of the Government. When representatives of SV through the media say that one will take a change or otherwise make sure that the riders will be accepted as such, it gives a signal that creates insecurity in maritime nutrition and frames both shipyards and equipment suppliers. In this way, SV contributed to fewer new construction contracts being concluded, and added to the yard industry as well as the equipment supplier industry sees permits and cancellations in the near future. Once again, the lack of a robust framework framework framework framework frameworks industrial workers and strengthens the construction of industrial workplaces, such as the Møre industrial complex and the Romsdal industrial complex, which have become more strongly and more powerful in recent years. So not enough of the power crisis they've had to contend with, where the government for five years has been closest to the action bar, but also the maritime cluster is now challenged. Many had great expectations for the 20th concession round, but one that the government managed to deliver other than the postponement of awards. When he finally arrived, he was almost chemically free of virgin territory that could give new activity. What does the Minister of Industry do when parts of the business are asking for measures to mitigate the crisis? Well, then the Minister of Industry is talking about R & D — research and development — and raising skills as a remedy for the crisis. And that's what most people will give him right in. But when Giske then gives the impression that there are research media to get through her BIA program, it's directly unethical. Trying to give such an impression when both the ordinary permissions and the extra resources from the crisis package have already been used does not allow for any new maritime research through the MAROFF program. It is therefore directly provocative for the industry when the Council of State makes such an impression, and they feel that there is a sudden stoppage because there is no means of a new research project through the BIA. The industry's most important hope now is that the government can manage to set up a management plan for the Lofoten and the West Bank. Many suggest that there must be a change of government in place to give Nordland and Troms their rightful share of the oil adventure. The Progress Party is ready to give this part of the country new, forward-looking jobs alongside the fishing industry. It will benefit the yard and equipment industries and provide hope for the future, not with promises of research funds that have been used up for the longest time. So I belong to the councils of states called windmills at sea. We all know that these are many, many years ahead of time, and will hardly contribute at all this time. It's amazing that it's called, but in many ways it symbolizes the empty toolbox that the red-green government has. The 4 pst signal. The fall in the government budget for the coming year is not promises to raise this industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1924	It is with a certain awe that one approaches this debate between Møre and Romsdalsbenken and Trøndelagsbenken. But maybe it's okay with a voice a little bit from the outside. Although I'm not from More and Romesdal, I've also been on this committee tour that many people have talked about. There has been no lack of concern from the bench today, except how it goes in football. There was also no lack of concern when we met the yard industry and the supplier industry in More and Romesdal at the beginning of last week. What surprises me a little bit when I listen to both the government council and other speakers from the government parties is that you talk like the yard industry in the modern world is just building boats, that we can count the order numbers on how many boats are built. It's not like that. The shipbuilding industry is a significant supplier to the oil and gas industry. In these days, it should not be said that as politicians, we cannot do anything about the market, but it does not do anything to send any thoughts to what is going on around the Lofoten and the West Pole, because that is what the industry is waiting for – not that the areas are being opened overnight, but that at least a decision can be made. I think, in fact, even if the decision is negative, it's important to decide, because business is the way they need decisions. If you have a government that says no, we're not going to do anything about this, we're not going to increase the activity there, they're going to relate to it and try to find other markets. Another input that we got is to take care of the competence. That is what the representative Botten calls ‘keep the wheels running in a forward-looking way’. It is then important that not only does this happen in the traditional ways through Nav, through support measures, but that they rely on businesses and give them better opportunities in new ways to keep their own skills going. As many people said in More and Romesdal, we don't intend to steal anything from the state, but let's get the opportunity to do this ourselves. When I still hear posts about the future of Norwegian business, colored by the fact that there is the speculatory economy in America, or where it may be, which is still brooding over this, I have to say, let's think about it in the future, because it does business, and the politicians should do that. There are great expectations for the Council of State. What is to come from there is now referred to in many environments such as the Giske Plan. It must be good to have expected plans named after itself. But the delivery time is approaching, and one of the reasons I took the floor was to remind the Council of State – not because the Council of State does not know about it – that the first part of the delivery time, i.e. revised budget, is approaching. Many of those who have participated in the strategic councils feel absolutely that they are being heard, but they feel that so far nothing has happened. This means that one accumulates a delivery that must contain something that gives optimism to the industry, not least in it as a collective Moor and Romsdal bench today has strongly expressed their concern and concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1939	I would like to thank you for the debate and for all the good input that has come today. As I said in my post after the Council of State had had its say, we all agree with the situation description he provides. My hope is that all the recordings that have been made will lie – and lie high – in the suit of the Council of State. Especially those who live in coastal areas – and there are more, it is not just More and Romsdal – know how important this industry is to many. As mentioned, it is approx. Four months ago last time we had a similar interpellant debate. That time, as today, there were many proposals, and the answer from the Council of State, as he has said several times, was that he will follow the industry closely. I hope we don't come back to the autumn without anything happening. Expectations are revised, expectations lie ahead of exceptional measures, of which other areas of activity in times of crisis have benefited.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1948	It's in the Storting as in the football, it's about doing to have the best bench, and in the yard industry, More and Romsdal have a good bench that speaks its case. But of course, it's also a matter that covers the whole country, and where the companies, especially in smaller places along our coast, are hit hard by what has happened internationally. Let's be honest: we're never going to make decisions in this room to compensate for all the effects that the financial crisis and what's happening internationally are now affecting us. It would be an old-fashioned business policy, and it is fortunate that the businesses I meet – and I am absolutely sure that they are the same as the committees – do not demand it either. We can't build ships there's no demand for them. Then we would make the damage bigger. What we can do is help, as I said, with conversion measures by maintaining an environment of competence and by preparing for new markets. Then I also think that the question of oil drilling in Lofoten and the Vesterålen has a completely different time horizon than what we're talking about here. Because we are now talking about the years 2011 and 2012, which are going to be tough years, and the fall of 2010. 2008 and 2009 have been very good years. Luckily, I – and I think that the Committee also sees when it's traveling – many responsible business managers and companies that use these good years to prepare for what's going to happen when there's tougher times, putting money into conversion measures, into development projects, to allow engineers and professionals to use the capacity cut and the time they get to prepare for new markets. It is a healthy attitude that companies themselves contribute to this preparation, and that we do this together, do it together – that the public contributes with what they can do, and that the private enterprises contribute even after many good years. It's like in business that after very strong years there's a slowdown, but it's this combination of a natural economic downturn and a heavy financial crisis that makes this extra tough. Fortunately, this is an industry that is used to economic fluctuations, and I am absolutely sure that Norwegian maritime industry is so strong both in terms of the offshore side and the shipping side and all the other related services and products that we also need to cope with this tough period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1961	The debate on substance is closed. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e1967	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2022	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a step up of the tax-free discount on the purchase of shares by employees in its own company and an assessment of the transfer of the tax date for the benefit of the purchase of discounted shares from the date of purchase to the date of sale.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘During the autumn of 2010, the government is asking the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting to account for the Long-term Saving of Shares and to propose to the Storting a saving facility that allows personal savers to avail themselves of the exemption method and to invest in Norwegian business without having to set up their own investment companies.’ [[CLASS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2053	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘During the autumn of 2010, the government is asking for a case to be brought before the Storting on what measures can be taken to help several employees become joint owners in their own holding, including an assessment of the experience gained in countries that have favourable legislation for employees who will purchase shares in their own holding.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2073	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2080	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8 and 9, from Filip Back on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 8 and 9, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a free-of-charge system for the group of 19 to 24 years.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to give pregnant women without maternity benefits related to working life better financial conditions by stepping up the single-use benefit for pregnant women to 2 G.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2114	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right and Christian Party: Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to achieve by 2013 a target of halving the number of abortions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2131	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2192	During the debate, the representative Bent Höie has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Radium Hospital to ensure the framework conditions for further development as a national centre of competence for treatment, research and development in the field of cancer’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Radium Hospital continues as a brand name, irrespective of its organisational location.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2226	In Case No: No voting theme is available between 8 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-19.ana.ud1792e2340	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
