ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e78	The representatives of Øyvind Waksdal and Wenche Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e98	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after the insertion by the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e107	A thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement on Tuesday, which I saw as more concrete and forward-looking in terms of what matters he mentioned, than previous statements have been. This, of course, makes it easier for Stortinget to keep up to date with developments in the EU and to help promote Norwegian views towards our counterparts, and I would like to thank the Foreign Minister again for his thorough work on the presentation to the Stortinget. The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his speech by stating how important it is for Norway that Europe succeeds both economically and politically. That's a clue I'm going to join. It is therefore gratifying that the situation now, as also pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is more stable and even slightly positive for several countries in the euro zone. The debate on Ireland nevertheless underlines that the crisis is by no means over. In the Financial Times as late as today you can read that a rescue package now seems to be getting closer to Ireland than it has been in many days. The strong coordination and willingness to coordinate as shown by the EU is, after all, a highlight of this difficult situation. The crisis is caused by poor national policies over a long period of time. The EU is not responsible for the crisis, but is an essential part of the solution. An interesting trend in this respect is the strong Chinese buying-in activity — and also the offer of loans — towards European enterprises in the wake of the financial crisis. Both the Chinese President and the Prime Minister have been on tour in Europe. They have been visiting Greece, Italy, Portugal and France, and now they are doing what they can to increase their influence in Europe. Analysts have pointed out that they are going through the flanks and into economically weak countries to try to gain a stronger foothold and a greater impact on economic policy, particularly in Brussels and Germany. For the right, it is important that Norway is an active participant in European cooperation, and although we have not yet achieved our primary wish for EU membership, we are concerned that all policy channels are used to participate in the European conversation and in European policy development. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took up the point of attendance of Norwegian government councils at informal ministerial meetings in the EU and that it could be significantly better. The size has pointed this out several times – it is important to participate in these types of arenas. Let me therefore highlight the Minister of Justice as an example of a person who has a strong focus on participating in European arenas and who has obtained participation in the Prüm Agreement and a settlement transfer agreement, among others. because of their strong involvement in the field. However, justice policy is not the only policy area that is important in the context of the EU, and we therefore encourage several government councils to participate in these meetings. The size has just opened its Brussels office. It was a great pleasure to accompany the Grand President on a visit to Brussels last week to join, among others. this opening. The purpose of the Agency is to strengthen relations with the European Parliament, because this Parliament is becoming increasingly important in the EU, and because parliamentarians have the opportunity to contact levels and areas that government representatives do not have. We had good and interesting meetings with our counterparts in different committees in the European Parliament, and we also had a delegation from the European Parliament in Oslo on 3 and 4 November to discuss many of the same issues. In other words, the channels between the Storting and the European Parliament have been significantly strengthened lately, and it can only be positive in order to influence more actively. At our meetings we repeated our wish for regular meetings with corresponding committees in the European Parliament, and we discussed many very topical issues. It was Arctic issues, it was the relationship with NATO and the relationship with Russia. We also discussed the new EEAS – European External Action Service. Internally, too, the Storting has introduced new instruments. The Industry Committee recently gave an opinion on the Timber Regulation. An overall committee made clear its views on the further work of the government on the national implementation of this Regulation. Finally, a few short things. Other representatives from the Right will discuss several specific issues in later articles. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved in the Data Storage Directive in his presentation. The government awaits as far as I understand the EU’s evaluation as well. The invitation to the evaluation conference has now arrived in December, and a question that I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs is what Norwegian positions and input are given in this process. The Swedish implementing law was just presented, where the Swedes now say that they should have a maximum storage time of six months. In particular, the Workers' Party has pointed out that what other countries do in relation to their storage time is an important element. Finally, the European Commission recently presented its 2011 work programme. It would have been interesting to get a preliminary comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how he views this work programme, the importance it has for Norway, and what matters should be followed particularly closely in the preparation and decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e131	It was interesting to hear the chairman of the Committee's reflections on the presentation that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had here by day. I also think it was important for the leader to stress that one should be ‘forward-looking’, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained – forward-looking as to what influence one should have in Europe and that one should be proactive in matters. Now it is the way that the Right has ambitions to become a government in the future – when it has to be! We see that the Progress Party points out as a cooperation partner for the Right in a government. The Progress Party has not yet presented its European policy. At least we can't see any clear contours of it. They have said that this should each make up an opinion about it, they should not have any idea about it. How does Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide view any government in which she had to sit; would it be so much better than the tripartite government that has a comprehensive view of how we are going to act in European and EEA matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e140	Firstly, the Right, with whom the Nordtun representative is well known, has a broad approach to civil cooperation. We seek to cooperate with everyone who wants to cooperate with the Right. It's very important for the Right. It's always been. We're the only clear-cut party. We programmed yes to the EU in our programmes for a long time. It's still going to be there. The country meeting of the Right has never been in doubt that this is our position. We work actively and hard for Norwegian EU membership. That said, there are examples of this government not being able to coordinate itself in EU and EEA matters, and that is why it is difficult to get into the issues now on the EU table early. We've seen examples, and we're going to see examples, that there's disagreement between departments, between parties, that makes the Norwegian position not arrive early enough. One of the examples we're probably going to discuss here today is the issue of alcohol advertising, where the government has come late and may have lost some of the opportunities to influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e149	In a similar debate for approx. Six months ago, I asked the representative Eriksen Soreide questions that I felt I was not getting a response, so I asked again now. These questions will have the same value now and for a long time in the future, I think. The question is simple: Does the Right still want a quick Norwegian membership of the Economic and Monetary Union? In what way will such membership be an advantage for Norway in the context of the management of the financial crisis now, possibly an advantage in the management of future financial crises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e161	I can answer again. Firstly, the right has always wanted close cooperation with the EU. Of course, this also applies in the economic field. I also gave that answer earlier, in ours, and I would like to repeat that. On the issue of how to deal with the financial crisis, it is to say that those countries in the euro zone and in the EU that have problems today have solved the problems themselves. It is neither the fault of the EU nor of Euro-cooperation that they have been in trouble. However, the EU has shown the ability to stand together and try to solve these problems. To use an example, when Greece got into trouble, there was first some disagreement in the EU about how to solve Greece. They did, and they have made good mechanisms to help other countries as well. Now we see that Ireland is in a similar situation and has trouble. The EU then extends a hand to Ireland and says that they want to help them, while the EU country Ireland may be somewhat counterproductive. So yes, right wants a closer collaboration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e170	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, was involved in the EU Data Storage Directive. As you know, the European Commission is now in the final phase of its evaluation of the Directive. My question to the Right is whether it is possible for the Right to go ahead with the directive before the EU evaluation is completed and before you know what will become the EU's policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e175	The right has taken the position that we also want to wait for what the government is presenting to the Stortinget. This is the primary task of the government, and it is mildly a divisive view within the government parties of how the data storage directive should be handled. An evaluation process is now under way, and an evaluation conference has been convened in December. I also asked in my speech whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs could explain which Norwegian positions will be included in the evaluation work. Of course, it is interesting for us to know what direction the EU is taking here. But first of all, this is a task that the government internally has to solve, and submit a case to the Stortinget that the Stortinget can handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e180	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e184	The presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs shows in a good way the extent to which our agreement with the EU intervenes in the everyday lives of people and businesses in Norway, and thereby into Norwegian policy. Domestic and foreign policies are increasingly intertwined. There has been a significant development in EU cooperation since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Cooperation is much deeper, more far-reaching, and much more countries have come along. We have met this development by connecting to cooperation through new agreements and participation in programmes and agencies that manage different areas of cooperation. In the last ten years, Norway has concluded ten new cooperation agreements with the EU relating to judicial and police cooperation and cooperation on asylum policy. We've got room in ten new agencies. We are now participating in 24 cooperation programmes. The EEAS work programme for 2010 and 2011 offers that this development will continue. We have ambitions to participate where we are going to – in the new financial sector supervisory bodies, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, and for example. in the European Asylum Support Office. There is neither coercion nor distress that leads us to want to be so widely involved in EU cooperation. It is the development of a world that is building up its borders in a growing number of areas, which requires closer and closer cross-border cooperation on common challenges. The financial crisis, which has become a debt crisis and an unemployment crisis, is a strong reminder of the impossibility of shielding itself from influence. Although Norway is referred to as the Minister of Foreign Affairs as a ‘contrast with this picture’, Norwegian economy and, above all, Norwegian export workplaces do not go unnoticed by the problems in our neighbouring country. Asylum and migration flows call for policy coordination. International crime requires more borderless police cooperation. But the positive effects of a more borderless Europe also call for common political action. When more and more people want to take advantage of the opportunities to study, work or spend their life as a pensioner in warmer areas, policies need to follow in order to provide security in everyday life. Among other things, this Directive on patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare is concerned. In Nordic cooperation, there is a broad political consensus to try to remove frontier barriers, even if the obstacles lie in the policy areas on which we need to give up our right of self-determination. In the European perspective, it seems that there is still a greater scepticism in us. But it'll probably go over a day, too. We are without the right to vote in our cooperation with the European Union, but we are not without the possibility of influence. But it has become demanding, as the Foreign Minister stressed. The challenge now is that some of the channels for this influence change through the changes in the so-called comitology work. Article 100 of the EEA Agreement allows us to participate in relevant committees, which are added to the expert groups of the Commission. Now, these committees will fall away from so-called delegated acts, which are less extensive and more technical. This means that we need to seek more informal consultation arrangements. Another main challenge lies in the increased influence of the European Parliament. More concrete policy-making will take place through Parliament's proceedings, as we have seen in the case of both the Services Directive and the forthcoming directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare. There is no doubt that the EEA Agreement has been important for Norway. It has solved the tasks it was supposed to do, and has been an anchor for the other cooperation agreements we've been given. However, the strong developments that have taken place in EU cooperation since 1994 and which are also reflected in the institutional structures of cooperation with the Treaty of Lisbon have changed the way in which the EEA Agreement is to operate. In the Joint Parliamentary Committee between the EEA countries of the EFTA and the European Parliament, we have raised the question of whether this development should ensure that the EEA Agreement is reviewed in order to see whether there is a need for change in order to continue to safeguard the possibilities for its influence. The same question has been raised by the Internal Market Committee of the European Parliament in the evaluation carried out by the Committee under the EEA Agreement and by Switzerland’s 120 agreements. The European Parliament has joined in on the question of whether such a review should be carried out. I stress that I am not talking about a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, but whether there could be a basis for adjusting the parts relating to our involvement in the legislative design. It should also be of interest to the EU, because it is better for both parties that participation takes place within structured frameworks, rather than informal forms. I believe that the environment in Norway which has at least been affected by the raging development of EU cooperation and our relationship with this development over the coming 16 years of the EEA Agreement must be the Stortinget. Something has happened since 2005. We have received the Secretary of State's six-monthly statement. Activity in the European Committee has increased. The EEA Committees have been given the opportunity to deal with EEA matters on their own initiative. We have been invited to and have participated in hearings in the European Parliament. It has, at least from the side of the Workers' Group, been actively working against party colleagues in the European Parliament to influence work on, among others. the Consumer Directive. That's good. However, we are still absent in the debate on policy-making and directives while it is ongoing in our neighbouring countries and in the EU bodies, and while those affected by them in Norway are participating through consultation rounds against governments and often in the lobbying system through their stakeholder organisations in Brussels. The President of the Grand Duchy opened the office of the Grand Duchy in Brussels when he visited the European Parliament last week, and from the New Year a staff member will be in place, who will be a listener and a celebrity for us. The possibility of making it easier for us to look at the policy design in Brussels and engage in the debates, we must all take responsibility for taking action. Because when, in a few years' time, the new directives end up as a point in a 50-60-page document in paragraph 4 of the agenda of the European Committee of Inquiry, there is little we can do with the realities in them. They usually pass the selection without comments. A candidate for such an involvement may be drawn from the list of matters of concern to the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in the statement – the privacy strategy for all policy areas, which the Commission put to the debate on 4 November. That debate will end in proposals for legislative changes over the next year. If we also take these debates while they are going on, it is also easier to be able to work against our colleagues in the European Parliament in order to safeguard the interests and values we believe are important. In some cases, there could be common national interests we can agree on; in other cases, it would be to take the national debate out into Europe, based on the views of the parties. Because I think it is we in this Chamber who have the best conditions to be able to exercise influence on the European Parliament – although, of course, it must also be a responsibility for the government. The Nordic Council has also put in place an EU strategy for cooperation between the Nordic countries, so that together we can more easily influence the decision-making process and safeguard our interests in the development of a common European policy based on what is of common Nordic values. It will also be an important influence channel, which we have to use. The Joint Parliamentary Committee between the European Parliament and the EFTA has asked the Commission to send new legislative proposals to the parliaments of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, in line with the parliaments of the Member States. It will provide us with a basis for taking the debates at the same time as our colleagues in the EU countries and the European Parliament. So far, the Commission has said no. The European Parliament has now supported this requirement. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to re-examine this – I know he has done so before – at the meeting of the EEA Council on Monday, on the basis that the European Parliament also believes that it is a good idea that we should be given equal treatment in the internal market between parliaments throughout the EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e248	The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned on Tuesday the border settlement agreement under way between Norway and Russia. It implies that a special border residence certificate will be sufficient to cross the border of those living up to 30 km from the border between the two countries. It means that the people of the Kirkenes region will be able to benefit from this, but not those who live in Murmansk. Similarly, there will be no opportunity for those living in Norway with border permits to visit Murmansk, but only a few smaller villages on the east side of the border between Norway and Russia. My question is: is the Workers' Party satisfied with such an agreement, or will the Workers' Party take an initiative to extend the agreement to an extent, also geographically?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e255	We are pleased with the agreement as a good start on making it easier to cross the border and as a continuation of the increasing cross-border cooperation – business policy and people for people's cooperation. Then we'll see if it's possible to expand the zone, based on the experience gained with the agreement that's there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e260	In its Communication on the implementation of European policy, the Government underlines the importance of increasing strategic awareness of how to exploit the opportunities for contact with the EU at different levels in order to influence the Union, not least through participation in informal EU ministerial meetings. In the first half of the year, a total of 25 invitations were made to such ministerial meetings. Six times it has been found that it was appropriate to meet up – and this was underlined as very, very important in the communication. I expect the representative Hansen to dislike this frequency of attendance, and I do not expect him to express what he thinks about this lack of interest or attendance. But does the representative Hansen say from within the Workers' Party and in the government about what he thinks about this frequency of meetings?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e267	I can use this opportunity to say what I mean about it outwards. I believe that our state councils should use the possibilities they have for contacting their European colleagues both when they meet in Brussels and elsewhere. Of course, that doesn't mean that you have to attend every time you get a chance, but you should attend so often that the invitations don't stop coming. I also believe that we in this House can be better equipped to have frequent contact with our colleagues, not least in the European Parliament. And even though the commitment is good on the EFTA Parliamentary Committee, it could be even stronger on our part. So I think we have a common challenge, both in the government and in the Stortinget, in having a look at the policy design that is taking place in Europe, in a busy everyday life here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e272	I must say that I greatly admire Mr Hansen’s representative for his excellent defence for the Union – and for the Union’s excellence. He made a point today that the Storting was that part of Norwegian society that has at least been influenced by developments in the Union. I wonder if the representative Hansen has avoided noticing that the Norwegian people have been influenced by developments in the Union. For 67 months in a row, there's been a big no-majority on the opinion polls. This month we're in, it's a record high majority against the Union, almost two thirds of the population share the view of the Christian People's Party in the matter. What does the representative Hansen think is the reason why the Norwegian people are affected in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e279	I think that's pretty obvious. In Norway, we are in a unique economic situation in relation to the environment. That's the explanation that there are few who see a gain in being a full member, so get a vote. But when I pointed out that we in this house are at least affected by this, I did not talk about our attitude to EU membership, but I talked about how we relate to the developments that have been in cooperation. I believe that the representative Højbräten and I agree that exploiting the EEA Agreement’s opportunities to take care of Norwegian interests is important. That's what I tried to emphasize. Here, we must take our share of responsibility, especially after the European Parliament has increased its influence. That's where we can influence, through what we might have of party traps in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e284	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e287	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good account of important EU and EEA issues. The Minister of Foreign Affairs suggests that a little better progress is being made in the EU. But unemployment is alarmingly high, as are deficits in the state economy in many EU countries. Greece is the most serious case – the state debt is the size of the Norwegian oil fund, nearly 300 billion. euro. But there are many other countries that are at full speed in the same direction. Let me take some figures from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own country pages: The government budget deficit in Hungary was 9.2 p.m. of gross domestic product as early as 2006. It was before the financial crisis. In Portugal, after many years of deficit, government debt has risen to 85pst. of gross domestic product. In Spain, unemployment has passed 20 pst. In France, the unemployment rate is 9.3 p.m., but it was 8 p.m. already before the financial crisis, in 2008. Another struggling country is Latvia. In Latvia, there was an annual economic growth of over 10 pst. for several years, at the latest in 2007. But in the same years, Latvia raised large government loans, leading to a rapid increase in government debt, high inflation and high interest rates. It's probably not without reason that the Foreign Minister was allowed to mention the United Kingdom, which for 13 years was run by the British Labour Party. In May, there were elections in the United Kingdom, and before the elections, the U.D.'s national pages could state: ‘No matter who wins the election, government expenditure will have to be reduced significantly.’ [[...]] The reason is, of course, that the Labour Party government, which ruled the United Kingdom through 13 years by a majority in Parliament, systematically spends money to an extent that has led the United Kingdom to become a debt victim to a greater extent than is usual in the EU. The United Kingdom has become the EU’s main problem area during the Labour Party Council. The bourgeois parties won the elections. Now they have to clean up after 13 years of social-democratic over-consumption. It's not popular. I don't think they'll win another choice. UK Labour Party politicians have already called for a return to public consumption. They've learned nothing. The EU and IMF crisis package has a framework of 750 billion. euro. Germany now appears as a base mountain, which has to bear the burden of saving other countries out of the debt crisis. However, Germany itself had a significant deficit in the state budget as early as 2005 and 2006. They went about zero in 2007 and in the financial crisis year 2008. According to the State pages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Germany already has a total debt on the double of the crisis package – 1500 billion. EUR 64 pst. of the country's gross domestic product. So Germany has a sovereign debt that is higher than the 60 pst. of gross domestic product permitted by the legislation. The money Germany is now contributing must therefore be financed by Germany itself taking on large loans in breach of the acquis, loans which are additional to the old ones. The OECD information indicates that public sector rationalisation was also a low priority in the period ahead, and that governments in most EU countries chose instead to increase taxes and taxes. It's important that we learn from this. We might experience similar crises if we wave it all away saying it's all the blame of the United States, and that it was the fall in the US property market and the bankruptcy of the American financial world that caused the financial crisis to hit Europe. It is more likely that the root of the EU’s economic problems is only slightly justified by the economic downturn in the United States. The main reason for this is the excessive consumption of money in the public sector, the almost absence of efficiency and the increase in taxes and taxes during the period up to 2008. This is, of course, a real response to a debate that has long traditions in Norway. We also have to ask ourselves how much taxes and taxes the population and business can bear. That border of tolerance has crossed the EU. We may have that in Norway too, but we have oil money that mitigates the adverse effects still for so long at home. As long as we pump up oil and sell it, we get European and American drivers to finance Norwegian well-being and prosperity. This is probably going well for a few more years, but the Norwegian government budget has risen to NOK 200,000 per capita, and 700,000 people of working age are out of the labour market. It also makes the Norwegian economy vulnerable. I mention this because on Tuesday, the Foreign Minister was very focused on the financial crisis and its aftermath. The US financial crisis has probably had a triggering and perhaps a strengthening effect, but the fact is that the crisis in the EU countries has led back to many years before the financial crisis and is mainly home-produced. EU countries are now suffering as a result of record growth in government expenditure. Free government benefits are not free, but are mainly payable through the taxation of profits and income, and thus all of them – mainly – must be paid by the same persons who receive the so-called free benefits. The more free welfare, the more weight should be borne both for the competitive industry, for the business world and for the people most. Private sector businesses and employees need to provide sufficient income to take care of themselves, and in addition pay government salary budgets and government budget benefits. Deficits give rise to high debt and thus increasing annual interest rates on old fun. The Progress Party has been warning against this for years. With ever-increasing government debt, it will go wrong sooner or later, and it has now been done in many of the EU countries. It is reassuring that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that EU countries take the necessary steps and implement tough measures to balance the economy. On Tuesday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs showed that President of the Council Herman Van Rompuy has chaired a working group recommending extended financial monitoring, greater discipline in budgetary and financial management and the use of several sanctions against EU countries that do not follow rules and recommendations. Yes, this is probably the way to go if the EU is going to get back to the fences financially. In addition, Europe will serve to cooperate with the United States in order to achieve a more realistic price determination, especially of the Chinese currency Yuan. The current course is an artificial stimulus for Chinese exports to Europe and will drain our continent for money, production and jobs, while the Chinese economy is artificially inflated. This is no good in the long run. Furthermore, Europe should significantly reduce immigration. Large immigration into high-unemployment societies will necessarily lead to social unrest. We already see that. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the economic problems in the EU have definitely not made the EEA Agreement less important for Norway. 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to the EU and Norwegian imports come to 70 pst. from the EU. In particular, in a situation of failing purchasing power in the European market, it is important that Norwegian export companies have free access to the whole EEA area with half a billion people. Ratification of the Agreement, which is in practice an extension of the EEA Agreement by four new years, took place in Stortinget on 28 October. That'll cost us 350 million. euro per year, but it is a profitable investment. So some of the directives, and I start with the Eurovignette Directive. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated on Tuesday that, for our part, it is about maintaining a more liberal framework for discounts on heavy goods vehicles in toll facilities. He has the full support of the Progress Party here. In Norway, we have a combination of Europe’s worst roads and most frequent toll stations. This is a heavy burden on Norwegian business, and a little more liberal discounts are the right way to go. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive, or the AMT Directive, has been the subject of debate in Norway, mainly because it is intended that Norway should authorise alcohol advertising in television broadcasts directed at Norway. The Minister for Foreign Affairs did not announce any reservations or veto on the occasion of the case. In the Progress Party, we give the Foreign Minister our support here as well. It would be pointless if some advertising notes for beer and wine were to be the reason Norway should make a reservation for the first time. Finally, for Norway, it is important that things go well in the EU. Close cooperation between Norway and the EU should therefore not be reduced but further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e328	I have to say that it's interesting to sit and listen to the representative Myhre's description of how the financial crisis was created, and how busy he is to limit the release of money. I have a request that he also hold the same post at the Group meeting of the Advance Party Group. After four periods at Stortinget, the colleague of Myhre, Ulf Erik Knudsen, has now left the mind box and joined the European movement. Even Ulf Erik Knudsen says that there was a meeting in No to the EU in Buskerud that meant that he joined the European movement and ended up on the yes side. At the same time, the Progress Party makes it clear that the EU case is too important for the party to take a stand, even if it has been in favour of both the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement. I very much wonder why the Progress Party cannot take a position on the European Union case and why it is not possible to make a recommendation to the Norwegian people in the event of a new referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e337	The EU case is the only issue in Norwegian policy that should not be decided by the Stortinget; it should be decided by referendum. Like that representative Knudsen, who has taken his seat, the representative is also Myhre a member of the European Movement. There are also many in the Progress Party who are members of the no-movement. My point is that the Progress Party sees it as impractical to apply for membership now. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that Norway needs to be more closely linked to Europe and that it also applies to transnational solutions. This applies in areas such as tax policy, environmental policy and criminal policy – policies that are highly related to free trade, common competition rules and human freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e344	The representative Myhre holds a nearly ten-minute article on the economic situation in Europe without saying one word about the unemployed, almost half of the young people in many European countries, without taking up incomes and pensions that people all over Europe now experience, without mentioning the new poverty that is now spreading across Europe, and almost without talking about the people most in all, those who really take the bill in Europe now. Then I have to say that the analysis that is used here is boundless pre-emption -- it's probably an unparliamentary expression, so excuse me. Because it is systematic that countries with a welfare state are better off through the crisis than those who do not. Why is that? Well, because you have a buffer in the welfare state, because you can run an expansive policy, and because you have sane government finances because of a high tax level, so you don't have to borrow out of it or spit out oil money. [[President clubs]] Mr Myhre has some reflections on why the Nordic countries are doing so well in relation to Greece and Ireland, etc. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e353	There's no time for speech. It is quite right, as the representative himself said, that 'presumptuous' is not a parliamentary expression, and that means that he should not use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e358	Now I actually didn't register any questions, but I noticed that the representative Solhjell in a row with committee leader Soreide started talking about the next financial crisis. And he's probably right that there's going to be a financial crisis if we don't draw the right lessons from the financial crisis that we're now starting to see the end of. Comparing the national economy in Norway with the economy as it is in the individual countries of the EU thus becomes completely misleading, it becomes completely wrong. Because of oil and gas revenues, Norway is in a completely different position from all other countries in Europe. Therefore, we can use oil revenues to solve the problems now facing EU countries. Finally, I just want to take a strong distance from not mentioning most people, unemployment and individuals in the EU. I did that on a number of occasions in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e367	During the change of line with the chairperson of the Committee, she said on behalf of the Group of the Right that the Right wants to join the euro as soon as possible or to have closer economic cooperation. So clearly I have never heard it said before, so I am interested in hearing Myhr's assessment that Norway is going to join the euro as soon as possible – whether it is a vision the Progress Party shares. You may be future government partners, so it is interesting to know if you have the same view as the Right in the euro area. Then I have one more question, and that is whether it affects your view that the EU is moving more and more federally, and that the Norwegian people will have less and less power in any EU membership. Are we still equally convinced that it is wise when we see the great challenge we face in relation to the euro, and we see the direction the European Union is going in where the big countries are getting more power and the small ones are getting less? Is it still as strong a belief that Norway is wise to join the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e374	In the case of disagreement between parties in so far as the whole of the European issue is concerned, I will not try to compete with the parties in government. I think that there are differences between the Advance Party and the Right EU policies. However, the Progress Party has not taken any initiative and does not wish to introduce the euro into Norway at this stage. Of course, this is something you have to keep up with. With regard to the EU as a federal state, there is a trend in the EU in which Norway has no influence. We could be for it, or we could be against it. But we have an EEA agreement. Without that EEA agreement, we would have mass unemployment and a huge production and export loss in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we maintain the EEA Agreement, even if we have no influence on how the EU organises its own activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e381	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e384	Keep up with the welfare state, report the Wall Street Journal on the pitch in one of the August editions. Countries with good welfare arrangements tolerate the financial crisis better than countries with poor people. At the same time, countries with weak welfare arrangements are now most under pressure to cut them. Tax systems and social transfers can make important contributions to stabilising the social economy when incomes are falling rapidly in a society, either by the failure of export markets, by investment less, or by unemployment in the world. Good welfare arrangements, therefore, are not only good in themselves – they also encourage society as a whole to be more resistant to economic setbacks. As we know, there is now a debate on economic policy following the financial crisis. And there is no doubt that the government budget deficits are already unmanageably large in many countries. Not least, from the autumn of 2008, huge amounts of money have been spent on breathing lives in banks and other financial institutions. Sooner or later, they have to go under, but the danger is that expenses will be cut before the economy is properly re-started, which the Foreign Minister was also involved in his speech. It is the debate on economic and social policy, not least the economic and social model on which Europe will build for decades to come, which, in addition to the environment and climate, is the major European debate that is now taking place and will continue for years to come. Then, too, there is a very central question of what are the underlings of a European welfare model. Because what we now know from a very broad research base is that a central commitment for a functioning welfare state is small economic and social differences, relative equality in society, and that there is a close link between small differences and welfare state. In most of the last century, economic and social differences were less pronounced in most European countries, including Norway. However, since the 1980s, developments — including in most European countries, including Norway — have gradually changed. From the same period we have also experienced extensive liberalisation and privatisation, and I have now been aware of a major European research cooperation that tries to see whether there is any connection in this. The research environment in six European countries has taken up four service industries in each of the countries and has already come out with about one out of every one. Twenty sub-reports on it. The research reports conclude that the liberalisation and privatisation of key public services entails a two-part working life. Well-organised wage earners in what was once a public monopoly are capable of raising old standards of pay and working conditions, while many others have to work with low wages and poorer working conditions in companies that compete between themselves to survive. So one might ask: can't competition in one sector lead to increased profitability and more jobs in other sectors? Researchers have not yet been able to detect. According to researchers, liberalisation and privatisation have, rather, led to fewer jobs, more people working part-time, having temporary jobs or jobs as contractors. The conclusion of the major research cooperation sees inter alia: as follows: liberalisation and privatisation so far have a competitive model that is largely based on reduced wage costs and not on quality improvement and innovation. As long as liberalisation is associated with a deterioration in working conditions, there will be a continuing lack of legitimacy among large parts of those added as this debt. I spend some time on this, because I think of it as the real and big European debate on economic and social policy in the years to come. Several of the directives which the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now addressing, for example: the postal directive and the temporary agency directive come directly into this. And then I'm going to say that it was a good deal from the Secretary of State. Not least, it was wise to put great emphasis on many of the political processes at a late stage, but also at a relatively early stage in the process, and that they came up for debate. I also think that there is a wide-ranging debate that we in the Foreign Affairs Committee, in Parliament, in the government, should have in the future, whether one should take action more systematically to bring the debate on major political processes in Europe into the Grand Duchy at an earlier stage, not only in terms of distribution, but also in terms of matters. I would like to invite you to a discussion about it. I think there are many positive features in how we discuss it in Stortinget, but I share the views of the representative Sven Roald Hansen – not his view of the EU – when it comes to the fact that there is a significant potential for improvement in the way we work on this in the Norwegian Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e402	I have a question for the representative, Solhjell. SV goes in to cancel the EEA Agreement. As has been the case in the debate here today, 70 pst is coming. of our imports from this area, and 80 pst. of our exports go to this area, so that for Norwegian business and Norwegian trade this is a very important agreement. Has the representative, Solhell, thought about the consequences of cancelling the agreement when we are as commercially dependent on the EEA as we are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e408	Now we are in a government that agrees not to seek EU membership, but to base our policy on the EEA Agreement. We are quite a few of them. Then it is quite right that the SV programme says that we want to replace the EEA Agreement with another comprehensive agreement with the EU. Switzerland has another form of agreement, which is not the EEA Agreement, that regulates it – or a set of agreements. We used to have a free trade agreement. Our view is that it is possible to find other forms of agreement with the EU that will regulate trade and other relations related to the EU, mainly because both Norway and the EU have an interest in having a clear economic relationship and a high level of free trade. That's the background for that vision. Finally, I would just like to make it clear that when it comes to both the EU and the EEA, we have a clear government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e415	Greece, Spain and Portugal are all guided by the left. Greece, Spain and Portugal all have unemployment rates significantly above the EU average. All countries have youth unemployment rates that are close to 50pst. All three countries are nationally characterised by a policy that is far to the left. There is no need to salute the European left. It is the country’s own national policies that have led to a more severe financial crisis now than almost all other countries in the EU. It is the country’s own national policies that have the dual unemployment of the EU average, and it is the country’s own national policies that lead to youth unemployment that no other country in Europe sees fit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e422	On the other hand, there is reason to pay tribute to the Nordic welfare model that the left-hand side has driven in the Nordic and other countries of northern Europe, which systematically improves the Nordic countries and those who do not have our oil revenues than many of the other European countries. It is quite right that there are many national reasons, for example: a lower level of income and an over-exploitation in each country. But it is also such that for a country like Greece, for example, it would be easier to deal with the financial crisis if they were not a member of economic and monetary union, just like Norway now. Now they have EU interest rates and have to take full account of fiscal constraints, i.e. public expenditure. If Norway were an EU member, we could not have had an interest rate level of just over a percentage point above the common EU interest rate, but would have had to regulate policy unambiguously through fiscal policy. So it is also linked to EU conditions, although, of course, there are significant national conditions that justify the crisis in individual countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e429	Let me first correct Solhjell's history description. It's not that the left side has patents on the Nordic welfare model; it's a political common good where not least the Christian People's Party has contributed to the development of the Norwegian welfare society, and we know that we have shares in it. I have a question for the representative, Mr Solhjell, because I listened attentively to what he said about the Storting should take more important EU matters into the Chamber for debate earlier than when they come to final consideration. I just remember that an overall opposition for a long time tried to get the Services Directive to such a debate in Stortinget, but the then government – which is also the current government – opposed it. We got the case when it was ready for final treatment, but to a very small extent we got the opportunity for a wide-ranging debate. It is now the data storage directive, it concerns the postal directive, and I wonder how the representative Solhjell intends to contribute to this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e436	I think I'm missing the discussion about the history description and I'm answering the question instead, because it's an important question. This applies to some of the political controversial directives we have here, but perhaps even more so to those directives where there is broad agreement in Norway on how we should work, and where getting an early debate in the Storting could involve not only government officials and politicians, but a broader political Norway to enter into processes earlier. When I take it this way in my post, it's because I don't have the final answer, but I want a debate and a reflection on how it could happen. There you could imagine everything from your own initiative from Stortinget to the presentation of the type of white papers and other things from the government. I want to make it clear that I don't have the answer to this challenge, but I think that there was an invitation to the Foreign Minister's posts, and more from both the opposition and the position have kept posts that were moving towards that we should discuss it more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e445	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e448	On Tuesday, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs made his statement, the President of the European Council almost simultaneously stated the following: ‘The debt crisis can overwhelm the EU as a whole. [[...]] We're in a crisis of survival. We must work together to survive with the euro zone, because if we do not survive with the euro zone, we will not survive with the European Union.' Clearly, it cannot be said, but one might be somewhat surprised that one chooses to equalise the euro project with the EU itself. The financial crisis caused us to experience a sharp decline in global economic growth in late 2008 and early 2009. Eurostat estimates that 23.1 million people in the EU were unemployed in September this year. Unemployment has hit the euro zone hardest. Although this does not provide a basis for saying that the euro is responsible for the high unemployment rate in these countries, we see that those countries that have not adopted the euro are even better off, including those that have not adopted the euro. in relation to unemployment, other than the euro area countries. What we see is happening in many of our closest co-operation countries is very worrying. Although there have been some points of light since we had a debate last autumn, there have been more unemployed people in the euro zone, not fewer, and that is the third year in a row where the queue is growing. What worries me the most is that there are people in their most productive age who go from the school bench to the unemployment line. In Spain, almost every other youth you meet on the street is out of work. There are more unemployed young people in the EU than there are Nordics in Norway, and there are still more EU countries with negative growth. The financial crisis has led to a sharp deterioration in public deficits in 2009, and this trend appears to continue. In other words, the financial crisis has evolved from being a financial crisis to becoming a debt and unemployment crisis. Everyone, regardless of whether he or she is a member of the EU, must hope that the EU countries will be able to reverse the trend, because it is the ordinary man and woman and youth affected. We in the Centre Party are pleased that we in Norway have our own currency and are not involved in euro cooperation. We have always pointed out more issues when creating a single currency in the European Union as problematic. The euro is a major experiment, with economic and social governance in a number of European countries with very different history and economies. The introduction of the euro took place to a large extent despite the will of the people in the countries it was introduced. The euro zone countries today have one currency and one interest rate policy, but different budgetary policies. Over time, this could have serious consequences when countries are unable to cool down their own economies or stimulate increased economic activity. This is what we see in Ireland now. We've seen this in Spain. If these countries had the opportunity to regulate their own economy and national interest rates, it would have been much more possible to counteract the crisis and mitigate its effects. Instead, it had a major impact on the economy and unemployment — because it was not possible to do so. What is now happening, including: France’s and Germany’s Treaty change initiative underpins what we in the Central Party have said in the past: the euro cannot survive over time if at the same time it does not establish a Union for more political governance of the economy at the transnational level. Following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon after a long process, many thought that there was now a break in the Treaty in the EU, that no changes to the Treaty basis would be made in the long term. The initiative from France and Germany to amend the Treaty in the context of the handling of the euro crisis is a telling example of the increasing pressure on the EU peaks for more integration – across the population – in many Member States. For me, there is a great cross-thinking in this process that the focus on introducing control mechanisms and institutions comes only after major crises and collapses in the economy of several countries. What I see as the fundamental problem in the EU now is that the ambitions of the strongest ideologists are so great that when you're going to deal with reality, it becomes very demanding. I am afraid that what we have now seen in euro cooperation is also going to be seen in foreign policy. The ideological ambitions are so great. They want a common foreign policy. You want to have a common foreign service. But when it comes to reality, each country, at least the big countries, will run its own policy. With regard to the introduction of various directives, we also see that market thinking is totally dominant in relation to other societal considerations. Finally, I would like to say one thing: what surprises me after hearing the debate until now is that those who were Europeans last year are equally strong Europeans this year. Those who were completely uncritically positive to the euro last year are equally positive to the euro this year. It almost seems as if no matter what happens, the EU is the answer. Whatever happens, the euro is of the good. So sometimes I wonder what's going on in order to say something critical about the evolution of the euro.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e472	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e475	Earlier today, the representative, Mr Slagsvold Vedum, has carefully explained the percentage of the Norwegian people who are not members of Norwegian EU membership. But there is a large majority in the Norwegian people who are in favour of us having the EEA Agreement – and it wants the Centre Party to resign. 80 pst. Norwegian exports go to EU countries. Then my question is to the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum: Does the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, believe that this can be maintained after the termination of the EEA Agreement – if the Central Party gets what they want? And, if that is not possible, how will the Senter Party address the problems that will arise in that case from a dramatic reduction in Norwegian exports to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e482	Sometimes the story goes in circles, because I remember – although I was not so old then – that in 1993 and 1994, before the EU vote, many people predicted that if we did not join the EU, there would be mass unemployment in Norway. It hasn't happened. It has been quite successful; it has been better with the countries outside than with very many of the countries inside. So the great words and the great horror visions the Norwegian people have heard and witnessed before. They made mistakes in 1994, and now they're wrong about that kind of vision. When we say that we want an agreement with the EU other than the EEA Agreement, we say that we want another agreement that ensures safe and good trade relations between Norway and the EU as equivalent parties. Norway is undoubtedly dependent on the EU for our trade, but the EU is also dependent on having a good relationship with us because we sell goods that the EU needs. So it's not about canceling an agreement without having another agreement in place. We need stable and good framework conditions for Norwegian business and Norwegian industry. Now we are building on the EEA Agreement in today's government. But if it had changed, we would also have had a new agreement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e489	When I hear Mr Vedum's very strong arguments against the Union – against the EU and against everything that is happening within 27 European countries – I have the impression that it must have been a good idea to support the report on the implementation of European policy. Has the Centre been tricked into having such a proactive approach to the main agreement we have in Norwegian foreign policy, which is crucial for the production of goods and services in the country of origin? Secondly, can the representative explain to Stortinget what would be better in Greece, better in Spain and better in Portugal if they did not have the euro currency? Would trust in national banks and confidence in business and trade be stronger without the euro link?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e497	I believe that a major problem for the European Union, as we see it today, is that there have been so many ambitious ideologists who have pussiness in the EU very quickly in the future, among others. in order to establish a single currency before common management systems are put in place. The consequences of a single currency must be that one should have stronger federal governance, and that was not a popular basis for it. So I believe that the main problem we see in the European Union now is that some ideologists have been pushed forward in a direction that has not been popular or nationally anchored. You should also see, you who have been Europeans over time, that the push that has been made for the euro, and now also for a common foreign service, is damaging European cooperation over time, because it is going to create conflict and social unrest. It has no popular grounding, and it is not a wise policy for the European continent. And then we speak critically about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e502	The representative Battle Violence Vedum is very concerned with currency today. That's good. There are many types of monetary union in the world – the United States is one of them, China is another. Norway is a monetary union. It will always be that some parts of a Union will not be satisfied with the monetary policy pursued in other parts of the Union. In the United States, there are countries that are technically bankrupt – California is probably one of them. However, there is one monetary union. In Norway, the economy of South Norway may not be appropriate to the economy of parts of North Norway, to take another example. I would like to ask the representative for violence against Vedum: what does he think the consequences would be, for example. for the export industry in Norway if we had a weak currency and a low interest rate today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e511	I thank you for the question. It's an interesting debate. The representative Astrup first talked about the United States. The United States has a strong federal state, with strong federal muscles to trigger action. That is exactly what I think is the consequence of the euro: one must also go in that direction in the EU, because a structure has now been built that does not have a political governance foundation. It is a major problem that creates instability. Now that there is a crisis in Greece and Ireland, the EU does not have sufficient muscles to take action. The European Union is not a popularly anchored project. The United States is a popularly anchored project. There's a national community, in the state of the United States. There is no such thing in the European Union. Then it becomes a problem when you create such a construction that you don't have popular anchoring, and you don't have real economic anchoring. The challenge for Greece, Germany and Portugal is that countries are so different, and that policy will not work well enough. This is a problem for the whole EU system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e518	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e521	The debate on whether the euro is part of the problem or the solution to the financial crisis is interesting. There is no clear answer to that. However, I believe that both the supporters of Norway’s need to enter the euro zone as soon as possible and its opponents should study the experience of the pressures that Europe is now facing and make its reflections. For my part, I believe that Ireland's deep economic crisis clearly shows the weakness of a single currency, a common monetary policy, in countries with as many differences in economic status and course as we now have in Europe. The Irish economy came under the name of the Celtic tiger in the 1990s, and the country had a verifiable debt that was roughly at the level of gross domestic product at the time of the introduction of the euro. Then, because of the too low level of interest rates in the euro zone, a rapid growth in borrowing has been achieved on terms that Germany could obtain. It has created some of the bubble with which the Irish are now struggling – a government debt that in 2009 corresponded to almost four times the country’s gross domestic product. In adapting monetary policy to the large countries, the small countries, with a different course of economic activity, will have to shift the burden of necessary adaptations to the population in the form of strong social cuts, with dramatic unemployment resulting in many cases. So eurocooperation is probably making the financial crisis much deeper than is necessary in countries like Ireland and Greece. It is the most vulnerable people in the labour market who pay in terms of high unemployment. The representative Svein Roald Hansen called for Norway to have a stronger ambition to participate where we are going to. It is an ambition for the Christian People's Party to share based on the form of association we have, and with the solutions we have developed in different areas in addition to the EEA Agreement. But I have to take this opportunity to say that we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, are not satisfied with the ambition of the government to participate where they are going to. Because that's what the government has done to a small extent this year. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has recognised that the frequency of meeting activities in the field of ministerial meetings should be improved. But we've heard that several times before from the foreign management. It hasn't gotten any better. That is why I am interested in knowing what the Minister of Foreign Affairs will do with the College of Government, because this cannot be a series of individual decisions of state councils. There must be a coordinating hand on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister if this is to be something other than a recurring exercise here in our Europe debates. We have an important role to play in the EEA, because we finance, through the financial instruments, a very large part of the social development of parts of the EU area. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, highlighted a more active Norwegian position on the disposal of these funds, in cooperation with the recipient countries. That's $14.4 billion in the period we're facing. I would like to take this opportunity to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs if Norway is not able to focus more on its efforts in relation to the marked social problems in the EU area, which Norway also notes. I may be thinking specifically of the Roma people, who are now being hunted from country to country in Europe. There are obviously some basic social problems there, which should have been solved. I see that Norway could contribute to this in cooperation with the countries where the problems are greatest. Let me conclude by saying that we are facing an important phase in the clarification of the so-called AMT Directive, which, if implemented as it has been adopted, will oblige Norway to open up alcohol advertising on Norwegian TV screens, in Norwegian homes. It is an important intervention in Norway’s alcohol policy systems. The aid granted by the Christian People's Party to the EEA Agreement was in due course conditional on a guarantee from the then government that the important alcohol policy instruments could be maintained under the EEA Agreement. That is why we expect the current government, which is also led by the Workers' Party, to use the tools available to stop this directive in relation to Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e538	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e541	The Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party and the government at least agree on one thing – that this agreement on the EEA that we have today is the very one, the very best of the situation we are in. The high-rise has been, and is still, a strong defender of the EEA Agreement, and that is good. On the web pages of the Christian People's Party, there is some argument as to why we should not become members of the EU. That's all right. It is justified, inter alia, by: with a lack of democracy, poor freedom of action, agreement in foreign policy, etc. etc. What I want to achieve is: does the representative of the High Commissioner think that democracy is well developed under the EEA Agreement, and does the High Commissioner feel well about the various directives that are being pulled down on us by the EU system? Is that a good democracy, how we deal with those things?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e548	It is well known that the Christian People's Party is opposed to the Union, but we are as strong a follow-up to a dynamic EEA agreement, which is both active – in the way I spoke of in my speech – and which can be developed and expanded, as we have done in areas such as veterinary cooperation, such as Schengen cooperation, and as it may be in other areas. But there is a very big difference between the lack of influence – which we have to recognise – in the direct political decision-making bodies of the European Union and the commitment that we would be subject to by being part of a common foreign policy, a common fisheries policy, a common agricultural policy and a common overall governance of the economy through the monetary union.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e556	This is an important debate. There is an important debate to be held in plenary, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for his presentation. It is important that we are able to discuss both the whole and individual matters in Parliament, and it is important that Parliament has information on developments in the issues of the Norwegian people. I believe that the contribution from the SV parliamentary leader was also exciting in this respect. I want to raise some of the directives that it is important to point out to us as the liberal party. The EU's renewable directive is a directive which the Left believes is very good and which can help to convert our high fossil energy consumption here in Norway as well. An investigation carried out by the ZERO Environmental Foundation shows that the Renewable Directive can help to reduce Norway’s CO2 emissions by about 10 million tonnes. It corresponds to emissions from approx. Four million cars, in which case we will achieve the goals that we have set ourselves in the climate agreement. The Renewables Directive is also very good for the Norwegian economy. Energy Norway has recently received a report showing that the green value added in Norway in 2020 can rise to 5 pst. GDP. Very much of this value creation is going to happen where the energy is produced, i.e. in District Norway. It is therefore surprising that the government seems to want to negotiate our obligations towards this directive. Norway’s situation with a lot of hydropower – which has already given us an advantage and which also gives us great benefits in terms of cheap energy – is not an argument that Norway should escape the responsibility for increasing the share of renewable energy today. In addition, Norwegian energy consumption is far from as environmentally friendly as we like to produce it. More than half of the energy we use in Norway is fossil, and Norway is not at all in a completely different world compared to the rest of Europe; there is a alarming need for renewable energy use, from fossil to renewable, in the rest of Europe as well. The left considers that Norway needs to take on the ambitious commitments that the implementation of the EU renewable directive will lead to, and we do need measures to reduce these emissions. Governments were very brief in their presentation regarding the Data Storage Directive, DLD. I just need to be made clear that the EU minimum requirements for the Data Storage Directive go far beyond the Left's limit is willing to accept in terms of monitoring. The introduction of that Directive would be to move borders far. There is strong opposition to the EU directive – both Romania and Bulgaria and Germany have argued that the directive is illegal. The left must admit that for us it is not solved to use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement, but we believe that here we have reached a point where it should be done. The whole directive is also under evaluation, and it is so easy to avoid having worked a lot in our sister parties internationally to have this affected in a positive direction. Then I have to make a few comments about it: it is nice that the Stortinge has set up an office, but the most important thing, and the demanding thing, with the cooperation with the EU in the future, is that the government must realise that we, the parties in Parliament, have a very great impact on EU policy – sometimes as much as bureaucrats from departments who are jumping and gloating towards the Commission. Parliament is becoming more important and important, and we in the Left are using a lot of energy, and a lot of work, to follow up the work of the European Parliament and influence our sister parties to take the steps we think are important to take. I have to draw myself to a three-minute also, President, but I can say something about asylum: the Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentioned asylum seekers and conditions in Greece in his statement, but it almost sounded as if he thought that now an agreement had been reached and that everything was good. It's not. The left made a proposal in this room on 4 October to stop everything until we are sure that the procedures will be followed, and to sign both the EU directives and the refugee convention so that this will be followed in Greece's procedures. We in the Left support our close and good cooperation in the field of asylum and refugee in Europe, but that means that we must also ensure that the legal security of refugees and asylum seekers is safeguarded and that we do not take on grounds of efficiency in getting there. We should make sure to help those countries that are currently having problems complying with the conventions that we are so high in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e581	I want to touch the Left's relationship with the EU, which I would say has been a moving process. If we go back to 2005, it was a scarce majority – with seven votes in favour – who voted against EU membership at the National Conference of the Left. The Committee on Programmes of the Left made a recommendation to the National Meeting of the Left in 2009 to go for a Norwegian EU membership. Sponheim called it the time when a moving attitude towards the yes side, but the Left has not yet become a yes-party, despite the fact that there are very difficult EU membership-friendly formulations in the party programme. One way of saying that it's alarming, with such a batch program that the Left has, is that they haven't yet taken a yes position. The question then is: how can a national meeting with a majority of EU members end up not taking a clear ‘yes’ position in the EU case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e588	It is a bit funny to say that there was a majority of EU members when the national meeting chose to say no. It is obvious that the left is always going to be divided approx. in the middle of EU membership. What makes us able to hold together as a party in this respect is that the argument for democracy is fundamental. The question is: is the EU system democratic enough, or are we going in to influence it to become more democratic? We believe that the developments in which the European Parliament now gains more power are very positive. It is entirely in line with the Left's wish for the European Union to become. I don't think you'll find anyone at the Left's national meeting that's opposite the EU. The discussion will focus on whether we are against or for Norwegian EU membership. I think it is fantastic that the European Union exists. I think it's amazing that Germans, English and French have to stick together. It has always been a trick to Europe and peace. The question is how we can best take care of Norwegian interests – whether it is done through the EEA Agreement, or whether it is done through membership. It's a lively, exciting debate in the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e602	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Stortinget on the newly opened office in Brussels. The Stortinget has had an ambition, set the conditions straight, and from the turn of the year you are present. Several representatives have taken up their work against the European Parliament. That, I think, is a timely point for discussion in this Chamber, and the importance of working towards the European Parliament has also been the subject of the last statements I have had. The representative Svein Roald Hansen reflects that Stortinget is well placed to work against the European Parliament. The representative of Skei Grande believes that the Norwegian Grand Prix parties have a very strong influence on the European Parliament and are better than the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work against the EU institutions. All of this I take as a good ambition. I'll use the opportunity to mention one thing where I think it's important to put those contacts into commitment. This concerns the groupings of parties in Parliament's work on Arctic issues, because I have noticed that the reports that have been drawn up, the strategy proposals, have far on the way taken care of the main points of view that Norway has had and that we have spent time recording. But when the party groups make their comments, it is similar and different – if I may say so – with proposals that we do not believe necessarily serve Norwegian interests. This, I think, is an area where the various party groups can assert themselves, because here I feel that we have a parallel view of Stortinget and Norwegian parties. With regard to the question of the participation of the Councils in the informal ministerial meetings, I have said in my statement that it can be better. How can it get better? Well, there will still be a lot of emphasis on using that channel from the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's office, and also from my side. Now it's going to swing a little bit. I'll do an example. The Minister of Administration now faced a choice, whether to attend the Church Meeting in Norway — she is responsible for those questions — or to attend an informal meeting. I believe that she did wisely in choosing the first. Therefore, it is not possible to create a template where you say that these informal meetings always take precedence over everything else, because the quality of the meetings, the agenda for what happens there, may vary. But it's important that we participate, and I just want to add: let's stress the importance of using that channel, but in the debate it almost looks like it's the only channel we have for informal influence. It's not. There are meetings with politicians, Commissioners, bureaucracies, etc., and we are active along many of those contact areas. As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, we need to follow up on how it can still be our important instrument now that the EU is changing. I have pointed out that the EU is facing three major – if I can call it – digestive processes: continued work on enlargement, work on the euro, we have talked today about how demanding it is, and the digestion of the new Treaty. I see that the head of the EEA investigation, Professor Fredrik Sejersted, follows the debate from the gallery. That's good, because we're waiting in suspense for the research-based review. For us, it is important that we ensure the same good channels towards the EU system that we have had under previous arrangements. I will have consultations with the Belgian EU Presidency on Sunday. But it is clear that the Presidency is now of less importance than it was under a previous regime – not inconceivable, but not as dominant as it was before. We also need to work towards the new institutions. I note the emphasis of Mr Hansen on this with equal treatment on the access of parliaments to legislation. That is what I will do to bring up at the meeting of the EEA bodies in Brussels on Monday. Then I will commend the representative Myhre first, and then the representative Solhjell, who goes into the debate on the financial crisis. I have tried to emphasize it in my presentations, because I think it is something that actually concerns us – to take the debate on what the consequences of this is. Our political positions will give us different approaches to both cause, effect and follow-up, but the most dangerous thing would be if we did not discuss in this room and in the Norwegian social debate the state finance crisis that is now rolling across Europe. It will have profound consequences both for the way countries will solve the acute problems – because it is true, as several representatives say, that it is the countries that have to do – but also the consequences it has for social development, social inclusion, in Europe. For one thing, we now see the consequences, the benefits are privatised and the consequences are socialised. The cuts now come in a way where people who are far from responsible for this have to bear this to the fullest extent possible. That is a serious consequence of this crisis, and we must take that debate. All euro area countries have broken the central guidelines set out in the Treaties on deficit and debt. Therefore, the question of getting back on a sustainable course is important, but how it happens, and what principles are emphasised, well, we have different political views on it. This debate has made a good impression, I think. Then I notice more representatives saying that we should get more issues into debate in Stortinget. I think this is a good proposal. I will, of course, limit myself to saying that it is the Stortinge case how Stortinge organises its work in that area. I believe that in this case – and this kind of thing – it cannot be enough to wait for the government to come forward with its proposal, as is often the case in other debates. If this is about being early in life and getting Norwegian attitudes that we are going to use in influencing work, perhaps we should have a way of discussing future issues – principles and views about this – early in the process. It will be that when the government promotes its view, it is after the government has come up with an opinion, and then we are in the process of making decisions. As regards the Data Storage Directive, the question arises about the possibilities of this evaluation conference. Norway will be there. I don't have the list of views that we're going to take, but it's going to go along this axis that every country is having a debate about: privacy on the one hand and combating crime on the other, the question of storage time, judicial control, technical issues, security, etc. But so the government's attitude is that this matter should be promoted for the Storting. Under the EEA Agreement, we have an obligation to do so – the directive entered into force in the EU in 2007. We're going to do that, but then, of course, we're going to participate in all those debates and places where we can get to with Norwegian vision. With regard to the Commission's work programme, which was taken up by the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are now studying it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Our impression is that these are known things, known matter. We're interfering with it, but we want to make sure that we also bring our assessments of it to Stortinget. Otherwise, the program is available, and everyone can study it and engage in it. So I would like to say to the representative, Højbräten, that his observation on the follow-up to the EEA financial instruments is good and timely, and I can say that that is how we are also trying to work. With the new arrangement for areas of cooperation under the financial instruments and our own agreements with each beneficiary country, we now have the opportunity to go much more country-specific and – what to say – sensitive to the challenges of that country and where we can contribute. One example is Greece, where we have agreed for quite a long time that we should look at issues related to asylum treatment and whether our funds can be used for it. We agree on that, although it is demanding to work with. We now have conversations with several of the other countries that I talked about in my presentation. Having a focus on the space people I think is a good idea. We've also noticed it, and we're following it up. There are currently other conversations with Portugal. Finally, the representative Skei Grande had something to say about directives. I think it is good that we have debates about them. As far as the renewable directive is concerned, I just want to add that Norway should be part of it. We need to figure out a suitable point to get into it. But the exciting and interesting thing about this area in Europe today, both as a result of the energy dialogue we had with Germany a three to four weeks ago, and the discussions with Sweden's Foreign Minister in Oslo two days ago, are how the European countries' renewable efforts are largely linked to Norway's ability to supply both renewable energy and gas power, gas to Europe, because, for example, the investment in electricity and gas supply in Europe. Germany, now on 80 pst. renewable energy by 2050 requires Norway to enter this equation. Norway is the country being brought forward in this strategy, because such a strong commitment to renewable energy — wind and solar — requires a permanent counter-power. There are days without wind and days without sun, and then there has to be availability of stable power resources, for example. the Norwegian hydropower, as the Norwegian gas. So we also have to see our own commitment to that light. Otherwise, I am glad that we have had so far in the debate broad and good speeches around the agenda that is the Norwegian in terms of European policy, and thank you for the contributions that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e641	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e644	The agenda of the day concluded with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He also made it clear earlier, at the previous debate in May, that it is not up to the Labour Party and the Government to apply for membership of the European Union in a situation where it is clearly going to be a new and a third no. This means that the Progress Party and the Labour Party in very many fields have a lot in common with regard to European policy. We are based on an EEA agreement that we want to further develop and expand. But then the Workers' Party has joined the government with its two small friends who want to cancel the EEA agreement. My question then is: does the Central Party and the Left Party, with its positions, have an influence on the government's work on Europe, the EU and the EEA issues, and in what way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e649	The working party does not rank friends as small or large. They're friends, and in this context, they're coalition partners in government. Do they have influence in government? Of course. Do they have an influence on European policy? Of course. Then we can go back to the starting point: it's the Soria Moria Declaration, it's the Prime Minister's general political statements, and that's my presentation here on European policy. There's a whole government behind it. It is a well-known matter that when it came to the Services Directive, we separated layers, and it is a well-known matter that we do not agree on the Data Storage Directive. We have clearly stated that. It is not an objective to achieve that situation, but it is not unnatural after five years of cooperation that it does. But in all small and big cases, this government is working to reach agreement, a common platform, and there are three parties behind it. Then they must also compromise, whether they are large or medium-sized or small. So they're equivalent in the political discussions. It has worked well until now, and it's going to work well for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e656	I also want to follow up on the previous question concerning the Data Storage Directive. There were a few sentences in the statement from Tuesday about it. This is a very important thing that the government currently has no policy for, because you have two parties in the government that have one vision, and one party that has a different vision. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, When will the government be able to agree with itself on this issue? Is there any possibility that the Senterpartiet and SV on this issue will be given a copy of their views, so that the reservation right in the EEA is used in this important case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e665	In this case, the government parties agree to disagree. It's been clear for over a year. Then the sum of the way the government works, that in that situation the government's position will be clear. When we present a matter, it's on government basis. For the Workers' Party, the position has been that if the investigations, the collection of views, show that it is possible to strike a good balance between privacy and the fight against crime, the Workers' Party is in favour. When that case is presented, it is going to be on that basis. Have the two parties had any influence? Yes, I think the whole social debate has an impact on this. The Data Storage Directive is about this weighting. We have to keep up with and fight crime when it comes to the new media, when new technologies are used. At the same time, we are focused on and concerned about prioritising privacy. Is that the balance? Yes, it exists and will be found in the grips and adaptations that Norway will make to the inclusion of that Directive. Otherwise, the government comes to Stortinget with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e676	It's cold in here, but maybe it's time to get into the heat in Brussels? When, in a reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 6 May, I asked about the consequences of Norway's relationship with the EU being moved from the Commission to the new Foreign Service, the answer was that this would go well. In recent times, we have seen both in the media and in the statement Tuesday that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned, disturbed and afraid of lack of access at political level. What has changed in the last six months, and what will the Foreign Minister do on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e685	I can warm the representative Astrup by saying that we focus on securing access that is of the same quality as it has been in recent years. I have also said in interviews on this question that I have good faith that we will, because I don't think it's in anyone's interest not to have the good dialogue. But at the same time I have said that it is not something that comes of itself. I'm worried if it turns out that we're getting less access, less hearing. I believe, because this'something' is not something we're doing to be okay with each other, but because we have common interests, that we're going to succeed with it. It will be a topic for me in my speeches on Monday in meeting with the EU side that we are now ensuring a good and predictable dialogue for Norway when setting up this new foreign service, when transferring responsibility. The signals we get from it are positive. But up to everything else in the EU now is busy, we cannot expect this to be at the top of the agenda. That is why we must do as the Swedish Foreign Minister advised us to: knock hard on the door. We're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e696	The Minister for Foreign Affairs highlighted a very new growth strategy for Europe in his speech. In that case, innovation, research and education are heavily dependent on being able to implement it. He added in his statement that Norwegian operators have to keep up and have the ability to claim themselves. In that case, I wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is satisfied with the research budget presented by the government to keep up with the growth strategy of Europe. NIFU STEP says this is the weakest budget for ten years' research. Participation in the EU Framework Programme on Research, Universities and Higher Education requires considerable investment. We've even gone away from the goal of tying the 3pst. goal of research. If we're going to participate in everything that the Foreign Minister points out as important, why isn't it important to participate in the research with the weight we could do as a nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e705	I think it's a pretty good communication strategy that has created a picture that Norway is following in research. This government has increased the appropriations for research systematically and in real terms year by year. The Minister for Research has a clear focus on the importance of European cooperation, the Framework Programme, which I also briefed on in my presentation. I think we're going to see, when we look back over these years, that Norway has strengthened itself in this area, and that in the years we're going into now, with strong cuts in the various European countries, Norway, through wise planning, has the ability to maintain research through our research institutions and also incentives that the private part of this equation, which determines what you're contributing, which has been lower for Norway, will be able to stay. So I do not agree with the premise, which is constantly being argued that Norway is not betting on research. On the contrary, we have a strong reality on it, and I think we're going to see that it also produces fruits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e714	You're getting a little hotter going up and down! I am not going to ask the Foreign Minister the question of cutting the gap in research, as a former Minister of Knowledge called it, but on the contrary about the renewable directive. In Norway, we have a climate deal, in which all parties outside the Progress Party are involved, with very ambitious targets of cut in emissions of 15-17 million tonnes by 2020. It will assume that we both save energy, that we get more renewable energy, and that we use less fossil energy for heating and transport. If we comply with the climate agreement, and if the government has the ambition to meet the climate deal, the requirements set by the EU in the renewable directive will not be particularly difficult to meet. On the contrary, they will be a prerequisite. Is it the case that the government intends to bury the climate agreement, or is it the signal we are now seeing, when trying to negotiate the obligations of the renewable directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e727	The President will be told that it is an important recognition that when you reduce energy consumption, it becomes a little cooler, among other things. in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e730	It's not a government strategy to reach the climate agreement that it's colder in the staging room. But I really want to answer that question very easily. Of course, the government is behind the climate agreement. It shall be introduced. So the renewable directive and the way we deal with it will be one part. It's not a one-to-one relationship how we do it, how we live up to the climate deal. Among other things, there will be: cooperation with Sweden and other countries on the development of new renewable energy is important. But we are going to negotiate a solution to our obligation in the renewable directive, which we believe is feasible and which is wise in an overall context. This will also have to be seen in the perspective of the opportunities Norway has to be part of the work of other European countries on its renewable share. In fact, in the large environmental context, if we can really contribute to Germany and the United Kingdom making quantum leaps in terms of renewables, which is in line with the figures we have, well, then we can make a significant effort for a better environment in Europe and also globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e737	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e740	We can probably agree in this room that there are warmer in the globe, considering Astrup's points around the temperature in the hall. Organised racism, or what we often call right-wing extremism, wins parliamentary power all over Europe. Since the beginning of the 1980s, the right-wing parties have both polished their profile and kept their racist roots and, in some cases, Nazi roots. The goal, of course, is power and influence. So far we can unfortunately say that they have succeeded in many places. The new presentation has given them increasing respect both in the media and in other parties, so the people have voted in favour of them in the European Parliament and also in many national parliaments. In Hungary, the party received Jobbik 15 pst. by the votes cast for the European Parliament and nearly 17 pst. in the Hungarian elections. In the Netherlands, Geert Wilders received him, among others. Assimilated Quran with Hitler’s Mein Kampf, 17 p.m. by the votes, and the Freedom Party became the second largest party. For the first time, the United Kingdom is represented by a foreign enemy party in the European Parliament, the British National Party. In the French regional elections, Front National got 9 pst. In Sweden the Swedish Democrats entered the parliament at the elections in September. Jobs have also taken the initiative to cooperate between several of the far-right parties in Europe. In October 2009, a new extreme right-wing alliance, The Alliance of National Movements, was established in Budapest. It includes, inter alia: also the Swedish National Democrats. Then we see that in several European countries, the Roma are discriminated against and deprived of fundamental rights. The four freedoms must apply to all citizens of Europe. A track where there are some groups of people who do not have the same fundamental rights is dangerous. Most people are not racists, nor in Europe. But I think it is an important question and an important theme to raise in this debate: why does racism seem to increase in Europe? Why do many non-white men feel so excluded that they go to rebellion, like us, for example. So in Paris’s suburbs in 2005? Fortunately, we are not going to have the 1920s and 1930s again with total collapse in Europe and war, and that is thanks to, among other things. political cooperation in Europe and through the EU. Luckily, it's too strong. But when there is an economic crisis, when there is a financial crisis with mass unemployment, social unrest and a decline in wealth, it is easy for racist attitudes to be strengthened. This challenge is primarily the one of the different national states, and we need politicians who take a great deal of distance from racist positions both here in Norway, in the European Parliament and in the various EU bodies. It is important that politicians show their way. We must call for freedom of expression, freedom of belief, the four freedoms of the European Union and other key values that have shaped and formed Europe. If we are to prevent young people from being caught by environments that produce hatred, violence and also killings, such as ours. now seen in Malmö, a policy for an extended hand is needed for young people in the risk zone throughout the continent of Europe. Those who feel marginalized must say like Trond Barth Andersen, who was a businessman and right-wing politician in Brumunddal, when in 1989 he decided to seek out the displaced environment in Brumunddal: ‘Youth must understand that it makes more sense to work with the youth home and go to the forest than to hunt asylum seekers and immigrants.’ I very much agree with that. At the end of the day, I just want to stress that we have strong and political cooperation with our Party Group of Social Democrats and Socialists in the European Parliament. It is actually the only party group in the European Parliament that has representatives from all 27 Member States. It is a cooperation that we in the Labour Party in Norway prioritise. Some of the things we do, among other things. have been working on it, is the EU's Arctic policy. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the U.D. staff, who have made a formidable effort in relation to our Northern Region policy, and for which we are now starting to see a real breakthrough in Europe, both in the Commission and in the last document presented by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the European Parliament, which is what is now under consideration in the European Union. We're going to enjoy that, but it doesn't come of itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e769	First of all, I will be allowed to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs the honour of a good and thorough presentation, which also traditional belief was included in some of the directives that are now under consideration or which have the possibility of change. I'm going to go into a couple of them, a couple of the things that are now happening, but first of all I just want to say that after that change, by virtue of what has happened to the Treaty of Lisbon, it is also very important that we have a much greater focus than we have had in the past on the European Parliament. It is clear that in the past the Commission and the Council were incredibly much more important than Parliament was. Now you have a slightly different distribution of the task and responsibility. So it is important that we have a great deal of focus on this very Parliament. It is then gratifying that the Stortinget has now finally got its Brussels office in place. The president was down there and opened this office. It was nice to finally have the Icelandic flag removed, so Norway was attached to this mission. That's the way it goes when it goes a little fast. What is nice about the fact that the Storting is also established there is that in many contexts it is clear that bureaucrats talk well to bureaucrats, but politicians talk best to politicians. That's why it's important that we use this arena. But I also think it is important that the government, not least the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs, also play a role in these matters, perhaps get even more exchanges before these matters, so that you can become even more involved. If it goes in the direction that can now be seen within a part of these committees, that perhaps some from the Storting may get into the context of hearing bodies, etc., it is important to play on the ground with regard to both government positions, etc. And what can come. In this case I will go into a few of the directives, but, not least, first go into what goes under the term Single Market Act. In the context of Mario Monti’s presentation on 10 May of its report, ‘a new strategy for the internal market’, it is clear that some of the points there could also be made applicable to Norway. This can have a significant impact on Norwegian policies, including: related to strong focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a very important area that we in Norway also work with now, precisely to look at the framework conditions and how to improve in that area. There are obviously major challenges here that need to be solved. In this context, I just want to refer to the point of, among other things, improved universal access to services for EU citizens, e.g. in banking and health care. Then the question is, Will you go on with what is involved in the Health Directive, which has been introduced, and look at how it will end? I see it as very positive that you can see Europe more as a unit. It is important that we apply this also to Norwegian citizens. Then there is another directive, which I do not find in the Foreign Minister's statement, which is very important, and which will have a negative impact on Norwegian citizens. Of course, it is the deposit directive, which is extended from 1 January, where it is claimed that the deposit guarantee is set at EUR 100 000. If it is applied also to Norwegian citizens and to Norway, it would mean a deterioration in consumer rights in Norway, because, as I said, we in Norway have 2.5 million. kr as the same guarantee. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will later be able to say a little bit about how to tackle this matter now. It was brought on the track in connection with the meetings that we had in Brussels last week, where we looked at: Is this door closed now, or is it the opportunity to look at it? At least you understood that it is possible to discuss this further. I hope, at least, that the government will place strong emphasis on this now, so that the rights of Norwegian citizens as a result of this directive are not weakened, but rather that a strengthened system can be put in place. Finally, I would just like to say that with regard to fisheries policy, I believe that the EU is moving in the right direction with the work done in relation to the Green Paper, among other things. So there are very many positive signals in the relationship between Norway and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e788	The President can inform us that attempts are now being made to increase the temperature in the hall — he believes it is purely physical. - Ivar Kristiansen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e793	I suspect the president to predict what I had on my own agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e798	By no means!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e802	I don't want to go any closer to it. I think today's debate only proves how the European Union as a Union is organised, and the strength it shows in the face of the financial crisis. I believe that both Norway and Europe are doing a service to talk down what the EU is doing today to solve the European part of the financial crisis. You do Norway a bear service by talking this down. I think it is good for Norway and for Europe if the EU succeeds, and I am quite sure that Europe will succeed this time as well. We need a strong political union in Europe that can deal with the other major acts that exist, which are there – whether we are talking about energy policy, about security policy, about climate policy or about solving poverty problems, etc. I think it's to say a little bit of our own branch, if we're going to contribute to such an active work, to talk down on this work in the future, which at least representatives of a couple of parties have done here today. It is not particularly productive, either for Europe or for Norway. I'm not sure, when I hear representatives from the SV and the Center Party today, about Norwegian policy helps to get some better track record in terms of dealing humbly with the world and finding a natural place in the big picture – a country with 4.8 million inhabitants sitting high here north. We're sitting on our petroleum fund, our own lottery prize, and we're going to tell everyone else how you really should behave here in the world. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a strong contribution to the EEA funds and the EEA contribution. Since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement 15 years ago, Norway has contributed to social and economic cohesion in the least prosperous EEA countries. We're still doing that -- and even more so in the future. For some reason, there is very little debate in the Norwegian economy about this significant amount of money, close to 3 billion. kr annually. Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein will contribute about six years. 17 B.C.E. NOK, of which Norway has to stand for almost all of this, i.e. 97 pst. I would have liked the Foreign Minister to comment a little on what kind of national policy, what kind of national color, Norway has wanted, what kind of ambition we are going to have in this area in the future. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has praised the objective of this work, but I believe that we see little ambition to contribute a little more strongly in the field of industrial policy. There may be limitations to developing this enterprise policy environment around joint venture contact, dialogue and development, which is often the best way to develop the nations we plough so much, a lot of money into. Then there's every reason to praise the Minister of Foreign Affairs for having put in place a sharing line agreement, and for us to have put in place a border settlement certificate, which I think means a lot, much more than just that 30,000–40,000 people now don't need to get a visa to cross the Norwegian border. It helps to dampen the world’s greatest welfare gap, helping to link Russia closer to Norway, closer to Europe. I think it helps to link Russia closer to the NATO alliance as such. In the long-term picture, this is actually very, very important. It is going to mean very much also security policy in the dialogue Europe, NATO and Norway need to have with Russia. Just two strings in the end: either we're talking about rocket shields, or if we're talking about the proliferation of nuclear weapons and Iran, we have to go along with Russia in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e822	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation. Particularly worrying in the short and long term is the debt situation of the majority of EU countries. Norwegian policies should pay greater attention to the impact on employment and the economy of normal families in Norway as a result. However, I would like to use my intervention today to link comments to two other elements of the statement, the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and the preparations for the 8th Framework Programme for Research. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive deals with the conditions for television broadcasting in the EEA territory. Recipient countries do not have the right to restrict advertising which complies with the Directive in consignments from other countries. Today, Norway has an adaptation to stop alcohol advertising in consignments targeting Norway. We want to keep this access and extend it to the ground net. The Commission has indicated that the exemption cannot be continued. The government has worked actively against the Commission and selected EU countries for Norway’s position in the case. Our view is based on public health principles that have proven their effect. A number of Community courts have ruled that restrictive alcohol policy pursued by Norway and other countries is not contrary to Community law. The Court has said that a total ban on the advertising of alcohol on television can be both proportionate and necessary if a Member State wishes to do so. Among other things, France has adopted bans on advertising on television, and a number of countries have tightened their alcohol policy, including in marketing. Although Norway is now in a demanding negotiating position, the overall situation of the EU’s alcohol policy is much more positive than in the past. The Commission's Scientific Advisory Committee, the Alcohol and Health Forum, has established that advertising leads to greater consumption and more harm. Norway is therefore on a knowledge-based policy with broad support. The European Court of Justice has supported the French total ban on the advertising of alcohol on television. Community law further identifies a number of issues, including: on alcohol advertising, that a country has the right to decide for itself what restrictions it imposes. There are proposals to be discussed in the European Parliament in December, which could strengthen the restrictions on cross-border advertising in the EU and which could have consequences for the audiovisual directive. Alcohol advertising is part of this discussion. The prohibition of tobacco advertising and the omission of gambling advertising by the Audiovisual Directive shows that the EU will and can implement restrictions in order to create good public health. Norway has been and is the leader in a concrete and active public health policy in these areas. The ongoing policy work between Norway and the EU is therefore very important. The EU Framework Programme for Research is the world's largest international research cooperation. Norway participates in this cooperation on an equal footing with the EU countries through the EEA Agreement. The next generation framework programme will now be prepared and Norway will have the opportunity to make recordings. Through prioritisation, significant resources and global efforts, the best research and innovation environments in Europe will contribute to solutions to major challenges today, such as: in the field of climate and energy. The largest 20-year challenge for welfare countries could be the generational mismatch with too small coals entering the labour market, while a steady increase in life expectancy would lead to a large increase in the number of people with dementia. Today, we do not have a look at how this is to be resolved in order to get fair access to care for everyone regardless of personal finances. Research breakthroughs in understanding and treating dementia are a prerequisite for future stable welfare countries. Norway should therefore contribute to the priority of dementia research in the 8th Framework Programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e841	Earlier this week I followed the Foreign Minister's statement with great interest. It was particularly interesting to hear the Minister of Foreign Affairs' approach to the proposal for a Directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, a proposal he said the government would follow closely in the future because it could affect the need for cost control and planning by each country. It is not difficult to agree that Norway needs cost control and planning, but I would prefer to say that I perceive the government's approach to this to be a little defensive. In our view, there is a lack of a more active attitude from Norway — a clear goal of ensuring that all patients receive prompt and good treatment. Norway should be a driver for the inclusion of specialist health services in this. The Progress Party has long wanted cross-border healthcare and has therefore promoted proposals that went beyond the government during the Grand Duchy’s proceedings in June 2009. Medical cooperation across borders is, in our view, a good thing, not only because it will ensure the exchange and development of skills, but not least because it will strengthen the response to complex and rare diseases. The waiting lists for the Norwegian hospital are today about 260 000 people. By integrating specialist health services into the scheme, many of them are likely to get out of the waiting list more quickly and return to activity. All capacities and competences — in Norway as well as in the EU — can then be put into service. It is good for the patient himself and for the employer, who gets his/her employee back faster, but also by reducing sick pay. It's not just cost control, it's worth patient treatment. There are considerable differences between countries in medical research. The differences make it possible for medical treatment considered ‘experimental’ in Norway to be recognised as a treatment method in other countries. TV 2 told for approx. A week ago, in five years, Martin. He has been offered surgery abroad, which in Norway is considered to be experimental. The treatment costs NOK 430,000, but it can give Martin the opportunity to live a life without a wheelchair. The operation is not refunded by the Norwegian health service. The paradox, however, is that no estimate has been made of what it will cost not to treat Martin. Not only can this boy have to sit for the rest of his life in a wheelchair, but he will probably have a great need for care if he cannot carry out this operation. It should also be included in the government’s assessment when talking about cost control and good patient treatment. We are pleased that the proposal for a directive has arrived and look forward to the results of the debate in the European Union. The proposal is a step in the right direction, but we should like the content to include more services and Norway to do so. Regardless of final content, it is essential that patients are made as simple as possible through good information. It is also very important to ensure a reimbursement system that ensures that individual patients do not interfere with the treatment they receive. For many, the cost of such costs will be insurmountable and, in reality, they will refrain from treatment. We can't be aware of that. The provision of the individual patient is the most important, and it should also be for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e871	A few hours before the EU meeting on Tuesday, President Herman Van Rompuy warned that the debt crisis could overthrow the EU as a whole. Those are serious words, and that is something the Stortinget, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, should debate thoroughly. The focus is now directed from Spain, Portugal and Greece and more towards Ireland. The problems facing the Irish are triggered by housing cracks and the construction sector after the financial crisis. This led the Irish State to take control of most of the major banks. The other countries mentioned — Spain, Portugal and Greece — are now terrified of the infectious effects of the problems that Ireland is facing, which may spread over them again. For Norway, this also has an immediate impact. Norway is the country with the lowest risk of bankruptcy in the world when you look at the pricing of 10-year government bonds. In fact, the price to insure against Norway going bankrupt is 0.215 pst. Never before has a country had such a low price against going bankrupt. The equivalent for Germany is 0.39 pst. and 0.41 pst. for the United States If you take countries that I have mentioned, all of a sudden the pricing becomes a completely different one. In the last few days, there has been an increased focus on Ireland. Jean-Claude Juncker, the leader of the euro zone, said: we will act in a specific and coordinated manner if necessary to ensure stability in the euro zone. If the EU country were to seek help from the EU or the International Monetary Fund, it would mean a strict list of requirements for financial management, which would be accompanied by the loan guarantees. That's also the main reason why the Irish government has so far done everything in its power not to seek help. However, the problems facing Ireland are both acute and serious. An estimated 70 billion. The euro is the money needs of the Irish banking sector. If the Irish banking sector does not get these funds – either through the savings plan of the Irish State, which I doubt will be able to cope with that kind of money, or through privatisation solutions – this will have immediate and dramatic consequences for the whole of Europe and the monetary union. It's worth remembering how monetary union works. The fact that there are so many problems with the euro zone economy also has the effect that the Norwegian currency is being viewed, in the light of what I said about the risk of bankruptcy, as a safe port. Money comes in at, among others. the purchase of not only Norwegian currency but Norwegian government bonds, which in turn means that Norwegian krona increase in value and make it more difficult for the Norwegian competitive sector to compete. At the same time, we have a Norwegian interest rate level that is above what our trading partners have. So the problem of standing outside is also present, and I would like several of my colleagues to reflect on it. It is worth noting that the country with perhaps the largest differences in the north and south of its own country, relative to being part of a monetary union, is Italy — whether it is lire, which Italy had, or now euro. Differences between northern Italy and Germany are relatively small, but between southern Italy and northern Italy are significant, so that national states in a monetary union also have significant problems. Let me finish with what Svein Roald Hansen said in his post, which I think was good. He says, "We are without the right to vote, but we are not without the possibility of influence." And we are "missing" in relation to policy-making, says the representative. I fully agree with that. 25 times we are invited to ministerial meetings. Six times we've met. When the Foreign Minister asks, can we get better? Yeah, obviously, we can start meeting at the meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e888	Although some EU countries can record growth in the economy, the international debt and financial crisis is far from over. The current EU action on crisis, with rigid budget deficit requirements, debt cancellation and related penalties, can easily turn a fragile growth into a new economic downturn. EU President Herman Van Rompuy is so concerned about the debt situation in several countries that he believes it threatens the entire monetary union. A doctorate in a social economy is hardly needed to understand that the imbalance in the EU economy cannot persist over time. In addition, the entire monetary system is now under pressure because the Chinese, with the world's strongest growing economy, refuse to revalue their yuan against dollars. And of course, it doesn't make matters any better that the United States is struggling with a huge budget deficit with China as its main loan creditor. It is easy to agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he notes that the coordination of economic policies in the EU and the euro area is not working well enough and that it is far from the Stabilisation Pact's 3pst budgetary deficit target. of GDP and a loan debt of up to 60 pst. GDP. It is soon only foreign Norway that is able to fulfil such criteria. It shows in particular the strength of the Norwegian economy. But the EU is our most important export market. That is why the European Union's economic problems are also our problems. If the European market fails, Norwegian export businesses and jobs are affected quite immediately. So that's how far we've gone, and we're going to hope that it lasts. The more important it is that we now keep order in our own economy, keep low interest rates, low inflation and stable exchange rates. Stabilisation requirements are already leading to substantial cuts in EU public expenditure. Great Britain boys 25 pst. Half a million public employees lose their jobs. In France, young and older people have marched in the streets in protest against increasing retirement age. Spain, with a unemployment rate of 20 pst. and youth unemployment which is twice as high, cuts also in the public sector and in the acquired pension rights of people. And Greece – yes, Greece is so indebted that they put in a completely separate division in that way. In many European countries, welfare is now being reduced. It also puts the domestic pension debate in a certain perspective. My partners in Europe refer to Norway as a shining example of a country that has seen the pension challenge in time and has created a sustainable pension system together with the social partners. Of course, I do not believe that in this respect it helps well with the State pension fund abroad. But the most worrying thing about today's situation is that economic imbalances are, of course, also a source of significant social unrest. What happens in societies where half of all young people do not have the prospect of work and income, where large young people are forced to live on their parents' income and public budgets? In the wake of this, ethnic conflicts are created, and we record that some people are seeking refuge in far-right organisations and parties. Others return in passivity. I think this is quite serious. We are therefore in a position to compare this – abroad, which has continued to move towards full employment and an oil smoldering economy that everyone else envys. This is probably why domestic EU resistance is growing and has never been stronger. I record that No to the European Union is on the verge of a fight against the EEA Agreement. They are eager for a Swiss solution, a trade agreement that the Swiss themselves are struggling with. In fact, Switzerland is looking for a mechanism more similar to the EEA Agreement, where they do not travel to Brussels and negotiate each time a new Directive is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e903	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e906	I am speaking just to say a little about the security policy debate that is going on in Europe and, to some extent, in the political parties in Europe, among others. The European Union and the EU are only two days before NATO opens its summit in Lisbon, the city that has also given the name of the Treaty of Lisbon in the EU. For some days, the alliance will decide on a new strategic concept of new relations with Russia and not least its relationship with the EU. NATO and the EU remain the key actors ensuring the stability and security of Euro-Atlantic cooperation. They must be important partners. When NATO deals with its strategic concept, it is important that the alliance recognises precisely the Treaty of Lisbon, and that the Treaty of Lisbon, among other things. strengthen Europe's military capabilities and command structures. The so-called Berlin plus agreement between the two organisations on, among other things, military forces need to be improved and it is important that EU defence and security policy does not lead to duplication of structures. And so it is – whether we like it or not – that the transatlantic dialogue on security policy is increasingly going to take place between Washington and Brussels. Then we are not talking about NATO Brussels, but we are talking about the European Union. The EU will also have to play an important role in the debate on future security in Europe, including the debate on a new European security architecture, such as: Now go to the OSCE. For months to come, the EU will also need to put into practice and create content for the so-called Eastern Partnership, which includes the six EU-Russia countries, and which also includes Belarus, as well as Ukraine and four others. It was as far as I remember, Sweden and Poland that in their time took the initiative in Eastern Partnership, and it is therefore going to be very exciting to see if the work is speeding up when Poland takes over the Presidency of the EU on 1 July 2011. I also noticed in the Foreign Minister’s statement that Norway is now placing great emphasis on following the work of strengthening coordination of EU foreign policy, and the consequences it has for us also in practical policies, on practical issues and concrete issues affecting Norway. Finally, something that means much too close contact with several EU countries is the agreement with the EU on EEA funds for 2009–2014. It seems that EEA money means something to countries economically and their social development. But what I want to add, and I have noticed both in the Czech Republic and in Hungary, is that we also put a stamp on these funds from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e923	The crisis now affecting the European Union has been inevitable. In my view, Krisa shows that countries over time cannot have a common monetary policy without the simultaneous establishment of a political union, including, among other things, a single currency and monetary policy. the normal national right to levy taxes and levies in order to finance the Union’s policies. This impossible experiment — economic union without political union — combined with different industrial structures and fiscal policies and the single currency must go wrong in the view of the Centre Party. This is the crucial cause of the crisis that is now seen to develop into the worse. A political union in the EU cannot become democratic when countries do not have a common language of conversation. That is the problem of political union. Ireland is now up to a level of 8 pst. additional interest payments on its debt from the rest of the world. This is scary. It forces the Irish to reduce the expenditure on the State budget to an extreme degree. The devaluation option that Iceland was free to use cannot be used by Ireland as a euro country. This is becoming increasingly evident in the streets of EU countries. They see that they have to take the main burden. It provides a sound basis for social unrest. Combined with the poor integration policies of several countries, this creates a lack of security between people. Historically, this has led to an accident. The nation state, which is not sufficiently maritime, and which deliberately strives for economic, social and cultural equality between peoples, has a great advantage in providing security for people. This is an important aspect of the Central Party's nation-state tradition. The EU is working towards the introduction of a Directive on the minimum harmonisation of bank guarantee schemes vis-à-vis customers. If the minimum guarantee is set at EUR 100 000 instead of our 2 million legislation. kr, this will mean a reduction of about 60 pst. Norway will be the only country to reduce the guarantee. During the first phase of the financial crisis, Norway was the only country that did not need to supplement its deposit guarantee scheme. This has shown that our system and our level of guarantee scheme are good. From the Norwegian side it is therefore necessary to veto if we have to weaken our necessary and well-functioning guarantee scheme of 2 million. NOK at bank deposits in each bank that are within our guarantee system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e932	I want to focus on the EU Data Storage Directive. For me and the Center Party, this is one of the most important issues in this big time period. First, a quick summary of what the directive involves: a massive state imposed collection of information on who communicates with who by phone and e-mail, and where technological developments have made it possible to store where we are at all times. This information shall be stored for a period of at least six months. This monitoring is significantly more systematic and comprehensive than the current storage – and more importantly: a fundamental data protection principle is being reversed on the control of own communication data and erasure. The state is allowed to expropriate this control and to impose a ban on erasure. It is a dangerous way of thinking, which is the rule of law alien. In recent times, there have been various cases of alleged illegal surveillance. Monitoring, however, is not acceptable only because it is provided for in a directive or a law. Human rights establish the right to privacy and free communication. It is not a question of information that will be abused, but it is a question of who will abuse it, and to what extent it will be abused. We cannot decide that storage will take place in Norway. We don't have to trick people into thinking that this information should be in a bunker at Telenor at Fornebu. It might as well be stored on a data in the cabinet of a three-man enterprise in Warsaw. I understand that the police will think such information about us will be useful. The police's needs and desires are exhaustive, and they always want more. In such a situation, we politicians must stand up for the fundamental rights. We must not interpret them away. I am deeply concerned about thinking that the right of people to communicate freely is a problem that needs to be tackled. It's on the contrary a fundamental right that we have to fight for. But the road to the GDR is paved with the good intentions. The centre party must fight hard to stop the directive. It is for us a struggle for democracy, for the rule of law and for the ability of people to communicate freely. The right to free communication is essential whether it is daily communication, the media's source protection, social alerts or communication about policy activities. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is talking about finding a balance between police needs and privacy. That balance sheet is found only without the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e953	The Secretary of State’s statement deserves tribute because it refers to what was and what is – but also what is coming. The latter is important if the Stortinget is to contribute to the design of Norwegian positions before they are promoted in Brussels. The EU’s new energy strategy and the EU’s strategy for energy infrastructure are still policies that are still in the pipeline – and thus are possible to influence. The Commission has just presented the proposals and will present additional package of measures in 2011. The energy strategy is based mainly on given assumptions about very ambitious climate targets, the necessary infrastructure upgrades and the need for security of supply. The strategy estimates that the EU will need to invest 1 000 billion. the euro in this sector until 2020. The future network, the gas infrastructure of the future and the infrastructure of the future for the transport and storage of CO2 will be formed in 2011. This is a work Norway cannot wait to influence until the 27 EU countries have agreed on the final result. It's too late. The government has committed itself to a climate policy that will lead to significant excess power in Norway in the coming years. We are going to produce more renewable energy, phase out a lot of fossil energy and implement significant energy saving measures. The Norwegian surplus of power from a regulated force should be seen in the context of the large amount of unregulated force in Northern Europe – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in the process of doing. Development of Norwegian pumped storage plants can significantly increase the value of Norwegian hydropower if it is used to balance wind power in northern Europe. It is an ambition that must be clearly communicated to the EU. Power exchange requires network investment. The ambitions of state networks for several foreign establishments are positive, but need to be seen in the context of the development of the network in Europe. In particular, it is important that Norway participates in the development of a possible future North Sea supernet. Norway should also contribute to the EU gas strategy. Norwegian gas is an important bridge to the renewable society. Today it is 7 800 km with pipeline in the North Sea. The value of this infrastructure — and how it is further developed — depends on political choices in Norway, on the one hand, and political choices in the EU on the other. The geopolitical dimensions still weigh heavily on EU gas policy and will have an impact on the EU's infrastructure choices. Norway has good cards in hand, but we need to see our role in Europe's gas supply in the context of Russia's North Sea policy, the development of the gas network in Russia and the EU's ambition to open a gas corridor to the south. Norway has ambitions to contribute to the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies. It's an ambition we share with the EU. The ability to store CO2 in the North Sea Basin should be an integral part of the EU CCS strategy. 2011 will be an important year in shaping the European energy policy of the future. Norway has to take part in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e988	Several have expressed the wish that we in Stortinget enter the debates earlier. The board of Vegar Solhjell said in a line exchange with Dagfinn Højbräten around this that how it can happen, I have no answer to now. I think that's an important recognition, because it's a little new work. After all, the size is a decision-making body, and we are used to the fact that the debates are followed up by decisions. If we are to enter early into discussions about new directives and policy-making in Brussels, there will be a long way from the debate and decision. Therefore, we need to think through how to organise that work, if we are now able to reduce the resistance of the European Commission to putting Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein on the mailing list for new proposals. Then there will be a rather strict stream of documents from Brussels into this house, and we need to find a way to organise this. I would think that it would be natural to send it to the relevant committee, which will look at it, and see if there is something we should address in a discussion. The important thing, at my discretion, is that we have that discussion connected to the discussion in our neighbouring countries and the discussion in the EU institutions. What we do with that discussion – whether we travel to the European Parliament to try to influence the debate down there and we are united in a national strategy for it, or whether we have the different party views represented in that influence, will depend on what kind of case it is about. But it will also be important that we, as representatives of big business and political parties, take part in the debate that goes out there in society among those affected, because there we are also quite absent. Taking part in these discussions with an eye and starting point in the debate outside Europe also applies – as someone has been here – when we talk about alternatives to the EEA Agreement. All parties who have said something about this in the Chamber now have said that we should have comprehensive agreements with the European Union. Those who follow the debate in Switzerland – on which the representative Gullvåg was involved – I believe very quickly that the Swiss model is hardly a good example. It is not the case that Switzerland does not comply with the internal market legislation. Switzerland must also adapt its laws to the legislation adopted by the EU in the areas covered by the Switzerland agreements. The method they use is slightly different from that in the EEA Agreement. If we believe that Norwegian business must be able to compete in Europe within the same regulatory framework as its European competitors, there is no agreement with the EU where we can avoid changing the laws in line with EU legislation. We can probably get a free trade agreement that is a purely free trade agreement, but that means that the conditions of competition for Norwegian business are completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e999	The Minister for Foreign Affairs focused on the economy and challenges in Europe in his speech, and there I share his concern. It is difficult to see how southern Europe, perhaps also Ireland, can get out of its challenges when you know how weak fiscal capacity and the black economy they have. Debt levels are becoming very significant, and it is thus also nice to agree with the representative of Gullvåg that the EU's problems are also our problems. What this tells me is that Europe does not need new barriers to growth, trade and activity. Then I must say I am amazed at what SV has marketed as a great winner in the Nordic Council. That's the Tobin tax, a so-called tax on speculation. For there is a tax that will affect Norwegian jobs in exports and imports, and it is particularly affecting countries with small currencies and small domestic markets. You can wonder if SV is not getting tired of getting self-targeted. Maybe they should learn a little bit from Drillo -- that you're shutting down your defenses again. For what is currency speculation? Enterprises that sign export and import agreements want to secure the price they have at the time they make the contract when the goods are to be delivered in the future. But to be sure, they actually have to have a counterparty, and that's the so-called speculator. He's taking the risk for the exporter. If you add a tax to this, it is guaranteed that it is the export company and the import company that has to pay. It's a solid self-measurement of SV, and I think SV could in many ways ask NBIM, because Brazil tried to pay taxes on currency transactions, and we saw in Specter at NRK how NBIM put and discussed how to avoid paying that tax. So maybe you can go to your own environments and learn a little bit about what actually happens when you introduce that kind of tax. This would be a major obstacle to the development of Norwegian jobs and jobs in Europe. Then I'm left with some questions to the Foreign Minister, because he didn't mention Tobin's tax at all, and it's actually also mentioned in Soria Moria. Is it the case that a Tobin tax is being introduced in conjunction with the EU, and why is it not explained to the Stortinget? Does the Council of State see that the option is in favour of the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1012	Energy is important for Norway and it is important for Europe. It makes it particularly interesting for us to discuss that particular issue in relation to Europe. The Foreign Minister touched on this, but I think it was very superficial in relation to the importance of the subject. I therefore hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will, at the next presentation, go further into the substance of this, because we are well aware of what processes are taking place in the EU. What we are more interested in is what the Norwegian positions are regarding these processes and what kind of signal the Norwegian government receives from the EU in this respect. Norway exports a lot of energy, ten times more energy than we consume ourselves, while the EU imports a lot. Therefore, it would be natural to have some kind of mutual, friendly relationship with each other. That customer relationship should be developed. The challenge, however, is how Norway should respond, because in the absence of an energy message, and in the absence of a petroleum message, the signals from Norway are very explosive in what is actually to be done. There is no lack of vision that we should be Europe's battery – that we should supply Europe with more gas. But at the same time, we know that the grips it's going to require at home are not coming. The representative Astrup addressed issues such as: gas supply and cable connections — where individual actors in government agencies do things, but there is no overall strategy around it. If we are to be Europe's battery, it will require a completely different flow of our hydropower than today. Then we have to communicate it to the environmental movement and to the powerhouses, because when large-scale representatives are in dialogue with these people, we get the clear impression that we need to have less power in the hydropower to have more even water flow because of biodiversity. You can't go to Germany and talk about being the power reserve for Germany while traveling around Norway and having less power. There must be a context in which to be credible over time when traveling to foreign partners. Gas is important for the EU. International energy agencies estimated that global gas consumption will increase by 44 pst. by 2035 in a new policy approach, i.e. not business as usual, but in a new approach. It would have been interesting to hear a little more about what kind of signals the foreign minister receives from the EU about the EU's desire to import gas. I guess it's pretty big. But in the Norwegian debate, some people believe that Norway can start to phase down the petroleum industry because the world is not going to use fossil energy. It has to be part of the whole here. So I see that the government is talking about the renewable directive in the EU and saying that because of the high level of renewable energy, we are not going to increase production in Norway, while we are going to be Europe's battery, and then we need to increase production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1029	The centre party is a hot follower of a small tax on financial transactions, so-called Tobin tax. It will not affect business. It will be possible for one to get an overview if one goes into the Bank for International Settlements — the international banking institution in Switzerland, which shows that only a very small part of the foreign exchange transactions that will be affected relate to the payment of goods and services. The position on the right here in the Chamber is quite extreme in Europe, and we see how many people want to impose such a small charge in order to dampen the speculation economy. What I want to say is that on 1 December 2009, the Constitution of the European Union, also called the Treaty of Lisbon, entered into force. After many years of drag fights and rejections in referendums, the EU put the foundation wall in its federal construction works. In most EU countries, there is a majority against federal development. Few policy actors in the EU or at home will stand up to explain what is happening in the EU. It is a strong fear of the people's will and the people's judgment of the Euro-elite project. Sweden had the EU Presidency in the second half of 2009. It was therefore the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs who called for the Brussels Summit in December 2009. Carl Bildt called the heads of state, but not the 27 foreign ministers. There were protests. They had always been with their heads of state. Carl Bildt had clearly replied: Now that the Treaty of Lisbon had entered into force, the relationship between the 27 EU Member States had become domestic policy, and there was no longer a need for foreign ministers to participate. How are we to understand this new situation in Norway? The relationship between Sweden and the other 26 EU countries is domestic policy, while the relationship between Sweden and Norway is foreign policy. How can the relationship between the 27 EU Member States be domestic policies, if the EU has not become a federal state? How are we to understand this new reality? What is the difference between a treaty and a constitution? A constitution is a legal basis for a state formation, while a treaty is a legal document between two or more maritime states. Is the EU just a little federalist today? Do we want to see more federalism in the years to come? I want a clarification from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on these essential conditions for our country, not least in respect of the fact that on two occasions a majority of the people have said no to Norwegian participation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1042	It was almost a bit funny to hear Lundtigen and the Zenterparte argue so strongly for a Tobin fee. The Tobin tax, a tax on foreign exchange transactions internationally, will primarily affect the smallest countries. The larger the domestic market, the more partners you have to deal with without having to pay the Tobin tax, while small countries that almost exclusively live on exports and imports will be hit hard by a Tobin tax. For example, the United States of America will go about completely clear of it. This has been an interesting debate, and we notice that there is a great deal of consensus, perhaps again with the exception of the previous speeches, about EEA policy. What is important in addition, I think, is that a thorough evaluation of the causes of the financial crisis is being carried out in order to keep clear what are the phenomena that we do not need to repeat, in order to avoid getting back into the same situation. It could be interesting if some of the EU countries in crisis chose a different strategy to get out of the crisis — and that is what we see starting to happen. Greece demands full assistance from the EU system, while Ireland is resisting it. For example, if the different hard hit EU countries chose a different strategy, we could. See that a country adopts a strategy to continue a state over-consumption and thus also an increase in debt, and hence interest expenditure. Another country opts for a strategy to increase taxes and taxes in the hope that it will generate increased income to the country, and thus come out of the financial crisis, while a third strategy could be to reduce taxes and taxes and reduce public consumption, thus improving the conditions for value creation and business, more jobs and a more robust economy. It might have been interesting to see which of the three strategies had led the longest, and which had given the best results. It could be very exciting. I conclude by saying that, like the government, we in the Progress Party believe that the EEA Agreement is the very foundation of Norway's European policy. We are therefore with the government to further develop and improve the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1053	Let me first express my satisfaction at the fact that the representative Myhre reiterates what was so thoroughly stated in the previous European debate by the representative, Höglund, namely that the Progress Party is a solid supporter of the EEA Agreement and its development. This is important for Norwegian policy. Then I would like to comment on a question that has been throughout the debate, and which was raised among others. by the representative Svein Roald Hansen and followed up by the representative Solhjell, on how the Stortinget can take more seriously the debates on important EU issues, directives and other issues, which come on the EU agenda and which Norway has to deal with at an earlier stage and in a form appropriate to the role of the Stortinget. What has been said by representatives Solhjell and Svein Roald Hansen is that this is a difficult question. I want to try to help make it a little bit easier. If the wish is to create a debate on these issues at an early stage, not just outside the country's main debate venue, but on the country's main debate venue, in the main hall, it is very easy. The government must present these questions in a form that enables the Storting to deal with them, not for the purpose of a decision, but for a debate and guidance on government work on those issues. We have a very simple form of that in Stortinget, and between Stortinget and the government, and it's a big message. I would recommend that we in the European Committee discuss with the government how this tool can be developed in the light of what is happening in the EU in terms of our ability to influence through committees, etc. there, and what may happen in the extension of the European Parliament's very welcome decision of 7 September, supporting Norway's wish that the Grand Duchy and the parliaments of other EEA and EFTA countries should be able to receive the legislative proposals of the European Commission directly in line with the parliaments of the Member States. I would like to inform you, for my part, that the Christian People's Party would like to address this discussion in the European Committee. I think it is quite possible to find a form that can satisfy the desire that these issues be dealt with in a more active way and at a much earlier time in the Storting than is the case when we get the acts for summary treatment in the European Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1066	This will be a short post on the tap. How are we going to relate to the new reality? That was the short question from the representative of Lundteg. 3 minutes is probably a little too little to answer that. I would also like to see it so that for a Norwegian Foreign Minister to give a detailed explanation of how we should understand the EU impact because Norway has said no to the EU twice, I think it is a somewhat strange premise for the question. What I would like to say very carefully is that when this is reflected in the EU's own description of work, it is because the countries together deal with issues that we traditionally know as domestic policies. The representative of Health made a very good contribution today on health, age, dementia and the need for research. These are common challenges in all European countries, major government financial challenges, and how countries deal with them, there will be a great deal to be seen as a common issue, even if countries have to make their own decisions. Health, research, consumers, law and justice — issues of all these concern countries together. That's why it's called domestic policy. However, foreign ministers continue to meet monthly to address what is the EU's common foreign policy. This is not transnational in that area. Very short: In the case of the Deposits Directive, by which reference was requested, I mentioned it in my statement, and it is still being worked on. The finance minister did so no later than a few days ago. I would also like to highlight this in my meetings in Brussels on Monday. Then I think there were good and interesting articles about energy from several representatives. This may well be a topic for the next presentation, and of course also in the Stortingen dialogue with the Minister of Energy. I seem to see a significant change in the energy policy debate in Europe. It is not my primary area of responsibility, but it also concerns foreign policy, where the combination of security of supply, achieving renewable objectives, having a strategy for transmission systems, etc., raises major new strategic issues. I believe that we in Norway should follow closely with regard to gas. Gas will obviously be, not only from our perspective as a seller, but I also believe analytically, an important energy carrier for Europe for many, many years to come, in a climate perspective, and also in a security of supply directive. But I also think that there is less focus on gas in part of the rhetoric and the papers we see come from some EU countries and from Brussels. Norway has to participate there, and we have the ambition to do so. With regard to the renewables side as well as the strategy we choose to be part of the solution that large European countries choose to put on renewable energy, it is clear that we are going to raise major questions concerning infrastructure and national legislation. Finally, the representative Myhre was dissatisfied with the border resident's certificate that it did not concern larger areas. I share that impatience. My most acute impatience is that the Vardø region is not included, because it is more than three miles from the national border, but considerably less than three miles from the new sea border. That's the immediate theme we're going to deal with. And then I hope that the experience in the north can contribute to the expansion of such zones in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1081	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1097	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1115	Now the proposition about the Statskog purchase has come to Stortinget, and you can wonder why we are going to have an interpellation debate. But I think that proposition does not contain any answers to the key questions that I think the matter is going on. That's why I chose to take the interpellation anyway. Because it's like in the text the president read out, it's the dilemmas that the state has now come up with, I think it needs to get extra focus. I think you're going to jump into the treatment of the proposition. The State imposes entirely different rules on all others in the market than it has now proved to be in the market. I believe that is a very big question mark for the state as a regulatory authority. I believe that the regulation has actually been put to death, and that the price regulations and much of the law should be lifted directly. So it's question number. 2, and in the case of expropriation cases. There, then, people have to give up property against their will for social purposes. We need that once in a while. It's indisputable. Now we have a number of lawsuits in which the state has resorted to a claim of 5 pst. returns. So then the person who disposes of property against his will is going to have a substitute that is well below half the price level that the state has now made visible that forest is believed to be capable of defending. There are interesting issues that I think should be highlighted, and in addition, I believe that there is a chance to take a debate around forests in general – the potential and opportunities that are actually there. My view is clear that, within a lot of agriculture, poverty has been regulated and needs to be given a completely different focus on how to actually exploit the potential of the industry. The real estate market is becoming very central to forest, because forestry is incredibly long-term. It's so long-term that many people don't have the power to think about going into it. It's very long-term, and it's now largely capital management. The industry has been very adaptable to a well-being society in development. Productivity has been developed to which very few other industries can refer. So you also have a high profitability, and you run very rationally. The problem is that there are not many hours left, and you get a partnership. Actually, this is a success story. As has been said in many other contexts, it is actually the very prerequisite for Norway to develop increased welfare. The regulation of the property market is also becoming critical in other ways, as the property market signals faith in the future. And it is clear that the price level established for Borregaard Forests signals a violent belief in the future. I'm very happy about that. I think I'll come back a little bit that there might also be a lot of reasons for that. But why take it away from the rest of District Norway? Why should you take it away from the private that operates in the forest? In the context of the review of the State budget, we have, among other things: asked questions to the Ministry of Agriculture about the development of agricultural debt. Visualising the values also for forests will help considerably in the debt situation. So a little bit of a description of Borregaard, because there's always going to be a discussion around the calculations -- and I'm assuming that the committee is going to get involved with the processing of the proposition, because the calculations here are going to be very central. There is no doubt that Borregaard Forests within forestry are going to be perhaps Norway's most well-driving property. The level of investment has been very high and has seen it also established belief in the future. There is also a high level of efficiency, and it is long before the potential can be exploited. Here the concession requirements, or the bills, behind the government's purchase are going to be very interesting. What you do with all of the other buyers is you set up an account that shows the expected profit on a property every year. You capitalize it to 4 pst. And then you get the value. That's just like that. So the state tells others to use 4 pst. If you count very optimistically on Borregaard Forests, they have a story that they have a profit of about 15 million. kr. If you say that Statskog is so capable of driving that they double that surplus to 30 million. NOK, you still get a real interest rate of about 2 pst. It shows how far away from the usual operations you're dealing with this purchase. So a little bit about expropriation. Then you go in by 5 pst. If you were to do the same math, Borregaard would be worth about 700-800 million. kr i value – at least not higher. It's a great paradox, in my opinion. There are also many other reasons to discuss forest. It's an important district industry. It might be one of the industries that are present in most municipalities. It has a very potential. It is currently in the middle of a lot of the central social debate – that is, on CO2 capture. There the government has strong faith in binding abroad, but not so much faith in domestic bonding – strangely enough. You're very central to a lot of the problem. Then I want to make a little clarification, because it is clear that Borregaard Forest is not subject to concession, so it is okay for the buyer and the seller to agree on a price. That's also the Principality of the Right. We really don't want to have any idea of the prices of properties. I think it's important to clarify that. But the central thing here is that when forestry and agriculture are not there, you actually have to deal with the fact that the state imposes entirely different criteria to look for. In the case of forests in general, we have a lot of investigations in the Ministry of Agriculture focusing on the fact that property structure is a challenge to exploiting the potential of forestry. In several investigations, the structure of property is a problem. There are 125 000 owners of forest properties, many so small that the owners no longer know where they are. That's a bad starting point to know if you're going to do something. There are more than 70 years of age who own forests in Norway than there are under 40 years of age. This is the Ministry of Agriculture's own figures. And it's clear that giving Viagra at home doesn't help much to get up the birth rate. It's a little bit the same with forest property. Sending information to those who have already passed the 70 is not a great help or perhaps a long way up in the 80s. This is where the obligation to live comes in, because there are doubts about the property in the fear that the country will come and seize private values, while the next generation does not see it as possible to settle on the basis of the property. So once again, the regulation of the property market is very central. We now have 40 years of history that you really just lead the industry into problems that you should solve quite quickly. In fact, the forest industry – and its focus is very low – is a complete food chain in Norway. It leads from primary production to export market, and it has a value creation that is in line with fish, i.e. breeding, and it has a profitability that competes well with fish. But for some reason it's not focused on the industry. It is also typical of rural policy and agricultural policy in Norway. You have a tendency to forget what's profitable, and then you focus on what needs support. Norwegian forestry exploits less than half its value creation potential through logging. There are enormous ringing effects in the future if you're willing to go in and look at the possibilities with completely new eyes. So my conclusion is that the Minister of Agriculture should take action. He should remove the regulations from forestry. He should remove the price regulation and realize that it is the first consequence of the state's purchase of Borregaard Forest. Because it becomes almost impossible for public officials to go in and tell private that they are going to sell at half the price of the state itself is willing to city. The next thing to do: the state should stop all expropriation and protection until it has clarified its position on it with expropriation. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Agriculture's answers and a debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1152	Statskog SF's purchases of the companies Borregaard Skoger AS, Børresen AS and Borregaard Vafos AS from Orkla are the largest purchases of productive forest in Norway in recent times. The purchase is an industrially and commercially advantageous investment that strengthens State forest as a forest owner, increases the potential for rational operation, and expands the foundations of the State Forest SF to facilitate hunting, fishing and outdoor activities. The purchase will also allow for the sale of scattered forest parcels from which the enterprise already owns, which will further strengthen the economy of the enterprise and not least allow local forest owners to strengthen the nutrient base of their properties. Such sales could also trigger woodland change areas, which could facilitate forest protection processes on private land. As the representative of Gundersen makes it clear that my account of the purchase of the SF's business assessments is in doubt, among other things. by claiming that returns are scarcely required in the valuation, it is important for me to clarify that Stateskog SF has carried out a purely commercial assessment of the three companies Orkla out for sale. The Orkla stock exchange notification shows that the sale took place after a broad process, with a high level of competition and several attractive bids. Before the government gave its consent to Stateskog’s investment decision – subject to Stortingen’s approval – an assessment of Stateskog SF’s investment plan was obtained from the company Arctic Securities. Arctic Securities stated that the assessments Statskog SF has made are in line with how one could expect other commercial players to value the companies. I Prop. 11 S for 2010-2011, on proposals for capital increase and State loans to the State Forest SF, the process has been further explained, for the assessments made by Arctic Securities, and for State Forest SF’s assessments. The representative Gundersen claims that the purchases of the State Forest SF are at best based on a return claim, or a 2 pst interest rate. Partly because this is to consider business-sensitive information, and partly because the trade is not yet finished, I am asking for understanding that I cannot go into all the details related to valuation. However, I can say that it is the forest value that represents the largest proportion of the total value. The forest resource base on which the valuations are based is based on extensive taxiing work in 2010. This taxing work shows a significantly larger resource base than the seller himself has used in its historical crop strategy. For the review of the forest values of the company, the State Forest SF, in addition to its own resources, has engaged Dr. Kåre Hobbelstad, Nettskog and Geodata. The details of the resource base are only available to the participants in the last round of the sales process, and outsiders may find it difficult to have a qualified opinion on it. This also applies to experts who have commented on the price and who have only had access to the original prospectus from the seller. I also do not share the suggestion by the representative Gundersen that the return requirement is artificially low. The return requirement used is, according to Arctic Securities’ opinion, relevant and appropriate for this type of investment. Without addressing the exact yield requirement, the price is based on a higher yield requirement than the one used for concession treatment. I wonder at the representative Gundersen's presentation of the purchase as an ethical dilemma and his suggestion of discrimination because Statskog SF has bought the companies at market prices. Due to a legislative amendment in 2003, the purchase of the companies would not trigger a concession obligation. Any State or private operator thus remained free to submit bids on the basis of its own assessments of the revenue and assets of the companies. It is therefore not discriminatory to make Stateskog SF enter into a purchasing position on a commercial basis and in competition with other market players. As far as the concession rules are concerned, I consider it appropriate to recall that a total increase in 2003 took the view that the acquisition of shares or the transfer of the property subject to concession would no longer give rise to a concession obligation. The decision of the Storting was based on a proposal from the then minority government, where the Right was involved. The ethical dilemmas related to discrimination that the representative is now calling for a discussion were neither highlighted in the proposition nor in the big debate at the time. It surprises me, therefore, that the Right, as proposed at the time of the change, is now calling for an ethical approach. Statskog SF's purchases are, as I see it, not about ethics, but about the fact that some acquisitions trigger concession obligations and price control, while this does not. The reasons for the amendment in 2003 were that it was not necessary to require a concession in the case of transfers of shares or limited liability companies which own concessional real estate because the company itself must have a concession in the case of the purchase of the property. One suggested that in this context both concession conditions could and should be imposed that give more direct control of land use and ownership that is desirable. An emphasis was also placed on the fact that the concession treatment of transfer of shares and the transfer of companies would require large resources without the social benefits being proportionate to the use of resources. In addition, it was noted that the freedom of concession would include established companies which already owned concessional land. It's called this in Ot.prp. No 79 for 2002-2003: «The repeal of the current provision on the concession by acquisition of shares results in agricultural property owned by limited liability companies effectively being able to change owners without the concession being treated. Withdrawal will also lead to the withdrawal from the scope of the concession law if large shareholdings are traded in large corporations that own agricultural property. The Ministry assumes that some of the properties in question may be of significant size. However, the statistics described above indicate that there are relatively few properties where the determination has a real meaning.» In view of this, I believe that the representative, Gundersen, is looking for clarification, is not ethical dilemmas in the current legislation that becomes visible in the purchase of State Forest SF, but rather that he uses the opportunity to require further deregulation, so that the price control falls away from the acquisition of real estate. I would like to stress that it is a continuous process to ensure that the law is adapted to the challenges of our time. As the representative knows, I am working on a new big business message on the agricultural and food policy that is planned for the Stortinget in spring 2011. Although many and correct steps were taken in the legislative changes in 2009, property policy is also a topic that may be relevant. Key issues in property policy can then be addressed in a broader agricultural policy context. For the selection of interest rates in discretionary cases as a result of expropriation, it is for the courts to arrive at a calculation rate which, in the specific case, will provide the forest owner with full compensation. I record that the Supreme Court in a case relating to forest substitutes from 2008 has assumed that the standard interest rate is 5 pst, and that a different interest rate requires a special assessment of the particular circumstances of the individual property. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have no influence on the decisions of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1181	I think that was a very disappointing answer, because you're not going into reality at all. And it's almost impossible to believe that the Minister of Agriculture can stand here and talk as if you've been dealing with the 4pst requirement and laid down a higher return requirement. I think that is contrary to the view of all the experts in forestry. It is in itself quite easy to take a calculation: the turnover in Borregaard Forest is between 50 and 60 million. kr. If you capitalize on sales of $50 million. kr with 4 pst., you'll hardly get 1 750 million. kr da. To make sure that it is done to believe that all turnover is profit. So I almost don't believe that. I also think that, in terms of business agreements, calculations and everything, there is something that must come through the committee's consideration, that is precisely that. So I'm going to leave it to the committee. But I strongly dispute the Minister of Agriculture's description that this is possible on the basis of commercial criteria, as one imposes on everyone else. In that case, you have to have a huge belief in the future, where large increases in income will be introduced in the future. And we all know that the longer you get, the less they get in a capitalization context. And as far as the crop side is concerned, we know that for a typical forest property in Norway, it takes 20–30 years before you can start taking out the extra potential. It doesn't matter very much in capitalization calculations. So here there has to be a strong belief that prices will be raised, that maybe you're going to make a lot more of outland products. And that's going to be interesting in a context where you've used public access as one of the arguments for the state to buy. Because then, of course, there are limits to what can be done out of the field. So I'm recording that you're not willing to go into that debate. And of course, I'm using the opportunity to focus on what the regulation actually means. I made it clear that we have a huge need on the property structure side; it has been concluded by the Department in a number of investigations. We have a tremendous need for generation change. We have a lot of small properties where you actually don't have any administration at all because it's become so that a small part of people's income potential comes from forest. It's a little sad that the Council of State is not willing to enter into a debate on what this actually means in terms of triggering the potential forest could be too many district municipalities. I sincerely hope that he thinks about it and at least comes back later in the debate with a slightly more nuanced view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1196	I record that the representative of Gundersen quite openly says that I am not going into reality, and describes the calculations that it is not holding. As I mentioned earlier, I cannot go into the details of the valuation, and what elements are included in this. Part of the material is commercially sensitive information which also relates to the customers and subcontractors of Statskog SF, and other parts are Orkla’s property subject to confidentiality agreements until the transaction is completed. But I must be allowed to refer to the assessments made by Arctic Securities, which have been the department's own adviser in this matter. The overall assessment of Arctic Securities shows that State Forest SF has established relevant and acceptable assumptions for future prices, harvests, operating costs and synergies relating to the properties. Furthermore, the return requirement is considered relevant and appropriate for this type of investment. And about the price Arctic Securities states the following: ‘In total, it is our opinion that the price of NOK 1 725 million, under the terms of the contract specified, is fair and in line with the other commercial operators can be expected to value the property at.’ The underlying investment and valuation are the responsibilities of the Board of Directors of Stadskog SF. In view of the thorough work done in advance of the Board's decision, as well as the assessment I have obtained from Arctic Securities, I believe this is a good investment for the state that owns. I record that the representative, Gundersen and others, have doubts about the business assessments made in this case, but I choose to attach greater trust to Statskog SF and Arctic Securities in this case, which have had information that few others have had. I would also like to stress that if something in this case is perceived as a dilemma, it must be the legal situation that arose with the assistance of the Right in 2003, not that the legislation is being followed, as it is today. I assume that the representative of Gundersen does not believe that state-owned businesses should deviate from the assumptions made by the Stortinget for their business. I also believe that there is a broad consensus that state-owned activities should be related to the framework conditions and legislation relevant to their business activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1210	All of them first: I think the interpellant raises some interesting questions, with some conflicts in it. Firstly, there is legislation in force that allows a free to market forests within the organisation of a limited liability company. That is what the interpellant really wants for all forests in Norway. It is then strange that he criticises, we should say, an action where exactly that opportunity is exploited. Then there will be a problem that I think is quite relevant, because the proposition of capital injection to State Forest and borrowing is currently being dealt with in the Storting – it is in the committee. It is clear that the financial assumptions in relation to the return claims, the basis for the purchase, etc., become part of the Committee's proceedings and the examination of this case by the Stortinge. So it's going to be hard to really understand what the interpellant is dealing with, if, among other things, it's going to be. The calculation rate, for the calculation rate is absolutely fundamental to interpellantence, we shall say, the description of a conflict, because it is not safe there. As far as I know, the representative of Gundersen or others in the Stortinges Hall does not have an insight into the calculations that exist around the purchase in its entirety, and that are absolutely essential to assess whether this is correct or wrong, based on an expected return and on a calculation rate that exists. But as I said, we will come back to that, so I really want to refrain from going into it more now, and rather look forward to the discussion that comes when the committee has finished the matter of Statskog's purchase of Borregaard Forest. Nevertheless, some small considerations, since we are in the process of dealing with the Committee, for the price discussion has come in a way. It has been part of an element, and it has not least an impact on the calculation rate. It is interesting then that the Norwegian Forest Geyser Federation, in fact, is based on the legislation in force, and on the basis, for example, of this. a comparison with Sweden, and where the forest is freely traded, clearly points out that if a Swedish relationship is based on the values, and calculates the Borregaard forests, one ends up in a sum of 1.73 billion. kr. I guess that's essentially 100 pst. This is the sum of the purchases here. I'm not going to drag it any longer, but it gives a hint that it's pretty sure. Then it will also be that in connection with this type of purchase – and that such a large property will be traded – some interesting questions arise, which I do not think we should settle in connection with the matter of Statskog. But you can ask yourself the question: was it right that the Right made provision for the extension of the extension of non-concessional forests and properties subject to concession? And then it's not necessarily the solution to the interpellant that's right. It may well be that reason suggests that forest properties of this size and scale, organized under a limited liability company, should again be subject to concessions. That might be a more correct approach, considering that one for private people who go in and buy and buy forest, should also be able to have a reasonable return on the capital with which they go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1221	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Gundersen, for promoting this important matter in an interview. The case concerns the largest Norwegian forest sale since the Danish era and its commercial basis. The sale covers the whole of the product concerned. 1,067 million. of which approx. 750 000 targets are productive. The remainder is less productive, i.e. roads, lakes, rivers, ants, etc., where forest production is minimal or near zero. The price was staggering 1,725 billion. kr, which is far above the tariffs, which ranged between 750 million. kr and 1,2 br. kr. If this had been sold to private at the same distance between tariff and sales total, probably the bureaucracy and the majority of politicians had said no to concession. They would have claimed that the yield of the forest would not have been in proportion to the sum of sales, and this is the very essence of the matter. The forest property itself is distributed between Hedmark, Telemark, the Agder counties and Buskerud. About 80 pst. of which it is located in the forest district of Hedmark. It is further divided into 19 municipalities and a total of 150 separate units. Let it also be said that the forest has been operated in a highly skilled manner and has great opportunities for the field as well as just the timber value. There are great values in hunting and experiences. There are many coyotes and forest houses, there are lakes and rivers etc., with their income possibilities. These are resources that exist, and can be exploited, with a high income potential. This is of course taken into account in the fare. Since the sales plans became known in February this year, many have shown interest in the property – some for the whole, others for parts of it. It has also been speculated whether foreign companies – perhaps especially Swedish – would buy it. Some skeptics claimed that then the forest would disappear. How this can be done, I don't know. But, as I said, someone thought like that. There were many meetings where potential buyer groups were formed, e.g. where several municipalities joined together. The fact that some private operators also speculated on purchases was quite natural. Of the great Swedish who could be interested in such a purchase, Bergvik Skog, with Stora Enso, as well as Korsnäs and others. On the Norwegian side, private forest companies were interested, but also several other individual forest owners and other traders. For the Progress Party, it is important that private Norwegian operators be given equal advantage so that any gain on subsequent resales should not be subject to a profit tax. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance said no to that. In a written question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the undersigned asked about the possible sale of parts of Statskog — and at what price. State forest has hundreds of forest parcels of less than 5000 targets, totaling about 500. 425,000 goals, maybe more, that I think State Forest should sell. These are for Statskog rationelle, and some of them are also hard driven. According to professionals, Statskog has pursued a higher yield policy than usual, private forest owners. That is, the forest that State Forest and hopefully sells in the near future is so-called forest for the future, which needs a lot of care. Another moment many fears about the purchase of Borregaard Forest by Statskog are that large parts of it are now being saved. In an interview in the newspaper Hamar Arbeiderblad of 26 October this year, Finance Minister Sigbjørn Johnsen also says: ‘The purchase has been made on a commercial basis in competition with several tenderers. State advisers believe that this is the right price.’ For my part, I don't think it sounds right to pay between 525 and 975 million. kr more than fare to buy forest. Privates have to think about the long-term economy, and then it can't be so easy for Statskog to be able to go as far as possible to eliminate any competition, and then ask the Biggest – i.e. the red-green majority – about the money. Then the calculation rate is not going to be right. It has to be that private ASs and publicly owned forest properties are priced in the same way, with an equal calculation rate. If not, private forest will have a lower value than others. I can't believe it's desirable. That's why this is the case, i.e. the sale, in principle very important. Therefore, Stortinget must give private the same opportunity to get a proper price when someone wants to sell forest. This must of course also apply when the state expropriates property from private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1243	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing a very important and fundamental theme. I hear the Council's response. Unfortunately, the Council of State almost does not go into it at all and explains why the country buys it. What is the government's principal basis for using $1.7 billion? kr through a state-owned company to state a large forest property? I hear the council say one of the reasons is that it's going to strengthen Statskog as a forest owner. I thought the Center Party stood for this that private ownership of forest is preferable to public. I thought the Center Party was in favour of a policy based on trust in forest owners, that they can manage their properties for their own benefit and their descendants on the basis of the principle of freedom under responsibility, and that you don't have to walk the path of state ownership in order for these areas to be managed in the best possible way. It does not affect the State Council at all in the answer to why State Forest should enter as owner. But we notice that the state that owns the forest has more confidence than private. It's not possible to add anything else to that answer, from the government's point of view. Furthermore, the Council of State says that this purchase should also strengthen local forest owners. Yes, how? We don't hear about that. It's called makeshift. Yes, that's going to be a part of making changes in e.g. Protectives are positive, but here we are talking about a range that goes far beyond makeshifts in coniferous forest reserves and other conservation measures. Is it true, then, that State forest should sell forests to strengthen the nutrient base of private landowners who have adjacent properties? What, then, is the price to be paid by the State? Then it is probably difficult to imagine that the state sells forest to adjacent private forest owners in the form of a share company, because it is the concession obligation on forest that is sold to private landowners, when it is not a share company. What valuation should State Forest then take into account? It'll be interesting to see. But this does not affect the Council of State at all. It is also an underlying contradiction that the reason for the purchase is that, as a forest owner on the one hand, State forest should be strengthened, while it is also justified that it should strengthen local forest owners. This is not related to my view. We also hear that a reason for the purchase is that it should strengthen the organisation of the public. What does that mean? What are the strengthened rights of the public that the State owns in relation to its private ownership? A large part of this forest is located in Buskerud. It's Børresen Forest. I know the property well, and it is an example of how a private owned forest facilitates the public with hunting, fishing, outdoors, while taking care of the commercial interests of the forest. In addition, it has an additional challenge in terms of having a water source that supplies nearly 140,000 inhabitants of Lower Buskerud with drinking water. However, with those restrictions, the private owner has been able to balance all these considerations in a primacy. And what can the state do better about this? We don't hear about that. The Council of State claims, at least on the basis of what I say in the answer, that this purchase will have no effect on the valuation of forest elsewhere, and adds – we also hear the representative of Aasland saying the same thing – a change in the concession obligation, the waiver of the concession obligation for a limited liability company. We have a majority government. If you had experienced that legislative change in 2003 as a political problem in principle, you would have changed it. But we haven't seen anything about that. It's an important interpellation, an important question. I look forward to hearing more closely from the Committee's consideration of the reasons for this purchase, and what the State actually puts in the benefits that can be left over in relation to private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1266	I want to thank you for the interpellation, because it gives us the opportunity to get a real discussion of principle. But first, I want to adhere fully to the argument of the Council of State Breck. It's exemplary, and it's based on the actual legal situation that we have in Norway today. It seems that the right party is not aware that when the company Borregaard Forest is to be sold, it is sold at a free price. One can call it a commercial price, or one can call it other prices. Free price is free price. That means that the one who pays the most is awarded the award. It is surprising that a central party representative must stand here and tell representatives from the Right that that is what is the content of free price, the content of free capitalism. I don't understand why you should resist what's going on. That's the system. Luckily, we don't have that system of sales between personal owners, because then we have the concession system and price adjustments that aim to ensure that you have a long-term management and a income from it, where labour and capital spending are relative to the yield from the forest. It is a very good system that we have to manage further and develop. When an expropriation is to have a higher price than a concession, it is, of course, quite natural, because in that case you are going to have an intervention in private property rights to which there must be special relations in order to defend. Then you also have to pay a completely different price than a concession price. Forestry is the use of forests. It's long-term. It's quickly a hundred years. If one facilitates a system of free pricing in a situation where forest yields are limited, and there are more and more people who want to buy forest because there are more people, and there are more and more people who see that real estate is security in our time, the free pricing system will mean that you get a price formation that stands completely independent of what is the return of work and capital spending by creating new forests in forestry. If the representative of Gundersen and the representative of Werp had been forest users and not representatives of forest owners, they would have agreed on what I am now saying. But when you look at the forest as something that you should own, where you are going to get a return on ownership, a seafarer falls into the position that one should have free pricing. It is fundamentally contrary to our entire ownership tradition in forestry, and it is important to get there. When it's said that there's a lot of 70-year-olds sitting and owning, that's right. Among other things, it is related to: together with the fact that there is a miserable economy in creating new forests and cutting the forest. There have never been fewer people working in Norwegian forests than they are now. The reason is that they get too low a return from their work compared to what else they get. We have to get the income. That means, among other things: convert the wood processing industry so that we can get new products that provide a higher ability to pay for the forest. That's the entrance of the Center Party. So we're going to make a much higher payment for being a good forester, for the effort you're making in the forest. The representative, Mr. Werp, wondered why the Central Party could defend the state's purchase of this. Let me make it very clear: the centre party is in the choice between private and public ownership ready for private ownership. In the choice between Norwegian ownership and foreign ownership, we are clear for Norwegian ownership. The situation one stood up in was so that one here would ensure the best result, and Statskog found in his opinion that they would acquire it. That was a good result. It has also been said that State forest is now willing to sell away other free-standing forests to marine operators. This would mean that one would have to sell within the concession tariff. It's going to be a lower price than the price per dean that one here bought from Borregaard, because it was a different system. It is important to stick to the concession assessment of forestry prices, and therefore we need to regulate the system differently in the case of share-owned forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1287	The basis for the activities of Stadskog is the national forest and outlying property. These developments shall take place in a sustainable manner and meet the environmental, ethical and social expectations of society for its activities. In the short and long term, business operations shall provide the necessary returns and contribute to the financing of the social responsibility of Statskog. State forest shall be an active development actor based on the ground of the Community. National forests have the following main objectives: to contribute to meeting national objectives for the use and protection of forest and land use, to stimulate and facilitate public access to hunting, fishing and other outdoor activities, to increase their own and others' value creation in relation to the properties, and to create and secure profitable jobs through the rational and commercial exploitation of competences, capital and land. Many of these reasons have been taken care of by the purchase of the Borregaard forests, as far as I can see. But I still ask myself questions about the price. A little over $1.7 billion. NOK 1.1 million covers forest is a high price when we look at the sum that is estimated for these three companies. According to today's Economy, the three forest companies Statskog has a book value of 300 million. kr in Orkla's accounts. This might put this sale in a slightly strange light. However, if a majority of the Storting ceases to approve the sale, it will be important at least to make the best use of the land. In this context, consideration of biodiversity is important. We're talking about large areas, a total of 1.1 million dekars. It's an area equal to about half of the Westfold state. There have been evidence of high environmental values in these forests, and I look forward to Statskog now searing the new property for any protective value and protecting it. Today, Norway has protected only 1.8 pst. of the productive forest, while we know that from a professional point of view, the recommendation is to protect a minimum of 4.6 pst. in the short term. As large properties as the state has now secured must contribute significantly to this percentage increase. In addition to protecting the value of protection, the Christian People's Party looks forward to the State following up the Storting decision that the properties of State Forest are to be offered as a make change, i.e. private owners of land who are protected by forest are offered other forests instead of money. With this purchase, the state has secured large areas of forest, which can be protected both directly and indirectly. The last point I and the Christian People's Party want to address in this debate is: in the case of the rainforests, the state spends billions protecting forests to save the climate, and we know that the protection of Norwegian forests is also a good climate action. Purchases and protection will therefore not only be able to store a lot of bio diversity, but will also help to keep large amounts of CO2 away from the atmosphere. In both respects, forest protection is a good social economy, as well as protection through use providing great opportunities for outdoor life, hunting and fishing for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1307	I see it almost as the position's speakers believe that the Right does not agree with the rules of state activity and the legislation applicable to these kinds of transactions. Gunnar Gundersen's interpellation doesn't go into it at all. It also does not mean that he has anything against the free formation of prices – on the contrary. His interpellation concerns the ethics of this and what can happen later, because one has a price level that will have a significant impact on what is happening elsewhere in forestry, through expropriations, concessional treatments, price regulation, etc. Therefore, this discussion of ethics naturally leads to an assessment of the price, but not whether there should be free pricing or not. It's a short cut. When the Council of State says that he has no qualified opinion of the price, I am surprised. That is correct, for he refers, in terms of price, only to the Board's proposal, to the assessment by the Ministry's adviser. If you read the matter that is now in Stortinget about the department's comments, it does not affect any of these at all. The proposal of the Management Board and the opinion of the Advisor remain on their own. Nothing is seen in the future at all as to the significance of this. It's a strange handling. That's why it's a shame that the Council of State doesn't go much closer to what the interpellation is about, that's what's going to happen in the future. But now I heard one sentence, namely that this was to be affected in the agricultural notification. Also mentioned were the words rarely heard from the Council of State of Breck: further deregulations. Of course, we welcome that if this interpellation can contribute to it. Let me also comment on what the head of the nutrition committee says here. He almost says, on the one hand, that this matter is in the committee, I don't want to discuss it, and fortunately I don't have any insight into the calculations that have been made, because they're secret, in a completely different place, so I don't have to take any particular position on it. On the other hand, he absolutely wants to highlight the comments made during the hearing today from those who say that this is a good price, which has been calculated on the basis of Swedish models. There is no doubt that we are now moving into an international assessment of forest property, which will also have an impact on private owners and their relationship with the state in terms of regulation. Then I must finally be allowed to say to Lundtägen the same thing as I said in the introduction: we do not want to change anything on the existing legislation. Of course, we want further deregulation. That is the ethical dilemma of Gunnar Gundersen, and what he looks forward to. I want to thank Lundtegen for celebrating the free capitalism – it might be to go a little further than the Right really would go. But Lundtigen really only pays homage to free capitalism when big capitalists in Norway and the state make transactions. He does not like free capitalism, the free formation of prices and greater freedom from regulation when it happens between private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1319	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic for a part of the business life in Norway. In the spring and summer of 2010, Orkla decided to outsource its forest properties for sale. In this context, the Progress Party called for a tax haven for the personal buyers of forest property and to assess changes to the tax regime so that forest property will not be subject to a profit tax in the future. The tax regime for forest property was severely tightened in the context of the tax reform 2004-2006, because the possibility of operating forestry as a purely capital management was curtailed. The profit from the realisation of forest property owned by individual enterprises is subsequently taxed on the new business model as revenue at peak tax rates, if the return on business exceeds a protection rate equivalent to a normal return determined by the ministry. The Minister of Finance rejected this and would not do anything about it. The party of progress is critical of the fact that it must be a state task to own forests, bogs and lizards. The Progress Party is of the opinion that forests on the hands of private operators provide better forest management over time. It was a little fun to be present in Reykjavik under the Nordic Council 14 days ago. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg then stood on the pulpit – after questions from representatives of other countries – and stated that he has great faith that the market is self-governing. I can say it again: he has great faith that the market rules itself. There might be someone here in the hall who should listen to it, as opposed to what they say. Then he also says, "That's why we have to control the market forces. And then he says, it's not like in Norway that the state should own a country. But what are you doing? Here, of course, the country goes out and buys more land. So it's clearly a long way between life and learning for the Prime Minister. In international contexts, the Prime Minister agrees with the policy of the Advancement Party, but where was the Prime Minister when the State Council agreed to buy Orkla's forests? Was he present, or was he present only in Reykjavik? Maybe the Workers' Party should start with a new slogan, when you see how they're angled in the future, and a new slogan can be: Do as we say, not as we do. That might be good for Stoltenberg. You get the impression that the state has driven up the price of forest property. The Progress Party is surprised and disappointed that taxpayers' money is being used in this way, and we are asking ourselves how this investment can ever be profitable. The current cash flow from the properties cannot defend such an investment. The Progress Party is also in favour of the arrondering sale of forest properties owned by Statskog today. That's what you've been saying to do, and we think it's very positive that you're doing. But if we are to do as the Prime Minister of the Nordic Council said, that market forces are to be controlled in a free market, then we have one thing to do: we need to eliminate distortions of competition resulting from concession law, and we also need to change the tax regime for forest property, which was severely tightened by the 2004-2006 tax reform. This tax reform was adopted against the votes of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1340	The next speaker is Laila Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1343	Dear child has many names, President. It's Gustavsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1348	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1351	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1356	But dearly, it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1359	First of all, the ideological settlement with the Right and the Advance Party: here they sit and say that we don't want to let market forces rule – and that's actually what happens: state forest gets the opportunity to buy on a commercial basis and wins a bid. That is what is called market forces. So that debate, and that angle of incidence, I think it's going to be very funny. When you have a lot of things to say about the price, I wonder what external environments the opposition here refers to, leans to, when they say that this was not a commercial purchase. I want an answer to that. I want to say it so strongly that I think the forest is worth every penny, and I say that because ensuring access to nature is important. I am myself an avid user of nature – for outdoors, hunting, fishing. I am very pleased that good red-green policy now makes State Forest buy large forest areas from Orkla, that it also affects large areas in Buskerud – Børresen forest – in areas like Lier, Upper Eiker, Lower Eiker, Modum and Hurum, and that the forest now comes again on public hands. So the brush forest is 120,000, and we're talking about 20,000 targets in Hurum. The fact that State Forest, on a commercial basis, has succeeded in purchasing these properties will provide good opportunities for hunting, outdoor life and access to areas for the public that are strengthened in Buskerud. It is very good for people in Buskerud in general, but it is especially good for those living in the lower part of our county, in a region that is under pressure – it is strong housing and the most populous part in Buskerud. It ensures the public interest in the areas under pressure, and therefore a purchase is very important here. The shimmering water is also within that area. 130 000 households get their water from the Glittering Water, and it is important to secure the areas in this context as well. When the matter comes to Stortinget, there is no bomb here in this room that the red-green representatives will vote in favour. And that happens because the purchase is worth every penny, because the supply of land to outdoor life can actually be combined with income for the Norwegian state, which we can once again use in the community in Norway. So here's a Kinder Egg, a win-win situation, to which we're positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1372	However, the President must remember that we are now dealing with an interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1375	The centre party is positive to the acquisition by Statskog SF of the three companies, which together own 1,1 million. cover forest. We believe that the purchase is in line with the leadership of Stadskog SF in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007. It states that State forests are to operate on a business-economic basis, but other objectives have also been set, forest and land management objectives and to ensure public needs for hunting, fishing and leisure activities. I believe that the Council of State has well explained the economic assessments that have been made and that the board has made a purchase decision after a broad and thorough process. The good purchases are made precisely when the buyer sees others and better opportunities than the seller does. Market price is about finding the right price in the market. It's not necessarily about a high or low price. In addition, this ensures national ownership, which is important for the Centre Party. The possibility of long-termity in resource management is a central consideration. Another reason for the Centre Party is also the possibility to carry out the sale of State Forest’s existing land, so that we can strengthen local ownership and obtain more rational operation, both of State Forest’s properties and of private forest properties. We do not share the interpellant's wish to use this case for further deregulation, so that price control falls away by acquiring real estate. The essence of this matter is to ensure national ownership of our natural resources, and it is a demanding exercise to set the price of a resource that is eternal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1395	This case is actually very difficult, because it's being dealt with in the committee, as many people have pointed out here. But we've had an open hearing today, and I don't find it unnatural to point out what was said in the open hearing. There's actually going to be something quite different than referring to the internal discussion in the committee. Right gave freeway to the pricing of just the kind of forest property that is mentioned here today, and it should warm a social democratic heart that Right led this change. Otherwise, this sale and the purchase would be much harder to carry out. Now it is not entirely unknown that the right side will sell the resources from Norway. It started with oil and gas, and I will also show you the water power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1405	Thank you for the debate. It's shown some very clear dividing lines, and we'll probably get back to that. I have to say that I am amazed that you have not registered that it is the vast majority of the environments that are skeptical about pricing. I think it is even more surprising that many of the red-green representatives have not registered the starting point for the interpellation. It is that I believe in principle that the price should not be a political question. You don't have to regulate, and you have to respect the agreements made between the buyer and the seller. The fact that limited liability companies can be traded in Norway without a concession is no doubt. As far as I know, no one was against the time it was done like that, and neither is any of the red-green ones who have suggested that it should be different. The principle here is discrimination. I think Pollestad said it was quite right – that it is a demanding exercise to set a price for something that is eternal. But that's what you tell the bureaucracy to have an opinion about when it comes to private matters. But then the state will suddenly rise above it. I think that's a paradox, and I'm still going to claim that, even if you try to say that it's going against what we basically stand for. That's where we stand in principle. The private agreements shall be respected. Price is not a political question. Then to Lundtegen. I don't know if he was in the hall during the whole debate. If he was, he has a phenomenal ability to close his ears for what is being said. First of all, he talked about that, of course, you should get a higher price in the case of expropriation. That's the exact opposite that happens. As the Minister of Agriculture also referred to, you have actually entered with 5 pst. by the State to lower the price. At least Lundtigen will be included, especially if he is going to have a debate about who is a forest owner and a forestry farmer. There I think I'll go him a high time. But we do not have to take that debate out of the pulpit. I want to focus on the principle, and that is in fact the dilemma that the state is facing from the fact that a purchase has now been made on Swedish terms, as the Association of Forests has clearly said in today's hearing. That's pretty interesting, because it's clear that there's free pricing in the private sector as well. Then I have no doubt that you can certainly defend the purchase. What I'm looking for is to get conditions in Norway as well that make private people have the same conditions. What's interesting about Sweden is that they achieve what we also want to achieve: they get a structuralization, it's local that mostly buys, and it's out of town that sells. That shows the statistics from Sweden. You might also be able to follow the example of the rest of the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1422	Thank you for the debate. I fully agree with Gundersen in one thing – that it shows that there are clear dividing lines in the discussion about the framework conditions for forest properties and how we should deal with the sale and purchase of these. I want to start with a point that the fleet went up, and which is quite special, I think. He says that the Council of State does not have a qualified assessment of the price. I just want to show that this is probably going to be the biggest forest thing, the biggest forest purchase, in this century -- at least so far, I might not anticipate the rest of the century. It is clear that the Council of State has been extremely concerned with competitive conditions, legislation, how we should finance and how to act to ensure that this process is properly and not least commercial. Governments have a very clear assumption about the price, and the price has been confirmed by independent advisors is correct and in line with what the market pays. This is particularly the case when questions are put to the Right, with the assumption that you want to look at the concession law, because here the state's own company, Statskog, which according to the Storting decision is to operate commercially, has assessed it on a commercial basis – one would think it was in line with all the considerations Right agree with – and then bought the forest at the price of the market. It's particularly special that there's going to be a discussion, I think. So to the question of the codes we use. I think the representative of Lundtigen is quite precise in his analysis. Here, Statskog SF, which will operate commercially, has been based on the legislation and bought the forest at a price that contributes to the further development of the company. So it is that the Right itself has been responsible for this two-track cycle in relation to the legislation. Of course, we also deal with the legislation regarding the concession treatment of other types of forest sales. Finally, I would like to stress that an important premise in my work on this matter has been that we should also make a roundabout sale of other properties owned by Statskog. It is important in this respect to stress that this will of course happen in the future. It will take place in a market and under the legislation available for the purchase and sale of forest. This is a historical forest purchase, it's a historical case, and we come back to the case when we're going to deal with the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1439	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1455	As mentioned in the question, then Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim delivered St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003, on animal husbandry and welfare. It is a big message we in the Left are very proud of, and a big message that has meant something in Norwegian agriculture and in Norwegian animal husbandry in general. This has led to an increased focus on animal welfare in very many areas, and has led to many good proposals for increasing animal welfare in their agriculture. So there's a message that worked, and it was an important message. It has led to increased consciousness, which makes me sure you can find clues in most areas of animal husbandry on things that should have been done better, but we see that evolution is positive. An agreement was also reached in connection with the notification of animal welfare — an agreement between an overall industry and the Minister of Agriculture — which had ten years to make fundamental changes in order to ensure animal husbandry, especially in an industry which has difficulties in satisfying this. I'll come back to it. This agreement meant that over a period of 10 years, it would be necessary to see whether it would be possible through breeding to produce animals that functioned better in the type of animal husbandry that the fur industry was. It was also about developing new forms of farming where cages gave animals more access to the natural needs they had. For the last three years, we have seen almost once a year the detection of fur animal husbandry. There have been reports from both the Food Safety Authority, reports from animal protection organisations and also concerns from the veterinary industry. The reason why this kind of animal husbandry is special is -- I think maybe I'll symbolize it with the following: I'm a cat person and I live with two cats. They have been held by people for 8 000 to 10,000 years, at least. I think the oldest mummification found in a cat is 16,000 years old. So long have humans and cats lived together. But it's obvious that the two animals I live with are two small predators who need to satisfy their needs for hunting and excitement in life, in order to satisfy themselves like predators. So seas after 10,000 years, predatory animals are present in cats -- everyone who has lived near such animals knows that. Fur animals that we currently have in breeding live in very small cages. Mink lives two pieces in a cage of 0.25 m2. Rev lives alone at 0.8 m2. These are animals that we've had as domestic animals for a very short time. These are animals that logically have a fear of humans. They live by playing, hunting, having a great need for exercise, are used to being able to hide, escape, have normal social contact and distance from other animals. Mink is e.g. an animal adapted to a life near water. They have water repellent fur, they have swimskin between their toes. They look just as well under water as over water, and they've always lived near water. Trials also show that the seam if the mink has been starved, selects less water in front of food – this is how important instinct is. The carrot is a family group that has always lived in hi, and has lived in groups, in family groups, where you raise puppies together. All of us who go a lot on the mountain know that the reef is an animal that is used to having a huge territory, and that is used to digging times with lots of holes. There is a great difference between an agriculture based on these animals and an agriculture based on cows, sheep, goats and hens, which we have had as animal husbandry for thousands of years, and which works well with humans, and where ways have been developed to drive that enable these animals to live out their normal instincts as well, in normal animal husbandry with humans. We also see major behavioural disturbances in very many of the animals that have been observed. It's puppy-drap, i.e., renunciators who bite damage and kill their own puppies. It's a completely unresolved problem within the group of silver reefs. Pelsbiting, biting one's own body, is described by the Scientific Committee of the European Union as a major problem of stress and dissatisfaction in these animals. We get stereotyped behavior, pointless action patterns that are constantly repeated. It is also referred to as a problem by the EU Scientific Committee. You're experiencing apathy, that's unnatural inaction, which can also be a behavioral disorder. There have been attempts to do something in the breeding area, but we see that natural fear of humans is yet taking place. The University of Cambridge, which went in and made a major report on the breeding strategy of Norway's Pet Species, states that the test methods used are neither standardised, officially approved nor allow them to assess at all the trials carried out on breeding. The Cambridge report concludes that setting up a breeding programme will take many years to achieve results. We have a lot of statements in this field. I want to refer some of them. The Norwegian veterinary association has stated that on the basis of the things they see in their everyday lives, they believe that the time is now ripe to assess the closure of fur farming in Norway. We see that the EU Veterinary Committee immediately concludes that the objectives of cages and the things that are prepared for animals do not support the basic needs of these animals. Eidsivating the law of the law also formulated in a judgment: ‘However, the Court agrees that if only an ethical consideration were given to the assessment of fur production, such activities would be difficult to accept.’ That's what Norwegian courts say. The Animal Ethics Council says: ‘If the animal's well-being is crucial, the ethics committee’s view is that the current forms of operation cannot be defended. In the light of these considerations, they should therefore be discontinued.’;» We now see in a number of countries that major changes are taking place. Sweden has introduced rules that effectively lead to the closure of parts of the rearing. Denmark does the same thing. England, Northern Ireland and Austria have imposed a total ban. The Netherlands has introduced partial bans and proposed a total ban. Switzerland has closed fur-farmed by means of stricter welfare requirements. The same is happening in Italy. This is a wave across Europe. Almost everything produced by fur in Norway is exported — at least approximately. 80 pst. In order to create the markets needed, this is exported to the East, where Norway is running an active marketing campaign to create a market for this product. It's not like Norwegian ladies are standing and yelling in the street to get more fur, but we're actually spending a lot of money building a market in the East to export the goods we produce here. Finally, I think it is important to point out that we signed an agreement on 2012. Now we see that the targets we set then, we haven't achieved. Then it's fair to the industry to say that 2012 is the bomb we put. Then we should spend the money we spend today on subsidising the industry and marketing to help the industry convert to other types of business. The left is not sure that we should introduce a ban, but we believe that we should sit down when we make rules for the operation of the nutrition, and take into account the needs of the animals, such as: have been doing in Sweden, where reefs are said to need soil, and mink needs water. That is their basic need – in respect of animals. This is something other than cow, sheep and pig. These are actually animals that we now have cultivating, and we can't do it. Now we should put a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1507	First, I would like to thank the representative of the Skei Grande for the interpellation. In the last few weeks, we have once again seen images in the media of unacceptable handling of damaged and sick fur animals from several Norwegian farms. These pictures of suffering animals make a strong impression, and I understand the commitment that media storage has triggered. We can't do that in Norwegian fur farming. I have therefore given the industry a clear signal that it needs to be cleaned up, and that it must be done quickly. The industry now proposes, at my invitation, that the new certification scheme in the industry be made compulsory for all who wish to sell leather through Oslo Skinna auctions. Several other measures are being taken to improve self-control and self-justice in the industry. I have expressed in a letter to the Pet Battle this week that the measures the industry is now taking are an important step in the right direction. At the same time, I have expressed impatience in the actual implementation of the measures, and that we must quickly see that this is reflected in clear improvements. I have signaled a expectation to the Pet Battle that the mandatory certification scheme, together with the associated controls and sanctioning options, must be fully operational in all fur farms during the next year. The attitudes of individual breeders and the self-justice of the industry are most important for improving the daily operation of Norwegian fur farms. Those who do not take care of animals properly must leave the industry. Food surveillance will continue to pay great attention to the feeding of fur animals. They will make far more use of unannounced inspections. I have also asked the Food Safety Authority to take stronger measures against users who do not properly care for sick animals or have unacceptable operations in other areas. These instruments are in the new Animal Welfare Act and may mean that some breeders no longer have the opportunity to operate. The monitoring of animal welfare is a priority task for the Food Authority, and the oversight of fur animals will continue to be a priority. Even though the images we've seen lately hurt to look at and show relationships that cannot be defended, it's a fact that some damage and disease is probable in all animal husbandry. No matter what action the industry and the authorities take, Norwegian animals will be present with diseases and injuries. It also applies in private animal husbandry. Since disease and damage cannot be avoided, we must be prepared that it will also be found in the future and show pictures of sick and injured animals in Norwegian fur farms. In this context, it is essential that the animal owner or the person accompanying the animals have the right attitude, adequate competence and good practices to ensure good animal welfare and to ensure that damaged and sick animals are detected early and rapidly given the necessary treatment. This will often mean killing if other treatments cannot be carried out without excessive discomfort and discomfort to the animal. In the images we've seen lately, it's obvious that in several of the cases, the routines have failed and animals have not been handled in an acceptable way. In 2003, the Ministry of Agriculture presented a communication to the European Parliament on animal husbandry and animal welfare. The notification addressed all animal husbandry in Norway from an animal welfare point of view. The ratios around the fur holding were also thoroughly reviewed. The Communication pointed out the need for a number of measures to improve animal welfare for both reefs and minks. The measures included keeping the animals, and especially reefs, in operational systems that increased movement and development of normal behaviour. The surrounding environment of the animals had to be substantially enriched so that the animals were stimulated for exploration and activity. Animals had to be given the opportunity to search for concealment throughout the year and have the possibility of desired social contact with other animals. Breeding measures and care should be aimed at promoting trusting animals. Situations which represented a heavy load on animals and which were not completely necessary for the operation, e.g. live animal exhibitions were to be prohibited. The Communication focused on the need to improve the welfare of fur animals in future fur animal husbandry compared to the operational forms of the date. If significant breeding improvements were not achieved with regard to the mental health status of the animals during a 10-year period, it should be considered that the level of fur animals should be phased out, it was said. In the past since the big bang, much has been done to improve the welfare of fur animals, and this work continues. The 1998 regulation on the keeping of fur animals had a transitional period until 1 January 2009 and this regulation has now been implemented. This code has made improvements, including: as regards the possibility for the animals to hide and to have access to objects that stimulate natural behaviour. With effect from 1 January 2009, a ban on live animal exhibitions was also introduced. The fur coat also cooperates with its Finnish sister organisation on breeding control. Lightning and behaviour are one of several characteristics that are included in the calculation of the breeding index of the animals. There is a lot of evidence, however, that we haven't come as far as we could wish, when it comes to producing calm, trusting fur animals. In the ongoing debate on fur farming, there are several different issues that are widely discussed at the same time. First of all, there's an ethical and principleal problem whether it's right to keep animals in captivity to produce fur. Secondly, there is a question of whether current legislation on the keeping of fur animals takes care of the animals in a good enough way. Finally, over the last few weeks, we have media headlines that show that the routines for continuous care of fur animals are obviously not good enough in many Norwegian farms. I initially commented on the tightening measures relating to the operation in Norwegian fur farms. I'm also going to try to clarify the other two issues a little bit more individually. I appreciate that many have contributed to highlighting animal welfare in the production of fur animals. Positive exposure to animal welfare is good. The animal protection organisations that have been active in the prevention of poor welfare of fur animals aim to obtain a ban on the keeping of fur animals in Norway. Some organisations have a basic belief that animals should not be held in captivity to satisfy human wishes and needs, whether they are the production of fur, food or knowledge. Such views are contrary to the basic position of Norwegian animal welfare legislation. The new animal welfare law recently dealt with by the Stortinge is based on the widespread moral outlook in Norway today that animals should be kept and bred for human purposes. The most important thing is how the animals are kept and treated while they are alive, that the killing is done with care, and that the purpose of the activity in question can be defended as sufficiently important. Based on the Storting's treatment of the Animal Welfare Act, I assume that these principles have broad support in this room. I assume that it is not appropriate to ban the keeping of fur animals on the grounds that the product we get out of production is fur. The next question is whether the legislation we have for fur animals is good enough. Any animal life, whether in captivity or wild condition, poses a risk to physical and mental stress. The objective must be to ensure that animal welfare legislation takes up up-to-date knowledge of matters of importance for animal welfare and that a good knowledge-based balance is made between the needs of the animals on the one hand and what is practicable and operational on the other. Animals shall not, as laid down by the Animal Welfare Act, be subjected to unnecessary stresses and loads. Today’s legislation and mode of operation for fur animals represent some animal welfare forces, but also several clear challenges. The Food Authority, on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, has carried out consultations on proposals for new legislation on the keeping of fur animals. I expect to have the Food Safety Authority's updated proposal after the hearing within a few weeks. The new legislation will impose stricter requirements in order to achieve satisfactory animal welfare in line with new animal welfare laws. The proposal for new legislation which has been consulted is based mainly on a report from the Scientific Committee on Food Safety of June 2008. Breeding measures are also dealt with in the new draft regulation. The legislative proposal has an overall approach. It shall facilitate the significant improvement of animal welfare for fur animals through requirements both for the breeding, keeping and killing of the animals. The answer to the interpellant Skei Grande's question is therefore that I am following the industry closely and expect the rapid implementation of comprehensive measures in the industry to improve the daily operating routines. I will also go thoroughly through the whole of the animal welfare framework for the keeping of fur animals based on the work of the Food Safety Authority in preparing a new regulation for the keeping of fur animals. The issues of fur animals will also be addressed in the forthcoming agricultural and food communication to be submitted to the Stortinget. Finally, I am concerned that all animals should be treated in a good and sound manner. Competent and responsible animal owners with proper attitudes are a prerequisite for this, and fortunately most keepers in Norway today are competent and responsible. We as authorities can contribute through an up-to-date regulatory framework based on available knowledge of the needs of individual animal species, as well as through good and effective supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1543	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, sail if I don't think he really answered my original question. So that's going to give him the opportunity to do now. I just want to point out some things. Firstly, I think that throughout my entire post I said that the Left is not against livestock or keeping animals trapped. The point is to take into account the needs of the animals and to create suitable farming practices and, through breeding, to produce the animals that work best in that team. Then I must say that the Council of State has an incredible patience. We see in the left that we were quite rusty when we gave ten years: we wait ten years, we give the industry the chance for ten years to try, through breeding and through other measures, to make the livestock team get better. This isn't like keeping a cow. When all farms that have been in charge have been found damaged animals, it is not because the farms are malicious people, but because these are predators that are kept in very small cages under such conditions that such damage will only occur. I think I'm going to argue that inspections in all the cabins would have led to the discovery of animals that were always damaged. Suffering if I represent Oslo and Left, I've been in many facets, and it's not a reality that I meet. The question then is whether the industry decides to follow the rules they have is reassuring enough for the Council of State or whether it is actually time to establish rules based on the needs of these predators. This would probably lead to a closure of the industry, as it did in Sweden, but at least we'll take the right starting point. What left is critical of is whether breeding is possible to produce this type of animal. I could have talked a lot about it, I've grown up in a dog family that's had a lot of breeding. And it's clear that if you're going to get animals not to be scared people, it requires a great deal of physical contact with the animal. Imagining large physical contact with 14,000 mink per day is a demanding exercise. I don't think that's a good idea. Isn't it much more honest to admit to the industry that we don't think they're going to achieve the goals we set for them for ten years, and give them some time to change? I think that's a much more real way of dealing with it. But it's obviously so that no matter how many arguments we have that we can't turn these animals into suitable domestic animals for us, it doesn't persuade the council. So my question is repeated: what's going on, what revelations are going to take to make the Council of State even change its position?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1556	The representative Skei Grande focuses on whether it is possible to obtain reliable animals, if it is possible to influence breeding. The Scientific Committee on Food Safety states that breeding can improve animal welfare by reducing the level of fear towards humans. According to the Scientific Committee, it is easy to select reefs and declines for tameness over a few generations. Breeding of trustworthiness and tameness, together with the socialisation of animals, could contribute to a significantly better animal welfare in fur animals. Thus, the effort to obtain trusting animals is a combination of the influence of breeders in the daily care of the animals and targeted breeding. Support has been provided for breeding measures under the Agriculture Agreement for several years and the breeding measures have been required to comply with the St. Announcements. No 12 for 2002–2003, on animal husbandry and welfare. The Norwegian Pet species report that for many years they have prioritised their behavioral skills in breeding, among other things. in the breeding plan for fur animals from 1993 and in two animal welfare action plans, by 2007 at the latest. Unlike the breeding operations for animal species such as cattle, pigs and sheep, the owner or owner of the breeding material of Norway does not directly control the breeding operation. The breeding work in Norwegian fur farms has so far depended on the objectives of each individual smoker or owner. The pet species believes that the development of animal behaviour, especially in terms of trustworthiness, has developed positively over the last 10 to 15 years. Both mink and reefs in Norwegian herds are considered to be better adapted to human and farm conditions. Many suggest that there is a positive genetic link between behaviour and reproduction, which has contributed to the priority of breeding. I see the need to intensify the breeding work for tameness and trustfulness. In a letter to the Norwegian Animal Battle yesterday, I made it clear that the stated objectives of the Storing Communication should be given priority. I have expressed a clear expectation to the industry that they will establish common criteria for breeding on these characteristics and will be able to provide evidence of breeding progress in the fur animal nutrition as a whole. And I pointed out that the breeding work has to be seen in the context of the mandatory certification system that the Pet species is now establishing. So a little bit about the situation in other countries, which was also a topic in the first article of the interpellant. It is true that in Sweden it is not a ban on fur farming. However, the requirements for keeping reefs are such that it is no longer practicable or economically feasible to operate in this industry. However, Sweden has a decrease production of approx. 1.2 million skins a year. In Denmark, there is a ban on the rearing of reefs, with a transitional period of 15 years. However, Denmark remains one of the largest manufacturers of mink in Europe. In Finland, there is no ban. Finland is a large producer of reefs and also has mining rights. It's a ban in the Netherlands. In Switzerland, cage operations are prohibited. In Austria, it is prohibited. In England, the production of fur animals is prohibited. So there's a situation that varies something -- it varies something, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1573	I'm sure it will.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1576	In many ways, I feel that fur nutrition is now in a time of destiny. Discussions in the light of recent television headlines on industrial conditions have clearly reinforced resistance to the economy of the population. The new regulation from 1998 on the keeping of fur animals, with a transitional period until 1 January 2009, has been implemented, as the Council of State has explained. Major improvements have been made. New proposals for further improvement of the regulatory framework are now being consulted and are soon at the Council of State table, with the aim of strengthening animal welfare. Of course, all animal husbandry shall be in accordance with the provisions of the new Animal Welfare Act, where the self-esteem of animals itself has a central place. We cannot accept that animals suffer because of poor care, sickness or injury. It shall immediately clean up the animal owner. The monitoring statistics of the Food Safety Authority show that in 3 pst. the number of inspections in fur zoos has been speeded up. All the other livestock laws have a greater proportion of urgent decisions. Pets are in comparison with a total of 27 pst. However, it must also be stated that in 2010 the inspections of the Food Safety Authority led to 80 pst. to decisions so-called pre-announced. It's too high a number. This is because not all farms have kept the necessary progress in phase-in of the revised regulatory system. There may be missing outboard fences, missing outboard shelfs, leftovers, etc. It is vital that the industry itself now addresses and improves this situation. And we also see that it does through the five-point plan to ensure animal welfare and animal health in fur farms that the Pelsa Animal Board adopted on 14 November. I'll mention: health care system for fur animals, i.e. four mandatory veterinary visits per year, with advice and preventive work veterinary visits in all farms mandatory certification scheme, which is a continuous audit of external auditors who also revise and control other parts of Norwegian agriculture strictly self-justice – breeders who do not follow the requirements of the Food Safety Authority are excluded from the breeding team and lose the possibility of placing on the market And in addition, the Food Authority is stepping up unannounced inspections. This must work. Transparency, and having this plan documented for each farm, must be positive. Otherwise, I have to say that while it is painful and nauseating to see animals suffering, it is also bad to think of all the serious breeders who have everything on their care and who are hanged as animal abusers and what is worse, in the wake of the campaigns that have been going on for some time now. It's sad to see what these unjust accusations do to them. I'm against collective punishment. Finally, I would like to remind you that the fur industry is a legal, legal industry. The products have a large market. If production is not carried out here, it is carried out in other countries under poorer animal welfare conditions. The industry means a lot of income and employment in many districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1610	Once again in a short time, we have been able to see in the media that some people in fur nutrition have been exposed by living in cages with open wounds and tear-off parts of the body. Today, we allocate about 47 million to the state budget. kr in subsidies to the industry. The Food Authority has carried out 101 inspections, where only six were not agreed. Food surveillance in Norway sends notice of impositions. But if we look at Denmark, they do it a little bit differently. First, they have seven times more controls in their fur farms than we have in Norway. There is also a police report from the Food Safety Authority of those who have committed infringements. We have seen that the Food Authority has not done so here. And if you're taken for a slightly less serious violation that's been committed, under supervision, you have to take a new test to prove that you know the law. The number of infringements has fallen dramatically in Denmark — there has been great and good progress. So maybe that's something we in Norway should also see if there's a way we should go. What I think is broken is that the industry is actually weakened by the fact that we have a government council that does not take responsibility. The Council of State has become a new Minister of State in this Chamber. He has said for several years that he will take some drastic action, without anything happening. So my question to the Council of State is: why doesn't the Council of State not do what the Advance Party wants, that the unprofessional ones on the market, who are running with the default and neglect of animals, lose their permission to drive animals overnight? In that way, you close out the unprofessional and let the serious drive the industry on. Then it is wrong to do as, among other things. SV, as we read, will complete the industry completely. This is going to be wrong, as the industry has, as I said, also actors who are serious and operate according to the law. My question to SV, with the rhetoric they have, is whether they intend to put it down, among other things. fish farming when a person finds salmonnus. Are you also going to shut down the chicken production when we see that over 100,000 chickens die on their way to the slaughterhouse? It has to be that one hand follows what the other does a little bit. Then I can also ask SV, because they are because we are going to have more predators: we see that predators damage thousands of sheep every year. Should one then have more predators, or should one think of animal welfare and possibly have something done with predators? Here's a part that's not hanging in the hop. I think it's a little strange to hear some parties in this room here that have never been concerned with animal welfare before. I picked up what's going on in Finnmark a few months ago when it comes to the reindeer industry, where animal trag animals happen every day. Every day, there are animals up there! No one in this room was interested in getting hold of it, except the Progress Party. But when the media gets on the track and starts writing, we see one after another. First, the Workers' Party goes out and says they're going to take the unprofessional ones, too. And then they're going to give them six months to see if they get to be. Now I hear that the representative from the Workers' Party is actually positive and mentions nothing of their intention to remove the industry in six years. But here you're going to be able to control it altogether. If you want to tackle animal welfare, you can go to the Finnmarks. The slaughter weight has fallen by 25 p.m., disappeared, on all animals. There are too many animals and too little food. We have calves that are tormented and die of hunger. Nobody's responding. And we have a research report that says that cleanness is short-lived and can't eat. Because there's too little food, they eat stone. It is based on research reports. I have also mentioned this – no one is interested in animal welfare. But once something starts coming up, especially those parties that have bad opinion measurements, like SV and Left, come forward, but they're not very much in focus when it comes to animal welfare. So I would specifically ask the Left, who has taken up this interpellation, to join in and fight for animal welfare – also in those places that TV 2 does not write about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1625	The right is concerned that we should have a viable agriculture in Norway. It is important for several reasons, but not least to ensure a country-wide settlement and processing the values and opportunities of the resource base in the districts. In many cases, traditional agriculture needs additional industries to provide a reasonable income base. Therefore, it is important to have an overall approach to agricultural issues and to how best to ensure a life base in District Norway. Small power is a good example of an important additional industry in agriculture; fur farming is another example. It's been a few years since I last visited a fur breeder in my own home country, Rogaland. At the time, animal welfare was also on the agenda, as part of the treatment of the stockpiling and welfare notification in the early 2000s. What I may remember best from this visit is the knowledge that we actually have here a part of Norwegian agriculture that competes on the international market in fierce competition with other countries' operators, and that the industry is almost non-subsidized if we ignore the transport aid on feed available, as well as the reimbursement scheme for overprices in feed. Their share of the agricultural agreement is extremely marginal. Norwegian fur production is not a negligible part of Norwegian agricultural activity. The industry itself states that production is on about 300 holdings and is located in all counties except Finnmark and Akershus, and that the industry has a turnover value of about 300 million. kr. I think the Minister of Agriculture has had a balanced approach to the view of fur farming and, not least, maintained the principle of not imposing a collective punishment on an entire industry on the basis of the fact that individual operators have not done their job properly. At the same time, the Minister of Agriculture has insisted that such recent conditions are unacceptable. He has recently expressed it in this interpellation debate. I would also like to stress that animal protection organisations are doing an important job of detecting unworthy conditions in the industry. The fur animals are the weak party in this discussion, and we must ensure that animal welfare is properly maintained. The economic operators themselves have an important role to play in ensuring that the industry operates within a sound framework. Most of the actors do this, and I understand that many people don't recognize the descriptions the industry has received in the media over the past few weeks. Nevertheless, the industry itself must address these challenges first and foremost. It is therefore positive that the Norwegian Animal Battle Board last Sunday adopted a 5-point plan to ensure good animal welfare and animal health in Norwegian fur industry. All the elements of this plan are important steps in the right direction: both the establishment of the health care system for fur animals, the extension of the compulsory veterinary visit scheme, the introduction of a mandatory certification scheme and the point of a stricter self-justice so that breeders who do not comply with the requirements of the Food Safety Authority will be excluded from the breeding system and lost the possibility of the placing on the market of leather through Oslo Skinnauctions. Last but not least, the last point of this plan is important, namely that Norway’s Animal Species Act itself will allocate more internal resources to work on animal health and animal welfare. In addition to this action plan from the industry itself, the Food Safety Authority has also notified stricter controls, including: with multiple unannounced visits. This is good. So we would like to argue that all of these measures should have been introduced at an earlier date. I hope that fur nutrition itself sees the power that lies in the opinions of opinion. Most people respond – rightly – with disgust at animals suffering, and animals should not suffer either. The EU introduced an import ban on Norwegian and other country cell products, much with the background of an effective lobbying campaign where animals and animal suffering were at the centre of attention. This implies that the industry itself must be extremely focused on cleaning up its own collection and ensure that animal health and animal welfare aspects are constantly focused on a strong focus. The right is expecting industry to take on this challenge and to see better animal welfare and animal health in the industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1648	I thank the interpellant for addressing a very important matter. It's not the first time we discuss fur animals and fur animals in this room, but new information unfortunately leads us to have to re-examine the matter to discuss it thoroughly. We have again been documented as unacceptable in Norwegian fur farms. Animal welfare organisations have done a good job and have shown examples of totally unacceptable conditions. They have seen the facts on the map and created a necessary and important debate on animal welfare. Food surveillance, which is responsible for animal welfare in this country, has also revealed totally unacceptable conditions. According to the Newspaper, the number of comments, deviations and impositions has increased in the last few years. It happens despite the fact that we have still received insurance, including in this room, that the situation is going to improve. I agree with the Minister of Agriculture when he describes what is happening today as totally unacceptable. I also agree with the Minister of Agriculture when he says that this is not the way we can have it in this country. We have to give the industry a chance to clean up, it's claimed, but it's been said before. We said that when we discussed fur farming last year, and we said that in 2003. The industry has received many warnings and many chances, but we see little progress. There is little reason to believe that it should be improved this time. That's why SV says we have to wind up fur farming in Norway. Some try to exonerate the serious trauma we've seen, claiming that damage occurs in all animal husbandry. But there's a limit when we see images of trapped limbs. When we see images of gnawed bones, it indicates something more than damage. This indicates dissatisfaction and malaise, which is a major problem in addition to the damage itself. When we see animals do self-harm, it's not just a damage in line with what we see in other livestock, it's an example of indifference. There is also some reason why the veterinary unit has expressed itself very skeptical about the farming of fur animals. The veterinary association questioned whether it is possible to ensure animal welfare for wild animals in netting cages at all. This is a very basic relationship that it is not possible to talk away from. Here is also one of the answers to the challenges of the Progress Party and others: The fact that we have wild animals in cages that are so hurt that they hurt themselves, and that are not designed to live in small cages, is a very special situation that we have to deal with. We can't help but say that we also have problems in other industries. It's closing the eye for a big problem, it's closing the eye for animal health, and it's not addressing the challenges that lie ahead of us, to blame for the fact that there are several challenges on the table as well. With so much animal health problems and with so little prospects for improving my SV that we now have to lay down a plan for the controlled closure of fur animal husbandry in Norway. Those who are in the industry today, and not least those who intend to invest, need to get a good signal about what's going to happen in the future. They have to get it now, because now we've been saying the same thing for a very long time, and it's just going to be repeating the same things. Now it's time for us to be clear on how to proceed, and for those who intend to invest, to be informed that the only possible solution now is a guided winding-up. We have long traditions of good and responsible animal husbandry in Norway, and I think that is one of the reasons why we have a very wide legitimacy for Norwegian agriculture in the opinion of this country. That is why it is unlikely that we will not let this matter ruin anything with the legitimacy of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1665	The centre party is positive to have a fur animal nutrition activity in Norway. The centre party is also concerned with animal welfare, and our struggle for a small-scale agriculture across the country is perhaps the most important contribution in this way. The interpellant refers to the following sentence in St.meld. No 12 for 2002-2003: ‘If significant breeding improvements are not achieved during a ten-year period, it should be considered to eliminate the level of fur animals.’ [[...]] The interpellant points out that no parties reserved themselves against this, but I think that the representative Skei Grande is bombing roughly when she wants a ban on this background. Now it's a little bit unclear to me whether the Left wants a ban, or whether they're going for the so-called FrP model to wind up the support, i.e. a system that means that large units in the central strut are okay, small units in the districts are not okay. To Skei Grande: first, it is not possible to give an industry a ten-year period and then come after seven years with absolute conclusions. Secondly, the former party leader of the inter-pellant, then Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim, has chosen not to enter an absolute requirement for liquidation if these improvements do not take place. It says it has to be assessed. Thirdly, it is not the case that the issues currently identified are related to the breeding situation, but they are related to infringements of the existing legislation. Let it be clear: animal welfare is the most important thing. The legislation shall be complied with and the responsibility of the supervisory authorities, industry and, in particular, of the individual farmer. At the same time, it is clear that in all animal husbandry there will be sick and injured animals. It's not possible to get away. I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture has been so clear to the industry. I believe that the industry is now taking action that will work. In addition, I am concerned that it is necessary to invest more in the breeding work in order to obtain even more trusting animals. There is also something that the Minister of Agriculture has done. I think now it's important that we don't act in an affect. We must be clear that the pictures we have seen from different fur zoos are about the fact that the legislation has not been followed. It is therefore not obvious that the response from the authorities should now be more stringent requirements for the technical specifications for the husbandry of fur animals. I myself have been to the fur zoo of the head of the Norwegian Pelsa Animal Battle a few months ago. On his farm, we've seen 13 damaged animals in the media. These were being treated. The almost 13,000 healthy animals never came on TV. I believe that there is reason to stop a bit by the press coverage of these matters, and then perhaps especially the matter related to the head of the Pelsa Animal Battle. Here was the big look. We have now, all the representatives, been sent an e-mail with a link to the report from the Food Authority on this farm. Those of us who read the small notes in the newspapers will also have learned that the Food Authority in this case did not impose on the farmer. There is reason to strongly criticise the way the Food Safety Authority has handled this specific matter. We politicians may have to speak to the media sometimes on a lack of basis. The Food Authority shall not do so. I commend the interpellant's commitment to animal welfare. I get that she's pulling out her good relationship with her cats, but people in the countryside must have income. They can't live by clapping their cats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1690	Today it is approx. 350 fur farms in Norway. We have natural conditions for fur farming in Norway. We have a big fish processing business that provides by-products, and we have climatic conditions that are ideal for fur farming. But regardless of profitability and regional perspective, it is essential that animal health is in the driver's seat, and I do not experience that today. In addition, there is a lack of competence in the industry. Competence and ethical awareness must be at the root of avoiding those images that we've seen lately. The industry has a big job to do here. I really want to believe that the industry has understood the seriousness. Norwegian fur species have produced a five-point animal health plan. They will establish a new health care system, have mandatory certification and veterinary visits in all farms. Thus, self-justice should be significantly increased, and there should be zero tolerance for breeders who do not comply with any instructions from the Food Safety Authority. But I'm afraid this is too small and too late. In 1998, i.e. almost 12 years ago, a new legislation on fur nutrition was adopted: larger cages, cage shelves in the cages and own objects of activity should provide better health for the animals. Farms would have ten years to clean up. It's a long time. In 2009 the legislation came into force, and the time had come to investigate how it had gone. Special Inspector of the Food Authority, Leif Homme, personally supervised eleven fur farms in his district. How many sick animals the Food Authority itself found, we don't know, since the number of sick animals that were not treated properly, in their statistics, was combined with the number of animals without a health card. The report shows that when diseased animals were detected on a farm but killed before supervision left the site, the farmer dropped the more serious remark ‘notice of decision’ and received only ‘notice of obligation’. This is too weak to handle when sick and injured animals are discovered. This is critical! Here, there is something serious wrong with both routines and resources. In an industry that has long been in the authorities’ searchlights for animal welfare, it is unacceptable for supervisory authorities to act in good faith and, in addition, to a large extent, in advance alerts to control. The nation has conducted a round of rings to the leaders of the Workers' Party. Many of them are skeptical of a ban, but require rapid cleaning and reinforced control. That is the same message we are hearing today from the Council of State, Breck. It will prove difficult in 2011 with the government's draft budget. Food surveillance actually reduces its operating budget by more than 2 pst. The Christian People's Party has asked budgetary questions about the consequences this cut will have. The answer given by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is as follows: ‘The proposed reduction in the budget of the Food Safety Authority for 2011 will impose stringent efficiency and priority requirements, inter alia, on the basis of the risk profile.’ It is therefore called for measures and control, but the control body is weakened. We believe this in the Christian People's Party is double communication and disclaimer from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1712	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for having this debate now. It is not least up-to-date over the last few weeks' media coverage. I want to start with something that I think is important, and that the interpellant takes up, and that is the ethical dilemmas we face in this type of livestock farming. I think it's important to recognise that there are some ethical dilemmas in this type of livestock farming. But there are actually some ethical dilemmas in all animal husbandry. There's probably a calm atmosphere in the interpellant and her cats, but if we go to dog breeding, there's a lot of ethical dilemmas with dogs that I think are being bred up to a life of great pain. So it's not just this industry that applies, but there are some ethical dilemmas that lie there, that are balanced, and that it's important to balance continuously in order to improve animal welfare and the frames around it. But then I want to go back to what's happened lately, which is a challenge. Obviously, the pictures we've seen affect us. They arouse the mind in us and make us react. Something else would really be inhuman. It is also a fact that at least some of the images that have stood over the screens are realistic and show animals with injuries and suffering that should have been being treated, or animals that should have been killed. It's confirmed even by the pet veterinarian of the genus Pelsal, so it's also a confession that I think it's important to bring with it. The next confession that I think it's important to get to, is that the relationship to the industry is controversial. It is a balanced approach that lies there, which means that one has not received a ban at an earlier date. It's a fact that the industry has to take the most seriously. Unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how one chooses to see it, it means that it is enough that one breeder neglects their animals for an entire diet to be affected. It really means very concrete that the industry is now unable to tolerate more cases where the reputation of the industry is challenged in view of the focus that has been and the care of animal welfare and animal health. I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture has so clearly given signals and instructions to the Food Safety Authority on several controls and unannounced controls. This is absolutely necessary to the industry in view of the reputational problem. I am also pleased that the industry is now thanking itself for the five points mentioned by several speakers before me. It is absolutely necessary that they follow up and continuously also assess improvements, even if the framework initially provides space for action. However, the industry itself must also be involved in promoting action. They have done so through this five-point plan, and I am very pleased that they do so. I am not saying that it will be enough, and I am not saying that it will be enough for the Food Safety Authority to carry out more frequent and unannounced checks. I think we should always focus on improving animal welfare and animal health in Norway. I honestly think that's what everyone here really wants. I think it is necessary to discuss further what the Minister for Agriculture was talking about: New legislation is coming. He bases a good and holistic approach to this, and I have great faith in it. I believe that in the future it is absolutely necessary to discuss the manning situation on fur farms – how many people need to take good care of 14 000 animals, which was the number used by the interpellant. How are the approval rules? It is today that you get approval at start-up in the industry. Should it be a system in which one is also given rules for official approval, e.g. Every four years? Yes, we can take more action if necessary. The most important thing now is that the industry reacts to the situation it is in, and eliminates cases where unprofessional breeders destroy too many. If not, it's against a ban. Half a year is sufficient for the industry to clean up this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1731	For the Progress Party, fur animal nutrition is an important industry that has been important for districts and agriculture for many years. It has been very important either as the main income or as the income for many farmers, but the number of drivers has become fewer and fewer. Whether this is due to increased competition from abroad, whether the industry is unpopular among many, or whether the opponents have become tougher in their fight against the industry, I don't know. Perhaps there is a complex answer – and perhaps several reasons – among other things. more media focus. The industry has also been a good woman's workplace, where the offer has not been as large and varied as desired. The industry has also meant too much, among other things. slaughterhouses by becoming waste-waste-free and have also received income that could become a cost if the fur animal industry is now disappearing. There is no doubt that large parts of Norwegian business can be improved, and then perhaps fur industry is one of the industries with the highest potential in that direction. Over many years, it has been claimed that animal welfare is not good enough. This, I think, is greatly exaggerated. That there have been too many injured animals, I think it probably has been – unfortunately today too. But prohibiting such a diet because of some pictures of damaged animals, is well to go too fast. Let's say that the Advance Party also believes that the industry must step up and want to have a deadline. If they are unable to meet the requirements set, the hook is on the door. In order to achieve a positive result for the industry, they must be improved. At the same time, it is important that there are also more controls, and these must, of course, be unannounced. The checks shall be able to provide guidance, instructions and, of course, fines or withdrawals of authorisation, if necessary. I think they're approx. The 500 members of the Norwegian Pet species will do their utmost to ensure that the industry survives. They do not have any other options if the industry is to be able to survive. When this is said, no one does not want us to have as good an animal welfare as possible. That's why I think it's strange that no more look at the whole thing within this area. These include: The herds of predators are a good example. Very many who used to run with buffs have had to stop, as the herds of predators have been large, and many animals have been injured or killed. The wolf and bear have taken buffs in both the fields. Carnivores, guessing, previous harvesting of the harvest and many more measures have helped little or nearly zero. In all these debates, not many have said that we must have fewer predators. In the program of the parties, it is only the party of progress that has said that we do not want wolves. Making predatory zones where, among other things: The wolf is at peace, works against his purpose. Here it seems that all parties, except the Advance Party, want to pay off the problems. They increase the compensation for killed animals, but I know that there is not a single farmer who wants their animals to be injured or killed by predators because of the replacement. So simple is not society. There are also many other areas where animal welfare can improve. I have now sent a question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food about what he can do to reduce the number of poultry dying during transport. Last year 123,703 animals died in this way. This is also true in many other areas – large or small. That's why I want to thank the interpellant for bringing the theme of fur nutrition up in the Storting, even though we have different views on what the end result is going to be. The Progress Party still believes in the future of the industry, as it means a lot to agriculture and the districts. It also means a lot to other industries that will get in trouble if this disappears. The fact that the industry should have a chance to improve is part of this. That it has not been taken up and taken hold of before – so that we have today’s situation – the red-green government has to take responsibility for it. SV will immediately prohibit the industry. They could take this up and make demands together with the responsible State Council, if this had been correct and important. When this is not done, or at least not done well enough, the government must be co-responsible for the situation of the industry today. For the Progress Party, we have taken action by proposing to remove transfers to the industry. This is in line with our agricultural policy, as we believe such an industry should survive and have a good performance, regardless of state aid. At the same time, it is also a signal that we do not tolerate the fact that animals do not receive good treatment. We believe this about all animals – we want animal welfare high on the agenda. I would also like to give a small criticism of the Food Safety Authority, whether it is deserved or not: having reported surveillance I do not think anything helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1757	I'll open up thanking the interpellant for the initiative, although after hearing the article actually I'm a little in doubt about the motive. In fact, if you're going to follow the interpellant's logic with regard to animal husbandry, she would have to have brought in both the puppy coal she grew up with, and the two cats she currently lives with. Because it is that the number of pets in Norway that have it quite broken is also very high. It's never tricked – and not very good – just to pick strong pictures to promote a case. There is a wave across Europe today – from my point of view – quite as fanatical opinions about this with animal husbandry. In the case of marine mammals, we have the same problem, in the case of fur animal nutrition, we have the same problem, and we have the same problem in the case of other animal husbandry. It is then that it may be more important that we, as politicians, stand a little firm and deal with the law and the agreements we have made, and rather have stricter governance. Animal husbandry is more important to Norway, I think, than too many other countries. Then it is very important that we, as politicians, stand firm in relation to the law we have already established. It is regrettable that it may seem that the Food Safety Authority has only exercised apparent oversight. After the debate we had just one year ago, it is also regrettable that the Council of State has not been able to communicate to the Food Authority how important it is that the supervision that has taken place in the last year was unmistakable and undeniable. There is also a contributing reason why we have got the media image we have now, too much of the debate that is going on today, based on ugly pictures in the media, and is not just evidence-based. It's a little stupid. Now the Council of State has announced that this has been taken up, and from the Right we actually expect that the exact supervision part is now corrected. It is also a bit of a picture that we have a government party, which is now going to be responsible for running the executive policy, which is very much in this particular case. When we suddenly find ourselves in a difficult situation, we note that the last week from the government parties has been both representatives who were going to lay down, and representatives who were going to make the industry grow. It doesn't make the image simpler. Fact-based processes should be a prerequisite for the policy created in this room. And then I actually think that we'll make it a little bit down, and then spend some time figuring out what are the facts in these cases. We know that some of the organisations that were behind the pictures that started the ball are organisations that believe that animal husbandry is about not going to happen at all. Then it becomes a little too simple that we just jump on a ball. Animal husbandry is subject to legislation, and animal husbandry is in line with other animal husbandry here in Norway. Then it's also the right-hand side that we're going to use the law we have, we're going to use the supervision we have, and we're going to use the agreements we've made in political processes, to make sure that the animal team is going to be as good as we expect it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1774	This debate is essentially about what we consider ethically sound. We allow many forms of animal husbandry in Norway – the representative of Bakke-Jensen is quite right that this is important in Norway – and we have strict requirements for animal welfare. This leads to a useful and good and quite continuous debate on where the boundaries go for what kind of animal husbandry we want and need, what rules should apply, and for what purpose we believe animal husbandry is necessary. In this debate, the most important thing must be to prevent unnecessary suffering. Addressing all these issues, SV believes that fur farming in Norway should be abolished. First, because we are constantly seeing shocking examples of the suffering of fur animals. Secondly, because there has been no sign of improvement in many promises over a long period of time. And thirdly, because fur is not a necessary product, and in no way can it be compared to the production of food. There's also a perspective that I'm recording that the Right is trying to trace by constantly putting similarities between the inter-pellant and – I'm counting on the undersigned as well – what he calls fanatics. That, I think, is an innocuous derailment. Basically, you also have to ask yourself if you think that the breeding of wild animals, which usually often pulls several kilometers a day, is compatible with our demands on animal ethics. Everything so far suggests that the answer is no, and a good sign of this is last year’s supervision of Norwegian fur farms, where only one of the farms was approved by the supervisory authorities. It is at the heart of the fact-based discussion that the representative, Mr Bakke-Jensen, calls for, but he does not go into himself, that the situation in the industry is demonstrably under any criticism. There are many attempts to trace this debate, I think, and it deserves a comment. The most factual point is the requirement to follow up the possible closure of the industry in Norway with an import ban. It is, frankly, a debate that is more natural to take after we have concluded in this debate here. It is certainly tempting to defend our own practice of saying that there is worse to elsewhere, but such a way of arguing seems inadequate if for a moment we try to imagine what Norway would look like if we practiced the same thinking and logic in other areas in Norway, such as labour rights, medical requirements, bans on child labour, etc. There is an invalid way to make an argument. The second attempt to trace off is to compare nature's behaviour in wild nature with self-damage in cages. It goes without saying that there are differences there between wild animals being taken, and wild animals gnawing at each other in small cages set up by humans. The third attempt at derailment is of a slightly more exotic nature, and it's Right's new-discovered commitment to women's and workers' hard conditions and working conditions around the world. I think the Right is embarrassed by putting women in the cotton industry up against fur animals, first because the Right should look at its own positions in free trade regimes, labour protection and trade organization if they want to strengthen workers' condition in poor countries, and secondly because it is an unusually easy way to get focus away from its own support of an industry of which their own voters, in all likelihood, are opponents of. Right-wing accusations of hypocrisy in this debate fall entirely into their own unfairness and expose the Right to far stronger characteristics, which we can allow others to take care of. So it is also true that many industries that keep animals have problems with animals and conditions that are highly critical. Chicken production has been mentioned in the debate here. Animals that are grazing have also been mentioned today, and we would like to have more discussions on animal welfare in several areas. It seems SV is very positive. Here is the basis for many good debates, but fur is not a product we in any way need or, as the interpellant was in, which there is demand for. For this reason, it is high time to bring the industry down in Norway. I fully share the interpellant's wish to use the subsidies for conversion funds, which I myself have mentioned earlier. Then I would like to thank the interpellant for a good initiative. I hope we can all agree that there are critical conditions in other industries and in other countries, and that there are even more serious issues than this, cannot be an argument that we should suffer animals in cages. I honestly think that the derailment has been very many in the discussion so far. It suggests poor self-confidence on behalf of its own political stance, and that many parties are strongly in favour of the electorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1795	There have been many strong headlines in the media recently on fur animal nutrition. They've been mentioned here now. You should always be able to look for several aspects of a matter, but I don't think the matter gets any easier for that reason. I am after this both for and against that we are going to have a fur animal nutrition in Norway. It's demanding. I am brave because animals that are really wild are kept in cages and are going to deliver luxury products that I ask questions about whether we need at all, and because, because this industry is globally established and has an international market that is there, no matter how we relate to it. In this context, it is close to believing that we in Norway are doing this in a more animal-friendly way than any other. After the headlines we've seen in the media now, I think the industry is on thin ice. Those who live on the edge of the law in this industry could destroy everyone else, if you don't put an end to that unprofessionalism. I am pleased that the government is concerned with animal welfare and has adopted an animal welfare law, but that in itself is not enough. It must be followed up. Food surveillance must be supervised and the requirements of the industry must be strict. The working party considers that further unannounced supervision is necessary. We all react to seeing images of damaged animals, which seem to suffer from both physical and mental illnesses. I think the industry just has to deal with that. What we've seen lately, I think has created greater resistance to this industry among people. But I am not only responding to pictures that have been sent on TV. I also react to how the actionists just show up at night and take care of themselves around the farms, where they break in and put a lot of light on the animals and stress them and film them to make the pictures as effective as possible. There has been a clear message from the Council of State that the industry needs to clean up the unsustainable situation, and it is important that self-justice is increased in order to maintain a certain degree of professional pride. Therefore, everyone in the industry now has to take the signals seriously, otherwise I think you just have to pack up and say thank you very much. Clearly, it is important in the future to focus on adequate manning, mandatory certification, good quality systems and procedures and health requirements and systems that can bring both animals and nutrition to the fore in the international driver’s seat and show how to drive fur farming in a way that ensures animal welfare and helps to raise the status of operations, including internationally. I would like to say to the representative of the Workers' Party that we are actively working on animal welfare, both in the case of fur animals and in the case of pure, which was mentioned, not in the form of a crisis resolution in the media, but in the form of a good dialogue with the industries concerned and the supervisory authorities to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1812	I want to start by thanking you for one, at my discretion, very solid contributions from the interpellant Skei Grande, where in a very thorough and intelligible way she took on the animal's needs. There was a post that I thought was very good in a city-land-aliance-thinking, which is important to me. What Skei Grande said – the attitude she set in motion – I fully agree with that. My soul was in 1988 and discussed the feeding of chicken in Norway. At that time it was allowed to use a growth-promoting antibiotic, Zinc Bacitracin, from the Laboratory of the Pharmacies. This led to a strong debate, but a necessary debate, on how to feed chickens. This discussion is important both for pet animals and for domestic animals. It is important for the breeding of bees. It's important to keep rats, and it's important to how we're going to deal with the illegal holding of reptiles. It is important for domestic animals, but the dilemma is most severe for fur animals. We know that in the case of breeding, behavior in fur animals is heritable, and we know that when it comes to obtaining trusting animals in the fur zoo, it means how many fur animals you are responsible for. My soul was a county sagronomist in economics in the 1980s, when we had the big fur tree. Some of us made it possible at that time not to build bigger fur farms than what could be financed with grants and equity. But that wasn't the government's right lesson at the time. No, it was to be invested industrially. Of course, trustworthiness in animals has been linked to human contact, and developments in the 1980s have helped us to go in the wrong direction enough to be diplomatic. In the case of livestock farming in Norway today, we have a lot to do with improving animal welfare. We can take, for example: education in livestock behaviour. It should become a compulsory subject in the training of those who call themselves agronomists. It's not. Too little attention has been paid to the behaviour of animals in both lower and higher agricultural training over time. We have to look at the manufacturing conditions. Beeting for bovine animals should also apply to cattle in bulk. Calvebinger for cow standing on the booth, should be a natural thing. If you have it, the cow at the booth can be as good as having a cow in action. It would be natural to consider whether the chickens should not be able to get older, so that the legs of a chicken may have time to become bones. There will be a more ethical form of production for chicken than the one the chains push – a chicken that will cost NOK 29,90. I would appeal to the Animal Protection Alliance to have more practical contact with farmers. It is said from there, for example. that it is important for the calf to carry a dairy cow. If you get more practical contact, you may find that there are significant problems with a calf going one or two weeks with a dairy cow. All of us who are practitioners know what scenes and situations arise then. It's heartbreaking. We must also have a discussion that wounds and injuries to animals are part of the reality of animals, as it is with our children. The centre party takes a great deal of distance from the collective punishment of fur keepers. We take a strong distance from the illegal intrusion into the fur farms. We want us to focus more on breeding and behavior, seams if it's medium heredity. Trustfulness is linked to scope. We need to look at animal husbandry requirements. The health care of fur animals is important. I hope that something good will come out of this discussion, so that it goes in the way of our livestock farming, and that animal-friendly operations will come out more. I hope, then, that it is not promoted through detailed regulation, but through broad, clear guidelines that allow individual livestock keepers to follow up, and that following up is what also provides a safe economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1833	I want to start by thanking everyone who has participated. The reason why we in the left chose to raise the issue with an interpellation was because we wanted a slightly reflective round and maybe to see some movement in the different parties. That's exactly what I think we've got. Suffering if we've got some kind of strange results, we've experienced a debate where we see that there's also movement in many parties. I'm glad. I tried to reach out whether ‘absurd’ is a parliamentary expression, but I think the posts of the servitude might fit under that word. Then the President will have to correct me afterwards. Saying that the Left doesn't care about animal protection may fall within that category. Actually, we were the ones that made the message. We had an interpellant debate here on March 11. Then the servitude did not participate, but it was our interpellation, about animal welfare in general. Then we had three conclusions, and it's a little related to the last speaker said – I think there are three major animal protection challenges. It's all the animals we haven't seen as animals -- fish and birds, it's pet, it's a huge challenge, and it's fur animals. It's within these three major challenges we should have taken some action. The difference between the pet challenge and the fur challenge is that pets can be good. Swallow if there are many pets that don't have it well, and the sea if the breeding of pets is nearly reprehensible many times, it is actually possible for a cat and a dog to live good lives in this country. What we in the Left ask questions about is whether it is possible to produce fur animals that can also live good lives on Norwegian fur farms. That's what we're questioning. We've given it ten years. The deadline was 10 years to try to make this change. We're also leaning on a fairly broad alliance, which says something about this. Everything from the veterinarians, who are professional authorities, who are trained in this field, and who can do anything, until the Farmer sees that this is part of undermining animal husbandry as a trade and animal husbandry as a food route, and that we are unable to get this to be driven in a sufficiently good way. It was Lars Sponheim who signed an agreement with the industry. He said already last year that now you have to prepare for 2012 being the final line. And it's actually how the industry decided to enter into the collective agreement with Lars Sponheim, they chose to make an agreement when they presented the animal protection notice. It is the industry collectively that must also be responsible for that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1846	The President may state that the word ‘absurd’ does not appear on the list of non-parliamentary terms — provisionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1849	I would also like to thank you for a debate which has had many shades, but which is very important, and I would like to thank the interpellant, as I did initially, for continuing to keep this matter warm in the main hall. It's important, and it's right that it does. As I also said at the outset, in my opinion, the ongoing debate on fur animal husbandry has three different issues, which are important now. Is it right to keep animals in captivity to produce fur? Do we have sufficient legislation to ensure the welfare of fur animals? And do the fur farmers take good care of their animals? I believe that the most important thing is that animal welfare is well cared for while the animals are alive, and that they are killed in a gentle manner, not if they are held to produce food or fur or to acquire new knowledge, or if they are sports or family animals for that purpose. That is why, in my view, there is no basis for considering prohibiting the husbandry of fur only because the product is fur. We've been talking about the code. I am concerned that we should have knowledge-based management. The proposal for new legislation is based mainly on a report from the Scientific Committee on Food Safety of June 2008. The Scientific Committee has concluded that if fur animals are kept in accordance with the legislation, there is no risk of suffering of a significant degree of average individual suffering. Furthermore, the Scientific Committee has highlighted several modifications to current housing and operational procedures that could improve the welfare of fur animals. It must then be such that the new regulation that is coming will facilitate the substantial improvement of animal welfare for fur animals through a holistic approach, with requirements both for breeding, for keeping and for killing the animals. As I have said, I see the need to intensify the breeding work for tameness and trustfulness. I have made it very clear to the Peel Animal Battle, pointing out that the breeding work has to be seen in the context of the mandatory certification scheme that the Pels Animal Species is. And as I have also said, over the past few weeks, we have seen pictures that indicate that many fur breeders do not take good care of their animals. We can't have it that way in Norwegian fur farming, and I know that there's a minority that acts that way. Those who fail to comply with the legislation must leave the industry. So the interpellant asked when enough is enough. I want to answer back that instead of discussing a hypothetical issue, I want action now. I'm not so very concerned about visions right in this matter, and not about what's going to happen many years in time. Ensuring that we have the best standards and best practice in the industry, and that we ensure animal welfare now, is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1864	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1878	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1887	The size of the population today clarifies the confusion about the interpretation of prisoners’ rights into popular security and tightens the law to avoid unintended effects. The background to the fact that we now have this case in Stortinget is different statements in the press a year ago, when it emerged that prisoners from the EEA area as zones in Norwegian prisons are regarded as members of the public interest, not only with the right to cover expenditure on health care under compensation, but there was also a debate about whether they were entitled to the establishment of pension rights. It came after the posted relatively sharp reactions from most teams. Criminals who are not resident in Norway and who come to the country and carry out criminal acts shall obviously not be entitled to benefits they can obtain after an end to their acquittal and expulsion. It's obviously unreasonable, and it's against people's sense of justice. It's as simple as not getting paid to commit crime. You don't have to make a profit from committing a crime. That is what we are preparing for once and for all today. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Ministry have moved quickly into the issues, and that we can now adopt what should be current practice once and for all. Today, we make it clear that people who have no other than criminal ties with Norway should also not be allowed to join the population under restitution. The person must have been a member of the public’s security prior to the payment of compensation, but the right to a pension credit may also be lost when the individual receives an expulsion decision. Just so it's said, it's obvious to the government that as long as foreign criminals sit in Norwegian prisons and sonar sentences, they should of course have the right to receive the necessary health care and emergency care, like everyone else. What is now being prevented, on the other hand, is that the same criminals under restitution process rights that they can collect after the end of reconciliation. Everyone in this room agrees that criminal activity and the compensation of foreign citizens in Norway should not pay off. In the vote, the opposition also goes further than the majority this time. The problem is not only the right of prisoners to benefits after acquittal, but also under acquittal. The Progress Party even proposes to take from foreign prisoners the right to a daily allowance under compensation. Prisoners in Norwegian prisons are required to work during accruals and receive daily allowances for work, training, programmes or other measures. The Progress Party therefore believes that foreign criminals should work side by side with Norwegian criminals, but without getting the same payment. It is tempting to call this proposal an attempt to establish social dumping. It's nice little fair to take away from foreign criminals the pocket money they receive under atonement, which all the other prisoners also receive. The argument of the Progress Party is, as I see it, that the daily allowance rate they can receive in Norwegian prisons compared to the wage level in many of the home countries of the criminals is proportionately high. I strongly doubt the Presidency Party's assumption that 56 kroner a day's money in the day motivates criminal behaviour and a desire for reconciliation. These daily allowances are also intended to cover goods for use in the course of payment. It is tempting then to say that the Progress Party believes that foreign prisoners will literally live on bread and water, while other prisoners can receive a daily allowance to cover the cost of food and other goods for daily use. Fortunately, for the government, this is out-of-date policy. As long as you are in Norwegian prisons, you must be treated equally, with the same rights and obligations. The party itself is told that the prison population in Norwegian prisons should be discriminated against, where necessary, both in terms of health treatment and the day-to-day allowance for the obligation of activity due to the country of origin. It is an unsolvable practice of social dumping in prisons that the government does not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1904	This matter started in many ways for a while back with the notices that were in the evening mail on 6 January this year. The evening post revealed that foreign criminals who came to Norway to commit criminal offences and received a sentence of more than three years earned their rights in the Norwegian population. It prompted the Progress Party to respond, which led us to promote a proposal for a representative, which has been discussed earlier in this Chamber, if, among other things. changes in the Law on Social Security. In this regard, I would like to commend the government. I feel in many ways that our intention and our proposal from then on has been met in many areas in terms of changes to the Law on Social Security, by the fact that, after this decision has been made today, pension rights can no longer be earned by being in Norwegian prison. I think, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that the vast majority of people felt that it was incomprehensible that they had a situation in Norway where some could actually do serious criminal acts and earn a pension and take it to their country of origin, if you were in the EEA territory, for example. Bulgaria, a pension that was actually greater than a normal annual salary there. So I'm very happy that you clean up these relationships, and now you get a tightening of the law. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there are indeed openings in international law to discriminate against foreign criminals who come to Norway with only one objective — to do a criminal act — and also against those who have had a residence permit in Norway earlier through work and such, but have done a criminal act, and who then belong to Group A, to refer to the suspension and letter from the Minister of Justice. There is, in fact, the possibility of discriminating on the grounds that one can have specific responsibility for one's own citizens, as stated in international law. I show that it has also been assessed and looked at by the government. We in the Progress Party could, once we have gone through this legislation, imagine that the government had also challenged the EEA Regulation in this area. How far can you go about excluding people who have come here to do criminal acts, rights? It is true that they do not operate in a normal labour market or in a normal situation. You've done something that's punishable by getting into the situation that you're in. I think it also explains a good part of the proposals that we are making. I am also pleased, and believe that this proposal, the setting-up and what the government has put forward, will contribute positively to limiting what we refer to as charter crime. I also believe that we still need to keep an increased pressure on buying prison capacity abroad, which both the Minister of Justice and the Stortinget were concerned about when we discussed a Document 8 proposal that went on this issue earlier this year. Furthermore, I could also imagine looking at the possibility of tightening the legislation further, and comparing it with what it is like in other countries. As far as I know, there are also stricter rules in this area in particular. Denmark. With that, I take up the suggestions included in the vote, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1921	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1924	I agree with the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. I want to say that this is one of the issues where the government, when the matter came up, was very quick to make a proposition. It came to Stortinget already in the spring, and we had a wish to be present, also to the proposers, and to have it dealt with quickly. But then suddenly it didn't go very far. It's a little weird, and it's part of the political game that I have to admit that I like less. It is in this case cleared away an opportunity that has probably not been used to a particular extent. It's probably the most theoretical possibility, but an unfairness, which there's been a broad consensus to remove. So it's important in such cases to be able to deal a little bit in principle with the rules that we're obliged by internationally, and the rules that we're obliged to by the fact that people who are members of the people's rights and pay in actually process some rights. I think we should be clear about that. There is clearly a little different approach here to criminal policy in general. Some believe that if you have such a bad relationship in Norwegian prisons that it's like competing with the worst of the worst, then maybe some criminals are startled from committing crime in Norway. I'm sorry, I don't share that belief. I don't think it works like that, because it's not like in countries where they have terrible atoning conditions and cruel punishments, crime is lower than in Norway. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. On the other hand, I have more faith in the work that the government has been doing, in getting more people to zone in their home country. It's an important part of what we're doing to reduce the pressure on the Norwegian prison system and, like that, place people where they belong. That, I think, is a much better strategy than to resort to a criminal policy that should be very different for the different criminals. There may be different opinions about different parts of it – who should be sorted here and there, who should be treated cruelly, and who should not be treated cruelly. I think we have to stick to principles there too, until what we think works best in terms of combating crime in general, and that kind of deterrent does not work. I don't think anyone comes to Norway and commits crime for retirement either. Crime is about profit here and now – more short-sighted than that. But I am very pleased that we have closed the possibility that has been in the law until now, and that we also give the government support for the work it is doing to increase the use of housing in the home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1933	Working profit is a commonly used slogan for the work of this committee. Crimes shall not pay off. It is therefore gratifying that we are now being cleared up in the manifestly unfair legal situation regarding the interpretation of the People's Rights Act § 2-1 first to third paragraphs. I would also like to take the opportunity to comment on the views of the Progress Party on punishment. I quote from the setting: ‘These members consider it highly suspicious that criminal activity appears to be risk-free all the time it appears more lucrative to make a judgment in Norway than to live normally in the home country.’ I believe it is a fundamental principle that we in Norwegian prisons should treat people equally, regardless of nationality. The Progress Party asks in its proposal to start with the winding-up of the day-to-day allowance scheme for prisoners with foreign citizenship. I would very much like to have information on the structure of property in prisons in Norway, whether they are Norwegian or foreign. I don't think that's very much. When the Progress Party says in its comment that it is more lucrative to make a judgment in Norway than to live in its own country, it is also very poorly consistent with the Progress Party's demand for longer prison sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1947	The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the changes that are coming here, because the interpretation of the folklore laws has been unfortunate. I'm glad we can do something about it. The Christian People's Party raised the question in the oral Question Time in January of this year. I was very pleased with the response that the government came with immediately. At that time the Minister of Justice replied, but the Minister of Labour has also done a good job. Karin Andersen attacks the opposition because we chose not to deal with the matter before the summer. There I would say I strongly disagree. For the Christian People's Party's part, we could have dealt with this matter urgently before the summer, because the matter was in the Council of State on 28 May this year, and we had three weeks to deal with it. But one knew that the Progress Party wanted to promote other proposals, proposals that I disagree with, but I respect that they needed to go through the case in a better way. That's why I want to distance myself from the fact that this is about populism, and that it's part of the political game. We wanted the changes, but also had respect for the Progress Party's need for more time. This is about people who behave unlawfully in Norway, and who just kind of light up their heads. One saw an example that if one had a son for one year, a few would get a forty percent of the minimum pension. If one did more serious crime and was so ‘lucky’ to get three years in prison, a few dishes that could be paid in the form of an old age pension, and perhaps also a disability pension or a pension for the survivors. That's not correct. It was untimely, and it's against people's sense of justice. That's why it's important that you get these changes in place. I also think it is important to clarify that one has to take other steps in addition to the one that they are doing in this matter. One must continue to work to get more people to zone at home. Reconciliation transfers are important. The Christian People's Party wants those who are illegal in Norway to be sent home and zone abroad. Where one does not have these appointments in place, of course it is not possible. But this work must continue. Then I need to tell the case spokesperson from the Labour Party that the Christian People's Party is part of the opposition. Although it may be desirable to have a Christian People's Party on the team, we are not. I would therefore like to make it clear that the Christian People's Party does not go into the comments or suggestions made by the case-speaker in his statement. For the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely necessary – while one implements these changes – that one also ensures the necessary health care for those people who are illegal in Norway and who make a judgment. For the Christian People's Party, it is quite right that the daily allowance is the same regardless of your ethnic background. That is why I would also like to make it clear that the daily allowance is adapted to Norwegian circumstances. It's the same cost you have if you're illegal in Norway, or if you're going back to society. In this context, I would like to add that for the Christian People's Party, it may be true in other cases – when one looks at how reconciliation is going to be – that one sees that there are some people going into Norwegian society, and thus has other needs than the people to be sent back to their homeland. But it goes on different relationships than exactly the economics in this case. So I just have to say that I think the committee procedure has been good. I think we've done this in the right way. We've taken the time we need, and we're going to make changes that are important. The Christian People's Party will vote against the proposals of the Progress Party. We're now looking for changes that will make you a member of the population before atoning. At the same time, a cure for essential health rights under atone. Then the government will continue to work – and here there will be an additional pressure from the Christian People's Party – to get even more reconciliation transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1966	This case has shown the importance of precise rules on membership in the public interest. Membership is the entry ticket for benefits under the Social Security Act. Benefits under other laws, such as the Child Welfare Act, are also directly or indirectly linked to the rules on membership. Persons who are not related to Norway other than criminal activity have received in-society healthcare through an extended interpretation of the rules on membership as a resident. This has also led to questions about, for example: earned entitlement to a pension. The legislative proposal under consideration today eliminates the possibility of different interpretations at this point once and for all. Following the proposal, persons who can only refer to criminal activity in Norway will under no circumstances be entitled to membership in social security under compensation. However, they are maintained to cover healthcare provided that expenditure is not covered by other schemes or by their own resources. This restriction is new and will apply in particular to persons covered by social security schemes in another EEA country. After the proposal, there is a condition for membership under restitution that he or she was a member of the social security system on a normal basis before the compensation went into effect. However, the right to service in restitution shall lapse when the prisoner is expelled from the empire because of the seriousness of the criminal offences. This shall take place when a final decision on expulsion is taken. However, if the decision is taken in the middle of the settlement or, where appropriate, after the termination of the settlement, the expulsion shall result in the non-retirement pension being considered in any part of the detention. I have noticed that the Progress Party has made proposals, among others. that the prisoner should be deprived of membership in social security in the event of expulsion. The legislative proposal implies that this is what is actually and practically happening, as pension benefits are the most important part of membership for the prisoner’s own part. The benefits to which the prisoner was entitled prior to acquittal will already fall during detention under the applicable rules. Another important question concerns benefits to family members of the prisoner in the home Member State under the EEA rules. It is an underlying condition of the legislative proposal that such benefits should be stopped when expulsion decisions are in place. However, recovery of benefits already paid would not be relevant. At both of these points, the question of understanding EEA legislation is the central one, and our national rules will in any case be superseded by regulation within the EEA. However, no final conclusion has been reached as regards the relationship with the EEA, so that it may be possible to cut off membership and Norwegian benefits at an earlier date than the expulsion decision. It does not make it appropriate to lock Norwegian rules to certain interpretations. However, it will be considered to supplement the rules with a direct provision on the withdrawal of the prisoner’s membership in line with the proposal of the Progress Party. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party on the withdrawal of the right to day-care from prison, I would like to stress that all convictions, regardless of nationality, have an obligation of activity when they are in prison. This is laid down in the Penal Code, which further makes it clear that the obligation of activity can consist of work, social services, training, programmes or other activities that are suitable to combat new crime. All prisoners, regardless of their nationality, receive daily allowances when in prison. The daily allowance shall cover the daily cost of toilet articles and other daily consumption. Ordinary daily allowance is NOK 56 in 2010. It is not appropriate to exclude groups from the day-to-day arrangements as a result of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1987	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1990	Just to clarify it, and I'm going to be the first to admit that I may have misunderstood something: I therefore perceive the law, as the government says, that in the case of decisions on expulsion, you will lose service, even if you belong to Group A, for the period you are in. What happens then in cases where criminal acts have been committed, and expulsion decisions are taken, and there are several years before expulsion takes place, even after acquittal? It is still in Norway. Mulla Krekar is an example of that. Do you still earn pension entitlements after the compensation? Is it only during the atoning period that you lose your rights? Can you earn rights further in the years you wait to be transported out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e1996	The question that is raised here, I am on the standing foot not able to answer, so I will come back to that. I can't quite see which of the paragraphs of the People's Security Act those who live in Norway after an expulsion decision has been taken, without it being effective, come under, and whether you earn pension rights in that period. There I have to be allowed to come back to the questioner at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2001	So the chord change is over. Thus, the regulatory time of the morning’s meeting is over. The meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - The meeting's been cancelled. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.07. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2018	The decision continues to deal with case No. 5 on Agenda No 20. The speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2023	I just want to make a brief comment to the representative Karin Andersen's post. She mentioned the term ‘political games’ because we were initially not concerned about having the matter dealt with before the summer, and because we thought it was okay when the summer came, that it was until the autumn. This isn't about political games. The case passed the Council of State on 28 May. It was presented in Stortinget on 21 May and came to the Committee on 1 June. We had eight days to finish it so that it would repeat two treatments in Stortinget – because it was a case of law – before the summer. It seemed that the Progress Party was too short. Therefore, when making concrete, thorough legislative changes, we wanted a little more time to do more work in relation to the proposed paragraphs. And I think, with respect to reporting, that it's a little bit sought to use this kind of argument in a debate where we're initially all agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2028	Let me take this opportunity to answer a question I received from Robert Eriksson, a representative before the break, who was concerned with those who had made atonement and were given expulsion orders – whether these persons are entitled to social security and pensions in the period after the detention has ended and until expulsion. I can say, they don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2033	When I found reason to point this out, it was because the story does not start with this bill – the story starts with a Document 8 proposal from the Progress Party, so the government is asked to make the necessary legislative changes as soon as possible. When the matter was dealt with in Stortinget, the government promised to come as soon as possible. But that was not enough for the opposition – it had to be adopted as soon as possible. And what changes to the laws were then thought about, you didn't know – it shows the debate, if you go back to it. That is why it was a wish – we thought – that we should deal with this matter quickly. We agree! That's why I allow myself this little suggestion that there is a certain political game in some of these matters. And I wish that, when the government is in line with the proposals that are being made – say that we should come as quickly as possible – you could perhaps join it and wait for the treatment that the government is doing. For example, there are many difficult issues. this case, which was not clarified when the proposal for the Progress Party was promoted – and as the other opposition parties in Stortinget at the time joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2041	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 734]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2057	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2064	Since the Minister of Renewal is the Council of State in this matter, it may be appropriate to refer to a sentence in the committee’s position, which is where the Committee points out that the present legislative proposal reflects the complexity of the social security system. I have to confess that in the case-rapporteur's work on the proposition, I have had to seek expert help in trying to understand the content of the proposition and the context in which the various corrections and clarifications go into. Now, of course, it can be stated that the undersigned does not have that easily. However, I dare say that in that case I share my fate with several of my committee colleagues. It is known that the Storting represents an average of the Norwegian people, although it is hardly an absolute requirement. Consequently, I believe that the pension system is hardly accessible to the people more easily than to the people's representatives. Now, a month and a half before the introduction of a whole new pension scheme, it's natural that people wonder how they're going to set up. Therefore, they call, send SMS or e-mail to depositors, who they assume can inform them of any circumstances, so that they can make their pension choices. All freedom of choice has as well known its price. The default response is to refer to Nav, who has high preparedness in this area for the time being. But Nav does not have full clarity in all aspects either, because the Stortinget continues to deal with proposals for changes, corrections and clarifications that affect our pension conditions. Some of these decisions are to be made today. This applies, for example: the pension basis. For information I feel empowered to give the following statement, which is not sucked by my own breast, but which I will believe hold for every right: It is proposed in the proposal that social security periods up to and including the last calendar year which was the same as the last one should be taken into account when calculating the pension in accordance with the proposals for paragraphs 3 to 5 of the new seventh paragraph and paragraphs 20 to 10 of the new third paragraph of the Social Security Act. [[at the time of withdrawal]] Social security for subsequent periods is included in the old-age pension with effect from January of the year following the existence of the tax equation for the current year, see paragraphs 19 to 13, first paragraph, and paragraphs 20 to 17, first and third paragraphs of the Social Security Act. For the conversion, the ratios/divisional figures are used to ensure that the individual does not lose weight to it. Because social security benefits are earned on the basis of living time between 16 and 66 years of age, most people will have full social security time, even if only periods up to the last calendar year of the year have been compared, are taken into account when calculating the pension. [[40 years]] For these, the proposals will not have any practical significance. Just, which is also the field down in the setting! Faced with such obvious explanations, I feel committed to the same situation as the author Diderik Fromm Jr. in the Norwegian Dustebund, who in one case exclaimed: Before I thought more than I understood. Now I don't understand what I mean. The purpose of the new pension scheme was, among other things: to make it easier and more understandable. In a situation and in a period when we are going to combine old and new pension systems, we are likely to experience that old and new regulations are making a difference. In particular, the sensible coordination rules to be implemented as intended on the date on which the new pension scheme is fully phased in. However, it will take time. This means, of course, that we need to keep an eye on simplifications and improvements – and to hunt for them. The changes in laws we are making today are hardly the last in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2083	We are dealing with an adaptation of the new pension reform and new rules, as the rapporteur was concerned. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that complexity is relatively large – the case is difficult, and not least it is inconclusive. I think it is very gratifying that representatives from the government parties now realise that. As early as 2007, when we were dealing with a new retirement pension, these relationships actually signed – that this would be impossible to understand, precisely because you started at the wrong end, starting with an old age pension, and that all the other laws that were to be adapted to the basic framework of the pension system itself were not clarified, not confirmed, nor evaluated. Then a consequence of that would actually be the complete chaos, which is something you can also see in more cases. We continue to have many transitional arrangements, and it will be exciting to see how the future Nav computer systems – for there are major challenges – will be able to deal with these transitional arrangements. Especially for the age groups from 1953 up to 1962, where two pension systems are to be merged, and where there is a gradual overlap, it will be useful to see how this can be effectively solved, and how these systems, which are not currently talking, should start to talk together in a more complicated transitional legislation. In addition, we see that no permanent legislation has been put in place for new disability benefits. For short-term benefits, there is no permanent legislation in place, so there are still many open questions. I am pleased with the recognition that the rapporteur also made, that he no longer fully understands what he means. It's an important recognition, at least for us in the opposition, to take us further, because I think there are a lot of people in the situation that you don't fully understand the consequences of the new pension reform and the new rules. But I also registered that the representative Gullvåg in Dagbladet promised on Sunday that he would clean up. I then wonder, What shall Gullvåg clean up, and how? What practical simplifications, what changes to any transitional rules, what progress should be made in the matters we are discussing, in order to achieve the results for which the representative Gullvåg said he would take a break, in the daily newspaper on Sunday? In any case, the post recently made by the representative does not testify to any cleaning. I guess that's more evidence that you recognize that you don't have a complete overview of this. You should have wanted to move the pieces back to the start and start again and do it in the right order. With that, I just want to announce that the Progress Party has been the only party that has gone against new pension reform. We naturally also vote against the proposals that have been put forward here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2098	The representative Robert Eriksson then pointed out that the Progress Party was voting against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2101	With effect from 1 January, flexible withdrawals of old-age pensions from the age of 62 are possible. Pensions are adjusted by their standard of living and annual pension regulation is detached from the basic amount of the population’s fear. Pensioners will continue to be assured of an increase in purchasing power. In the early years of 2011, new age pensioners will have their pension calculated in accordance with current earnings rules. The first payments of the old-age pension earned under new vesting rules, i.e.: all-year earnings, from 2016. The work on pension reform has now been ongoing for several years. The budget adopted the law on new old-age pensions in spring 2009 and later adopted new rules for the private sector AFP and necessary adaptations to the rules on pensions for surviving spouses, dependants and old-age pensions in certain institutional stays. In implementing the new rules, it has proved necessary to make certain clarifications, additions and creations in the legislation already adopted. This proposal therefore proposes certain regulatory adjustments to the rules to be applied from the new year. In addition, it is proposed to amend the pension rules for surviving spouses. Today’s AFP and surviving spouse’s pension are mutually exclusive benefits, both of which are pensions for living. From 2011 onwards, the private sector AFP has been transformed into a lifelong commitment to the old age pension. The flexible age pension rules include, inter alia: that you can stop the socket at any time. However, the withdrawal of the AFP cannot be reversed and will continue even if the retirement pension is suspended. Persons who no longer have an old age pension may be entitled to a pension for a surviving spouse. It would be unreasonable if the ongoing AFP recommendation, which could amount to small annual amounts, were to stand in the way of his or her surviving rights. We therefore propose that the AFP premium should not deter the right to a pension as a surviving spouse, but that it be regulated as an income which should be included in the income test of the survivor's pension in the same way as, among others, it should be. income from work, sickness benefits and daily allowances. I am very pleased that the majority supports the proposals. Thus, we are an important step forward in putting in place the necessary adaptations to a flexible age pension from 2011. I have registered Gullvåg's comments on complexity and a perhaps somewhat demanding legal language. My department, where I am normal, is responsible for «Clear language of the state». I think in many areas we could also work a little bit with the language in some of our laws, so it could be easier to deal with them afterwards. So I'm going to take those comments further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2118	It sounds reassuring, the president thinks. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2136	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2145	The proposal we are considering today has been assessed a number of times earlier, both in the 2004 Labour Law Committee report, in the context of the government’s 2006–2007 Annual Report on Senior Policy and at the latest in the context of changes to the Labour Environment Act in 2008–2009. In the same period, the Stortinget has taken decisions on modernising public health, where one of the objectives is that people stay longer in working life, as people live longer and generally have better health. As a result of changes in the Law on Social Security, the Stortinget has taken a decision to raise the pension limit from 70 to 75 years. In all other ways, these reforms have provided strengthening incentives for older people to stay longer in work than the statutory age limit for the cessation of employment without cause other than the age of 70. At the time of the examination, the Committee shared its view on whether age should be an independent basis for the termination of a job. The majority believe that it should, and indicates that ‘multiple considerations need to be weighed against each other’. That's absolutely right. This is the case with most of the questions that we as the people's representatives are dealing with. It is therefore strange that on this issue there are so many reasons to consider that it must therefore be left to the social partners once they have recorded their opinions. It is we, the Stortinget, who is the legislative authority, and in the light of all the investigations and assessments we have now made for six, seven years, as well as the intention of new pension reform, the opposition believes that we have enough knowledge of the question to take a step further. The minority in the Committee will therefore either completely or at least eliminate the age limit. For the Right, we want a work environment law that emphasises flexibility and applies to all, regardless of age, gender, competence or whether a job is in the private or public sector. We will also work for this. In dealing with this issue, however, we have chosen to extend one hand to the majority, so that at least as a compromise, we can get more equal treatment for senior citizens in the labour market – therefore the proposal to raise the age limit to 75 years, so that it corresponds at least to the pension limit in the social security system. The Progress Party, which the draft representative proposes to remove the age limit, supports this compromise. The Christian People's Party, which also has its own proposal, has given signals that they support this subsidiaryly. The employer’s side is concerned about removing the limit because it is then left with no means of terminating the job without so-called factual justification. This can be read more as a desire for a more flexible labour-environment law than a genuine desire to discriminate against people according to their age. The employee's side is also skeptical, but I'm actually a little bit more uncertain about what the reason is. It may be seen that removing the age limit will necessarily have to pave the way for a more flexible labour-environment law. We can speculate on that. However, age limits in working life, as a system, are based on the principle of unsustainable notion that groups of workers as a whole cannot continue to work beyond a given age. Such a system does not take into account large individual variations in physical and mental health. Nor does the system take into account the fact that the requirements for the service, the content of the job and the nature of the work can change significantly over time. We in the opposition have been willing to give the government time to take an extra round with the social partners to make sure what it thinks. That is why we have proposed harmonisation of the age limit with the pension limit. This should probably be part of the government's membership, not least because the government itself, in the pension reform, justifies working and earning pensions up to 75 years, among other things. compensating for a lower level of service provision. I take this up with me the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2171	The representative of Sylvi Graham has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2174	Everyone in this room probably agrees that one of our major challenges in the future is the growing need for labour to come. We have to get more people to work. This applies to those who do not get jobs today, but who will and can work. It is also about getting more of us to work longer. The government will stimulate more people to work with a number of instruments. We're making a new miscarriage reform, which is going to make it easier to combine work with social security. We have to make working life more inclusive. We have put in place a new and more offensive IA agreement. We're going to create an employment strategy to include more disabled people in the workforce, and we need to stimulate people to work longer. The latter is done with the new pension reform at the bottom, and not least with an active senior policy at company level. The last — how much an active senior policy means — there are countless examples of this. On a voluntary basis, attitudes and simple measures can easily stimulate older people to grow longer. A very good example of this is the company Moelven BaudModule in Ringsacks in the county I come from. They have completely reversed the trend. Five years ago, all 62-year-olds dropped out of AFP. Fresh people, among them very many active birch legs, disappeared from the early retirement enterprise. This felt Moelven was too wrong. They decided to reverse the trend. Five years later, they're all, most of them for another moment, because Moelven simply asked his veterans, what are we going to do to make you work longer? More holidays, black seniors – and three extra vacation weeks came in place. People said they had felt a pressure that they had to leave when they turned 62, while now the group leader was very much talking about him wanting them to be. I think I did a lot of that, said club leader Kåre Kastbakken to Hamar Arbeiderblad when they wrote about how Moelven had turned the trend. I think Kåre is absolutely right. It's incredibly important that every business and management takes their responsibility, puts energy into making the seniors become. Very many places the relatively simple grip is going to be. It's more about being seen and valued than about heads and ears. It must be stated that the seniors are a desired and necessary resource at each workplace. Then, of course, the state must stimulate the same trend as we do, among other things. do with the measures I mentioned earlier. The problem today is not that workers are left in the head of the upper limit of the Working Environment Act. Taking into account the level of real retirement age, there is no excruciating need to change age limits now. The boundaries are not there to prevent people from working, but to ensure people a decent departure from work. There is no immediate obstacle to ensuring the right of people to stand longer in work or to the ability of society to stimulate it. The rule allows employment to cease, but the employee and the employer may agree to continue their employment beyond the age of 70. So the rule doesn't imply any mandatory departure age. We had a thorough review of this in 2009. We introduced a rule on alerting the cessation of work to stimulate discussions about staying longer. There are now processes that make it natural to get back to the problem in a short time, and there is actually a point that none of the social partners have expressed the desire to do anything about this now. In fact, for us in the Workers' Party, it is important, even in labour matters, to listen to the social partners, as opposed to what the Right has announced. As long as no one has asked for it, as long as there are processes going on, which makes it natural to come back to it, and as long as we're not there today that the age limit seems to close for a real rise in retirement age, we choose to wait. But we want to take the processes and listen to the social partners, because that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2191	I think that today we are dealing with an important legislative amendment proposal in many ways, which is both in principle, and which gives some clear signals that you actually want to bet on what you say: a good senior policy and to facilitate that older people can stand longer in the workplace. For me, this becomes a little illogical. Time and again, this room has talked about all the benefits of the new pension reform. Actually, I don't see so many advantages, but it's claimed to be a lot of advantages. One of the benefits is that you can actually stand until you're 75 years old and earn a pension. Then you can at the same time risk getting the message: Sorry, you don't get to work when you're more than 70 years old. There's a logical flaw that you should do something about. The opposition has now assembled and is trying to do something about it. The promotion party initially does not want an upper age limit for cancelling people from the labour market. It must be the individual's ability to work and to assess one's own health according to the job you have, which is taken into account, and not a particular age. I also record that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee says that there are many good reasons for reconsidering the legislation. I record that Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen in May, the day before we promoted this proposal in Stortinget, said in the NRK Dagsrevyen that when we start the new pension reform, it is quite obvious that we will also change the paragraph on an upper age limit of 70 years. Then I don't understand the representative Tritenbergstien's argument, when she says that we should wait to make changes, that we should let the processes run – but now we've had processes on this for the last five to six years. How many years are these processes to run before any changes are made? Do you have to wait until 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014? Actually, I think we've done some good research on this. The social partners – yes, I agree that it is important that the social partners are allowed to make their contributions in this area, but they have done so every time I have been treated in the past. We then know where the parties stand in this matter, as the case-rapporteur also pointed out when we last dealt with the Working Environment Act, in 2008-2009. Then the parties said clearly. The parties could also – if you had been waiting for a paycheck, if that's what needs to be done, that's why the parties are going to dictate the changes in the laws of the Stortinget, and the government is a party to the paychecks – have agreed to this both in the 2009 wage settlement and in the 2010 wage settlement. But one has chosen not to do so. The most important thing for me is that it is right that according to the law, it is not, as the representative of the Trettebergstuen points out, a mandatory departure limit. Let me refer to what's going on in a lot of other industries, among other things. in the insurance industry, from which I have my own past, and which I am not very proud of in terms of policy in this area. There has just been a case both in the media and in the legal system in relation to Mutuals, who cancel employees at 67 years of age. The Ministry has said that they have the right and the right to do so – and have been the only witness in that case. It disappoints me since you have a government that says you should bet on a good senior policy in the future. I think this is going to turn it upside down, and when I hear the financial industry say that this is a ‘principal’ thing for them, to be able to send people home when they are 67 years old, I think it's a policy that belongs to antiquity, and that makes it even more precarious, so that we in the Grand Duchy can say that these limits we are now lifting and moving on. Then I see that the time is up, and I end up there. And the proposal was well taken up by the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2206	The President can confirm that it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2209	Just a little linguistic thing: the big thing has not, therefore, adopted any modernized people's fear. It was a proposal presented in a NOU and substantial changes have been made to that proposal. So it's not right to use that notion of the new age pension in the population that we've adopted. We are discussing age limits today. It's a difficult topic, because there are some people who need a lot of age limits, and some people don't need them. There are examples at both ends, where people get worn out and worn out before the age limit, and where some are spreading far, far up in the years. A number of schemes with different age limits have been put in place to protect people, and there are also different types of early retirement schemes to protect people, and there are special provisions in relation to different professions. It is clear that this is a need to look at continuously, and therefore both sides of industry have some skepticism and some resistance to changing this, because there are different considerations to be taken into account. The new pension system is such that it is possible to balance the life- expectancy adjustment by working longer. I'm probably inclined to agree with those who say there's a certain logic that the age limit corresponds to the ability you have to earn extra points in the population's privacy, i.e. up to 75 years. Nor do I perceive that neither the government nor the government parties have rejected the fact that there may be a solution in the future, but there is a need for a good process that makes the social partners feel more comfortable with it than they have now. And it's also true that the representative of Trettebergstien mentions, that the major problems of exclusion and exclusion from work lie in completely different age groups and in very different times of life. I know that there are 70-year-olds who have been abandoned with this law in hand, and that of course it can feel terribly unfair and a problem, but the big challenge that we have before us is to enable far more people to get into work any longer – and not least to get into the world of work. That's why SV wants to pay more attention to that work right now. But we look forward to dealing with these issues in the future too, but then you have to be able to have both good cooperation with the social partners, who are going to practice this, and to balance the different considerations that are being set up. I agree with Eriksson from the Progress Party when he says that it is difficult to accept such an attitude as the financial industry has towards employees of 67 years – that it is okay to get rid of them. So this is about getting away from attitudes that are based on discrimination in the workplace, whether in the case of older people, or in other groups that are not viewed as being competent, but are assessed on some of these characteristics, which have less and less to do with being able to do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2225	Norway needs more labour, and we need to use a number of tools to do so. Several measures are needed to provide this workforce. A number of those who are out of work must enter. We need labour immigration, and we need to get people to work longer. It's a goal that the real retirement age should be increased, and we see a happy development in this area. The new pension system will stimulate people to stay longer in work. The commitment to an inclusive working life is another important measure. Finally, I would like to highlight a strict working environment law such as: ensuring a high level of protection of employment, as a central measure. The minority wants to remove the provision in the Working Environment Act § 15-13(a). The majority do not support this, but they are – I would say – not strictly reprehensible either. I believe that the consideration of the employer and the consideration for a decent termination of the employment relationship are relevant arguments against removing the age limit. At the same time, a logic against the pension scheme is a good argument for removing this age limit. Then it's worth saying that it's not like you have to quit people when they're 70. On the contrary, through the debate, we must promise that older workers are a resource for business. I believe that it is essential not to adopt the proposal is that it should be reviewed with the social partners, as others from the government parties have pointed out. Whether the conclusion is a continuation of existing legislation, an increase in age or the elimination of age levels, we will be asked to consider. I want to challenge the minority to clarify one thing, and that's whether it's just this provision they want to change in chapter 15 of the Working Environment Act or whether they also want to make other changes to that chapter. The solutions of the right-hand side can be tempting when we get them served piece by piece and divided. Then is my challenge to the right: Is it completely excluded for the Right and the Advance Party to weaken the general employment protection? I think that is a relevant question when you hear how big words are used in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2238	Being allowed to work means a lot to each of us. It's about quality of life, and it's about being allowed to contribute to society. Senior policy is important – to be able to look at seniors as a resource, that older people’s policies are not just about sick homes, but about what we are talking about today – about being able to improve their quality of life by being able to work longer if you want. You can also see it in an economic perspective. All parties have a goal of making people stand longer in work. Retirement reform is one of the tools that, as many people have done, is designed to make it pay longer to work. It's one of the carrots that's going to make people see that it's an economic value. One sees that from today until 2050 there will be a double of people over 65 years of age. At my start in working life, there are four people working per pensioner, and when I am 65 and, if necessary, a pensioner – which I hope I am not – there will be two people working for my pension. So it's a half of the number of people working for the pension, as well as the number of pensioners going to increase. It is worrying, and it shows the need for change. The pension reform is important in that context, but when you know that the lifestyle adjustment is in place, it's an interesting perspective that for my case it might be that I have to work until I'm 70 years old to get the same pension that I would get today at 67 years, while one today is discussing a limit in working life of 70 years. I think a lot is going to happen to exactly what we're discussing today, before maybe it becomes relevant for me to become a retired person, but I think it's an interesting perspective. What I think is important is that senior policy generally improves. In this year's government budget, several special arrangements for seniles are removed. At the same time as one wants people to stay longer in work, many people feel that it is not politically facilitated in the same way. Raising the age limit could be a positive signal. When I was a county representative in Aust-Agder, I went into special arrangements specifically for teachers to get them to work longer. We gave them longer free, higher pay and more courses. The result was that more people wanted to stay longer in work. The kind of action I think is important in order to be able to succeed with the stated goal we all want to achieve. I notice that the government wants to come back with a hearing note during the spring of 2011 with a wide review of the short-term benefits legislation for people over 62 years of age. I think that's good. However, I also think there is a need for a more thorough review of the entire senior policy and various measures that may stimulate longer work, but also perhaps stimulate employers to put more into work. But back to the matter we are discussing here today, about age limits. Me and the Christian People's Party believe that it would be appropriate to have an upper age limit, given that a person who is in work is guaranteed to end his career in a worthy way. That is why our proposal is to increase the age limit to 72. In the election campaign, I thought it was an «McCain proposal», because then McCain was 72 years old, and it would be interesting if he had got to leave when he was 70. You don't have to leave now, but it could be a risk of being kicked. I would like to inform you that the Christian People's Party will support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2257	The President interprets this to the point where the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2261	The question of age limits in working life, which has been raised by many in this Chamber, concerns many different aspects. We live longer, and we have better health than before. Many of us are therefore able to work and want to work beyond the current retirement age of 67 years. For this reason, some workers may experience the 70-year age limit as discriminatory because it may prevent further participation in the labour market. In addition, society is increasingly in need of labour. On the other hand, one of the reasons for the 70-year rule is that it should facilitate a decent termination of the employment of older workers. And also, at a more general level, a way of organizing our labour market. I would like to stress that the 70-year rule of the day does not prevent the employee and the employer from agreeing that the employment will continue after the employee reaches the age of 70, but the employee has no right to remain in the job. The government is concerned that there should be good and inclusive employment for the seniors, but the new pension reform is extensive and raises many questions that need to be resolved, not only the age limit of the labour environment law, but also among others. adaptation of private pension schemes to new social security. The last 70-year rule of the Working Environment Act was assessed in the context of Ot.prp. No 54 for 2008-2009. Then the Ministry concluded as follows: ‘The new pension scheme has been identified as one of the reasons why changes to the 70-year rule of the Working Environment Act should be considered. The Ministry aims to return to this issue when work on changes in the age limits of the labour force is otherwise clarified in the context of the pension reform.» A new pension scheme enters into force on 1 January 2011 and there may be many good reasons to reconsider the age limit of 70 years in the Working Environment Act. For the time being, there is an investigation under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, such as: assesses the performance regime of private-sector defined benefit schemes against the new pension reform. Departure age must also be seen in the context of this work. Age limits are an area where there are many and sometimes differing views, which was clearly identified in the consultation round prior to the drafting of the labour-environment rules on age limits. In my opinion, age limits in the labour market are a complex issue which should be reviewed in cooperation with the social partners and other stakeholder organisations before any changes are made to the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2282	I note that all the speeches in the debate have focused on all the positive aspects by changing the age limit, i.e. removing it or increasing it. But at the same time, there is a majority in this Chamber who will vote against what you have argued you are in favour of. When can we expect the government to present concrete legislative amendments in this area, which are aimed at either removing or increasing the age limit of the day – age determination – in the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2289	As I said in my post, the age limit affects many aspects, and it has been stated earlier in this room today that there are quite complex rules we have to do with a new pension reform. We're going to have new short-term benefits, and we're going to have rules for occupational retirement provision in the private sector. In our opinion, it is natural to go through the various changes to the laws here before starting a job to look at the provisions of the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2294	I also record that the Council of State in its statement points to all the positive aspects by making changes, either increasing or removing the age rule, and there are no representatives who have pointed out any negative aspects of increasing it. Can the Council of State give me some examples of what negative elements are opposed to possibly making such a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2299	I have experienced that more people in the Chamber in this debate have said that there are different concerns that need to be balanced against each other. The possibility for workers to be given a decent leave is a consideration to be taken into account when considering any changes to the Working Environment Act. Of course, we will take this into account in our further work when we discuss the matter with the various organisations in the world of work. But I think that should also be an important element of the political debate we are going to have on the issue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2304	I am pleased that the Council of State reports that one should come back to this issue, and that there may be many good reasons for reconsidering the 70-year age limit in the Working Environment Act. And then the representative Andersen and the representative Pollestad have also stated that there is some logic in the opposition proposal. I feel like you're standing in a spagate. I hear the Council of State say that the 70th anniversary is to get a worthy departure from work. I'm asking the Council of State to explain to me what's more worth at 70 than 75.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2311	What you set as the age limit here will always be demanding – if you meet 70, 72 or 75 years of age. We have a rule in today's work environment law that says 70 years, we are in the midst of extensive reforms related to our pensions, we have not finished reviewing all the benefits and all the different schemes in the law that are related to the new pension reform. Therefore, we believe that it makes sense to maintain the current 70-year limit and take time to assess this in a broader context at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2316	I have to say that I am not surprised perhaps, but at least satisfied that the government party is so willing to look at the matter, because I think that is right. From this point of view, I also thought that the governing party could vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal, which is only about extending the age limit to 72 years. Now I don't know when the 70th anniversary came, unfortunately, but I guess life has increased since that time. In this way, perhaps 72 years should be a fair revision, at least at first, without such a review being necessary. But that's not what I'm going to ask the Council of State. What I'm interested in is that one goes deeper into what I'm talking about in my post as well, simply a more active senior policy. I have noticed that the government has reported more reviews of various areas, but I cannot see that they have notified anything about senors. So my question is simply whether the Council of State can come back with an own message or whether this is part of the message about the working environment that is notified in the spring of 2011, or in another own form?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2323	I agree that focusing on the seniors and the seniors' place in the workplace is important. So I also think one of the most important things now is to increase your retirement age, and then it's not the oldest we have the biggest challenges with. That's why IA objective 3 is one of the most important things we're working on, which the government has a lot of pressure on and follows up. Making arrangements for more people to stay longer in the workplace is one of the most important things we can do. Fortunately, the government employers sector is one of the areas we have actually succeeded in. We have the ability to increase the age of departure by 1.1 years. We're working on a lot of measures to get the seniors to do more work. My department has recently conducted a six-hour trial for seniors – now that we didn't have the effect we thought. But we're working on a lot of measures. Part Three of the IA Agreement is the most important tool we have to get more seniors to work longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2332	I've noticed that when there's something the government is against, but they all understand that it's a good idea, it's suddenly very complicated and difficult. It's a standard formula. Then it's hard, and there's different considerations that need to be weighed against each other and like that. I still haven't been able to grasp what kind of considerations it is on the one hand. What I'm asking is, the Council of State says that one of the reasons is the consideration of a worthy departure. I should like to hear the Council of State describe a little bit more why it's a worthy departure to get fired because you've reached a certain age. If the Council of State could elaborate on what she thinks is worthy of it, it would have been fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2338	What makes it worth taking off is that it applies to everyone, and you don't have to give any special reason to stop when you're 70 years old. An assessment of the characteristics of the individual is not required. There's a rule that applies to everyone. By doing so, you do not need to be tested for the characteristics of your employee. That's what I'm adding that it's worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2343	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2348	I think this case shows that there is little connection between what the government says they have as a goal, and what they want to facilitate is going to happen. When it is mentioned that it is important for older people to have a decent end to their working life, I fully agree with that. Older people should be stimulated to work, i.e. they must be stimulated, and be allowed, to remain in the labour market if possible. Unfortunately, it is not possible for everyone today. That's not what Anette Triettebergstuen said, that employers are so very good at. There may be some private ones, there may be some in the state, but the municipalities are at least not in the case of real estate agencies. The committee has received letters from a firmer who is very concerned that when he reaches the age of 70, he loses the agreement with the municipality. He loses his 1,700 patients, but has the full right to continue practicing. He is not considered unfit to be a doctor, the doctors are allowed to practise beyond 70 years, but they are no longer allowed to accept patients who have been covered by public expenditure. They're only allowed to accept private patients. Now we also know that municipalities need a high level of competence in health professionals. They should need a lot of games. It has been criticised that most doctors work in hospitals. Instead of taking care of the doctors you have, the doctors who are fully competent to work with patients, they are cancelled because of the 70-year rule. Is it a worthy end to a long medical practice to have to lose its entire patient base and perhaps have to seek new patients who have to pay privately? So that is the government's policy. This probably also applies to many other occupational groups. We know that older people are healthier, they often have a high level of competence, they have a lot of experience and much to contribute, and it's not worth getting laid off a job and maybe having to look for something new or start their own practice just because you've passed 70 years. It's very bad that the government can't agree to this proposal now, because it's actually the Storting that's going to sit and make decisions and not the social partners. Of course, the social partners must have the right to speak, the right to participate and negotiate, but at some point the Storting must put down their feet. This case is over-mature. It should have been treated a long time ago. As long as we have a retirement benefit of 75 years, this should not even be a question, it should have been a matter of course that it should have been implemented without this case coming up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2363	I just want to encourage the opposition not to look so dark on things. Here I think the time is working for change. But I also want to say that there is no one today who has proposed removing all age limits. So it's a question of whether it's worse to be told when you're 70 than when you're 75, or when you're 72. You will always find single examples of someone who will experience such a situation when we operate at all with age limits. Then someone thinks you shouldn't have it. I think you should have it somewhere. And it can be a logic that, as long as you earn pension credits for your old age, you should also be allowed to stand in the workplace. It's a kind of logic that I understand. But I also understand that it is a good idea when we are going to deal with employment issues, as far as possible, to have an agreement with the social partners. There is also a long tradition in Norway for this, and it has proved to be sustainable both economically and politically, and has produced very good results. We believe that from SV is a good reason to be able to spend a little longer time on a question that is difficult, and that has many pages, but which I am absolutely sure we will see changes in, if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2370	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 737]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2386	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2395	It is an important theme that representatives Røe Isaksen, Graham, Höie, Sjøli and Røbekk Nørve address, namely involuntary part-time. Involuntary part-time is a serious problem for those affected. This means insecurity of income, but also of which other rights are acquired, for example: unemployment or when you are retired. For society, this is the waste of labour and abuse of human resources when we go into a time when we need all the hands and heads we can get in productive work. In this context, there is reason to mention the government's contribution to the draft government budget, the 25 million. kr that was set aside for a three-year commitment to pilot projects for alternative working time schemes and to disseminate knowledge and solutions that other enterprises can also use to create more full-time jobs. There is also reason to mention in this debate other important issues such as: the trade union movement has been included, which may be appropriate and important instruments, namely the annual obligation of consultation with trustees and any right to full-time. The majority of the Committee considers that the provisions and enforcement of the provisions of the Working Environment Act on working time are important in order to ensure an inclusive working life in which workers can remain in work for a long time. There is a high degree of flexibility in the current provisions to take account of both users and employees. The provisions on major deviations from normal working hours in the course of the tour are currently managed by agreements between the employer and the employees’ organisations centrally. The Committee has carried out consultations involving the social partners. Here it was different views, but I have noticed in particular the employee organisations' observation that the balance of power of individual businesses can be locally distorted. Many trustees and members will be able to experience it as a necessary safety valve that the main organisations have to approve a change beyond 10 hours. Governments have announced a review of the issue raised about alternative turns in the Single European Act on working conditions and the working environment that will be presented in the spring of 2011. In such a review, it is important to identify the scope of the issue raised in the proposal for a representative. The aim of society for an inclusive working life where more people can stand longer in work, health, environment and safety issues, as well as for the stability of users, must be central to such a review. Furthermore, it is also necessary to clarify the competences required for the proper enforcement of current rules. Recognising that there may be important reasons against each other and that it may be difficult to find a proper balance, the majority of the Council of State asks the State to come back to the Grand Duchy with a review of the legislation and the practice of current provisions on alternative rotation in the Working Environment Act. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2416	In May we got a look in today's business really a pretty good insight into the conditions that are behind – I would assume – the proposal and the matter we are dealing with here today. I can't quite understand the logic from the way it works today. When employees, local trustees, the employer and users at the hospital in Hordaland were satisfied with the new alternative arrangements – they are guaranteed a better offer and more leisure time, and there is a better opportunity for employees to plan their working day, but also their time with the family – I find it difficult to understand that at a higher level you can go in and ‘overdestimate’ and say that no, that is not how you can do it. I admit it. In my mind, it's important to find good, flexible, locally adapted schemes. We know that in today's labour market, as it works, we actually need more flexibility. We're different. Businesses have evolved relatively considerably in recent years. We are different as humans, and we have different needs and different desires. I also believe that we should try to facilitate a working life that makes this more flexible and can meet as many of these wishes as possible, which both employees and employers initially agree on. Then I also recorded the recordings that came to the hearing in the committee on 15 October. I have also registered a number of arguments that this could lead to almost severe conditions, exploiting the workers through more stringent and more difficult rotational arrangements, which means that today's employees are unable to cope, and that employers are almost exploiting the labour force. It's a rhetoric that I don't understand, and that I think is intended to be used, because here we're talking about local trustees as well as employees and employers. Then we must remember that the very basis of the proposal in the vote promoted by the Progress Party and the Right is according to the provisions of the Working Environment Act in Sections 12 to 10. If you think that this will have very unfortunate effects, it must also mean that you believe that the provisions of the Working Environment Act in this area are not good enough. In that case, the majority parties should have tabled an amendment to the Working Environment Act, and not just annexed the proposal to the Protocol. So here I feel in a lot of ways that it's basically only a pedestal that's going on, and that you've let yourself be overrun by the central part of the trade movement, which wants, naturally, to have full control of how this is done, and not to let that control down to the local level in its own organization. I don't think that's something the Storting is going to put in the lead. I rather think Stortinget should try to facilitate flexible, good arrangements, which all the parties initially want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2429	An overall increase agrees that Norwegian working life should be characterised by proper conditions, and that everyone who wants to work full-time should have the best possible prerequisites to do just that. We also want a more inclusive working life, where sick leave is low, and where money is used for service production and value creation. Most likely, we agree on the objective of public-funded well-being: it should be optimal for users. When agreement on objectives really doesn't separate us so much from each other, it's quite difficult for me to understand why we're not able to draw exchangers on experiences that bring us closer to that goal. The thing we have to deal with here is one of those things. It shows services where we can make users more satisfied. It shows a working time scheme that gives employees more total leisure time and provides for lower sick leave. We even have the lucky effect that it is much easier for the employer to plan, so that unwanted part-time can almost be gone – and this is only based on practical arrangements in the individual workplace, without any political decisions or public funds. We even – where it has been tried – have a local consensus that this is a good solution, which both workers, employers and not least users and relatives are very satisfied with. Nevertheless, government parties are opposed to the proposal of the representative for a careful approximation of the Working Environment Act so that alternative forms of rotation can be established. In order to recapitulate what is at issue, today’s tour schedules with strong working time constraints have more problems. They contribute to a waste of hard labour. This results in greater use of part-time jobs than desired, which may help to make the care sector, for example, a less attractive job and may even impair the quality of the services to be provided. The rules of rotation also make it difficult for leaders to get the tour up from week to week. Many people are on duty, and along with high sick leave, much of the time helps to summon extra guards and temporary workers. Government parties point out that the government will present a new review of the Working Environment Act in spring 2011. It is well and good that we finally get such a review, but what this matter is about is to change one small detail of the government that reversed after the 2005 elections, namely who has the competence to approve deviations from the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act. The proposal is that the Labour Inspectorate should have the decisive word, not the central employee organisations. For this reason, central employee organisations do not listen to their local trustees. In the hearing, we almost got the impression that there was no trust from the central management that they could see the whole thing locally. The whole thing? So they're locally working on the questions every day? It is then those locally in close contact with users who see how it affects their well-being and care when there is great change in working conditions? And that's when they locally see the whole thing as it happens to them, for example. The residents of the hospital? There are decisions that are taken close to the users of welfare services, which are those that are most accurate in the provision of good services. There should therefore be a sufficient requirement that formal discussions on deviations in working time arrangements take place locally and that overall assessment and responsibility for any approval of deviations be added to the Labour Inspectorate. The assessment by the Labour Inspectorate shall pay particular attention to the local agreement between the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2450	The President thinks she must ask the representative to take up the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, because the representative Eriksson did not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2453	The president has a very good idea there. I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2458	The representative of Sylvi Graham has taken up the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2461	I think I have to draw the opposition's attention to the fact that the majority's proposal is to attach the proposal to the Minutes, and that we are saying that we should look at these questions in the future. That means you haven't rejected the problem. The reason why we have limitations in working time is because of both health and well-being. And that's important, because we have a lot of research that shows that working very long increments and having very much uncomfortable working hours is dangerous to health. It's even so that the frequency of accidents increases a lot when you work very long sessions. The professions we are now talking about are the professions that already have very serious health problems. It's these consolation-and-carry jobs, where people work their health long before retirement. Therefore, there is reason to be reluctant to go into schemes that could further increase this burden and there is reason to have general provisions limiting long-term increases to what is absolutely necessary. But it is within the law of the day possible to allow such working time, and it is done. It is done in the care delivery system, for example: also in the case of user-controlled assistant. There is the main consideration of the user that is the most important. I have also met both employees and users who have been very satisfied with such other arrangements. So there has been law, and it shows that today's system is not impossible either. I have a much greater sense of the argument for this proposal if we put the users in the center, those who need some more stable adults in their lives, than I have if this is to be a very important tool to reduce the use of part-time. The full-time and part-time solution may not be for many more to work shifts up to 12 hours or ‘oil tour’. It doesn't have to be organized like that, and it's not going to be. I want to draw attention to a place that I have visited, which has solved parts of the full-time and part-time problem – and now I am asking the representatives from the Right Pointed Ears, because it is a Right-Chaired municipality called Harstad. They have nursing homes that have introduced a tour where you go three days on and three days off. There they have the weekly working time down and the daily working time up a little, but it does not exceed eight hours. There they have been sick leave and job breaks up, the pensioners are at work, and the users are satisfied. So there's a lot of solutions to this that don't bring such pressures that this topic we're now dealing with can lead to. I would like to remind you once again that it is possible to have this system within the current legislation, that it is neither impossible nor illegal to do so, and we are going to get back to it. Then the representative Graham says that we cannot see the whole of this, and that some of the employee organisations argued in such a way that the representative Graham did not understand. But I understand the argument. It's about some of what's called the honey traps. It's about being young and strong, newly educated and engaged, you can easily work too much and get sick. It's because you're engaged, you're interested in the job, it's an exciting job, and you're an obligating person who wants to do this job well. There's a lot of these, and there's a lot of people working like that in other industries as well. And unfortunately, you don't see anything before you meet the wall. That's why it's important to have regulations, and that sometimes there's someone else who says that this is actually a little bit more than a human being can handle. This is why we regulate working time in such a way that the majority should be able to keep their health and preferably to the retirement age – and as we have discussed earlier today: perhaps long after it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2480	As the Council pointed out in its reply to the Committee, this is a matter of many questions and many considerations to be taken into consideration. On the one hand, workers must provide in the workplace, both to customers, to patients and to users. At the same time, the work situation shall be arranged in such a way that it is possible for workers to have good health, time for a family life and income from which to live. Today's work environment law is a law that regulates working time with the aim of protecting workers. Strict rules prevent workers from being congested, which in turn prevents sickness and disability. We know the cost to society as well as to individuals when sick leave increases and the number of disabled people increases. That is why we want to protect against restrictive legislation in order to prevent developments in which more people become ill and debilitated as a result, for example. an unsustainable rotational arrangement. At the same time, some of the professional groups with a tour set are low-wage professions. I am thinking in particular of health and care professions. A revolution conversion e.g. to the so-called North Sea Tour, with long periods of work, followed by long periods of free time, may provide a low-paid incentive to take other paid work during free periods to specify on their income. This could lead to a heavy load, which in turn could lead to long-term sick leave and, if necessary, disability. This is neither the employer nor the individual nor society earned. During the hearing, the YS pointed out that sometimes they are asked to approve schemes which, in their view, are manifestly irresponsible. According to the YS, these requests are promoted partly by pressure from the employer, partly by the unrealistic perception of what they themselves tolerate. In my view, a reform of the Working Environment Act, in line with the proposal currently in place, could lead to more issues like this in the future. It's a development I'm skeptical of. Let me remind you that today's legislation also takes into account that, in special cases, different types of working time arrangements are necessary and that the law allows this to be resolved by local agreements, agreements between the parties central to the most extensive deviations. In my view, today's Labour Environment Act is designed in such a way that the rights of both society, employers and employees are respected. Any changes to current legislation must be made in a way that prevents us from being subjected to excessive burdens on individual employees. The representative Graham used the whole term. I believe that when we are going to discuss this kind of question, it is important to put it in as part of a broader debate. We can't discuss working life piece by piece or piece. It's just such a whole I expect us to have in this room when we're going to debate the announced growth message about working conditions and the working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2499	The question of involuntary part-time is important. It is important from an equal opportunities perspective, and it is important because it is about security around your own income and living situation. It means a lot to which the case spokesperson was concerned. It means a lot to others, too. For example, it is not difficult to imagine how one is in a situation where one should want a loan, a desire to move on in the working life, and then one still has part-time, often over a long time. Furthermore, there is waste of vulnerable and important labour force. Often, there is an involuntary part-time in the care profession, and one knows that there is a place that is eager to get more hands at work, it is in that profession. If one is able to get more full options, it will also mean a lot for that bit. For me and for the Christian People's Party it counts a lot to look at the cases and examples that are local. You can see that there are many local trade unions that open up alternative turns, that there are many added ones that are perhaps happy because they experience more contented users, because they get fewer added to do because they've got full options. And when one achieves that effect, it counts a lot for me. Therefore, I am pleased that the committee, the majority of the committee and the government party, choose not to reject the proposal, and that such a clear indication that the government will come back to the matter, and that the Council of State in its letter indicates that a wish to return to alternative turns of the message that comes in the new year. But I also have to say that I also have no problem seeing the challenges that it can be with, for example. long guards. When the representative Karin Andersen was in the honey trap, I imagine Ole Brumm stuck his head into a jar of honey and is a little too eager – a need not come outside the house once to find examples of young or older representatives who are eager to do a good job and want to work for a long time, and who may not be able to see how much power they actually have. That is why I am comfortable with the proposal being annexed to the protocol and that one comes back to the matter, because I thought it was an interesting proposal, but that one does it in a good time when the message comes in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2513	The issue of working time concerns many important considerations. Regulation of working time must seek to balance these. Activities shall be capable of running well and profitably and institutions shall be able to take care of their users. Longer working periods for employees may, for example: contribute to greater stability and continuity of treatment, which will be particularly important for some user groups. At the same time, workers shall have good working time arrangements which enable work and family life to be combined and which enable them to work for many years. In addition, working time is closely linked to wages and salaries. Long shifts, many long shifts consecutively and many night shifts may have negative health effects, both in the short and long term. It may also increase the risk of accidents and accidents at work. For example, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work has: in a literature review showing that the risk of various types of accidents increases by 100 pst. with a working time of 12 hours, compared to eight hours. Today's legislation, the extent to which deviations from the rules of the Working Environment Act on normal working hours must be agreed between the employer and employees' organisations centrally, is intended to take care of and balance these considerations. However, it is not that we can be said to have resolved once and for all on a lasting basis the demanding balances that lie behind the provisions on deviations from normal working hours in rotational work in the Working Environment Act. The debate that has taken place on this issue, including: through several articles in Today’s Business, it may be useful to review the legislation and its practice in a comprehensive way. At the same time, I think it is important to show a sobering approach to such an important and complex field of action. The Minister of Labour has commissioned Fafo to identify the scope and practice of relations between local contract proposals on working time and the actual conclusion of contracts with trade unions with the right of cancellation. The Minister of Labour receives a final report from Fafo this month. A meeting of the social partners on the report shall be held on 30 November in order to address the issue of alternative tours. The Minister of Labour has said that she will come back to Stortinget with a review of the matter in a planned progress report on working conditions and the working environment, which is scheduled to be submitted to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2527	The company that won Ferd's social entrepreneurship prize this year, won with a very simple concept. They bring up child-restraints using child-restraint institutions in meetings with municipal politicians, in the institutions. Dialogue, simply. It's something so simple. The ultimate desire of these child-restraints when asked what they want is that those who work there may be present for longer periods of time. That's what this case is about. That's the exact same thing at the senior center. It's the exact same thing at the hospital. It's users' needs that are at the center, and then all of the other things are bonus effects. So I know, as the representative Graham also said, that there are a lot of attempts at this around. Among other things, in the neighbouring municipality of my home municipality, Skien, in Telemark, it was an experiment. It was concluded because the union said no centrally. The union locally said yes. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Why should the union have a central veto right – that you do not trust the local trustees?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2534	Today's laws are designed that way. As I said in my reply, the Minister of Labour has started work on examining the scope of the very type of refusal mentioned here by the representative Røe Isaksen. When we get it as a background step, it's natural to discuss this with the social partners, and then there's a background for the work to be done in relation to the big-time communication on the work environment law. The representatives in this room will then also have a better basis for debate on the whole of the issues raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2541	I hear it, and it's positive -- let me just underline it. It's positive that there's something going on about it. But must it be that the government and government parties have some sort of opinion on this in the first place? So, today's situation is that you have a number of trials that live under very unstable conditions. You never know if you're getting your experiment renewed from year to year, and power and influence have been taken out of the community and delegated to the central unit. I fully agree that we must have decent working conditions. That's why we have a work environment law. It doesn't rock at all. So we also have unions locally that are able to do exactly what everyone here says they can imagine, that they work for 13 hours, 12 hours or 10 hours. That's why we have local trustees. They're going to be in, they're going to be asked, but now it's delegated to the central term. I know that the Council of States has a long background as rapporteur. She has probably made some reflections about why it is so that this should be decided in Oslo, and not locally in the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2550	I think it's right, as many in this room have said before, that here it's important to consider different considerations. Nor do I think there can be any doubt that in some cases there may be some imbalance between the employee and the employer in that type of relationship. Therefore, it has been a good safety valve that trade unions can centrally enter and have a decisive influence on the assessment of that type of arrangement. The trade unions will then have the opportunity to weigh more attention, including the knowledge available. associated with an increase in the frequency of accidents when working hours increase. I believe that it has been a good arrangement. At the same time, there is now work to see if the scope of rejection is large and why it happens. The Minister of Labour will have a report on this in a very short time that will give us the basis for reflecting on whether the scheme is good, and whether there is a need to look at the scheme. I think it is right to come back to that when we get the big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2557	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2562	The debate shows that there are many and demanding reasons to come back to when we are going to take a comprehensive review. But I also think it's worth noting that germ of rift that some of the right parties are trying to sow between central trust elected and local trust elected. In order for government parties to assess a change in the direction proposed, it must at least be assured that we have equivalent partners locally. When the representative Robert Eriksson goes as hard as he does, he also shows with the alternative budget of the Progress Party that he fires a direct attack on the local trustees. The reason why I say that is because the Progress Party in its alternative budget is going into the process of removing the whole deduction of trade union quotas. And a trust voter who's going to do his job in a good way locally, depends on a lot of members to be an equivalent party. So the policy needs to be shifted from the Progress Party to helping to build more equal partners locally, if you want to bring that proposal to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2569	I'm not going to start the finance debate. I guess it's coming to next week. Then we shall discuss in detail the alternative budget of the various parties, I believe. But I think it's a little embarrassing if it's really like the representative forsberg says from this pulpit today, that the tax deduction is absolutely crucial to maintaining the trustee's order. The trust management system is weak among Norwegian workers if it's the only way to maintain it – because that's what he stood here on the pulpit and said. I can't believe that's the case. Yes, I agree that you should do a good job as a trustee, you must also have members – that is what you say. However, we should not have a tax system that discriminates, and which recruits members to certain trade unions through the tax system financed by all citizens. It's going to be hopeless for me, but we can take that discussion next Thursday during the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2578	I experience in many ways the debate that is taking place in this Chamber today, as a classic difference on the right hand side and on the left hand side of the approach to Norwegian trade union movement. I have to say that for my part I am in order for the social partners to have a decisive influence on the working time arrangements of their own members. It should almost just be missing. It is not the case, therefore, that employee organisations have been consistently reluctant to try new working hours — rather the opposite. Alternative working time arrangements are usually initiated by the trade union movement. But then it has happened that some trade unions have said no to schemes that local trustees have agreed to – and I would like to say for good reason. When employees are pressured to participate in schemes that can put health, environment and safety at risk, trade unions are in their right to refuse to participate in such schemes. And so it is now that the Right will leave the Labour Inspectorate to play the role of the central trade union in approving such working time arrangements – as if it were to make matters especially better. The next thing is probably that the Right also wants the Labour Inspectorate to manage the normal working day. It is as well-known in the contract work, and I think we should have respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2589	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 738]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2605	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 738]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2613	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2621	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2643	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2651	During the debate, Mr Eriksson put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary changes to the law so that, in cases where expulsion from the State has been decided on because of the criminal situation, foreign nationals who were members of the public security before the detention took place are deprived of membership in public security.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on the winding-up of the compensation scheme for prisoners with foreign citizenship.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposals will be entered on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2729	It's impossible to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2734	The president is aware of that, and there are now three secretaries here who are trying to get a line on the computer system so that we get a vote. So we're going to see how far we're going before we have to cancel. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e2745	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3131	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3144	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this – it is nodded by Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3158	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3166	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Sylvi Graham, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3208	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3241	The left has announced that they will support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, and the Christian People's Party has announced that they will subsidize this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3263	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Sylvia Graham on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act, where all changes in working time beyond 10 hours are to be approved by the Labour Inspectorate following formal discussions between the employer and the trade unions locally.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3269	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3290	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3316	The statement is proposed to the Judicial Committee, which shall submit its draft decision to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee for an opinion before the opinion is delivered. Paragraph 15 of the Rules of Procedure, third paragraph. The representative, Mr Dagfinn, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3321	I have asked for the floor to comment on the President's proposal for the committee position of this statement for further consideration in the Stortinget. After hearing the statement, I have no doubt that this case has aspects relating to Storting's control of the administration. The report points to weaknesses in the reporting and information procedures in force in the administration of the Minister of Justice. This also affects the control of underlying agencies by the Council of State and, in particular, the control of secret services by the Council of State. This is a matter which, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, belongs to the Committee of Control and Constitution, and it would be natural, as we see, that the matter had been sent there. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is, therefore, the Scientific Committee for the EOS Committee of the Stortinge, the special control body appointed by the Stortinge for the secret services. If we look at how the case has developed after the Minister of Justice's statement yesterday, we are witnessing a discharge from the leaders of the underlying offices under the Minister of Justice. No one recognizes that they should have informed the Minister of Justice. It's quite clear that it's necessary for the Storting to go thoroughly into these relationships. It is the Grand Duchy's duty under the Constitution to monitor the performance of its functions by the Councils of State and how the Councils of State ensure that they receive the information necessary to enable the Councils themselves to fulfil their responsibilities and obligations to provide information. Against this background, the Christian People's Party believes that it would be natural to send the matter to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Although, in the summary of the Minister of Justice, there are measures falling within the administration of justice as such, there are no measures in the list that the Minister of Justice presented yesterday, which require decisions in Stortinget. There are measures that the Minister of Justice alerts Stortinget that he will take, regardless of the treatment of Stortingen. We want to take note, for our part, that there is obviously a majority in this room that thinks something different than us, but we think that in a situation where there has obviously been a discretionary assessment where this matter was to be sent, it could and should have been stressed that it is now sent to a trade committee where two of the Storting opposition parties are not represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3334	Let me first say that the presidency has spent some time assessing this matter – that is, where we were going to send the statement to the Minister of Justice. First of all, it was assessed whether this statement should at all be passed on to the Committee. It is relatively rare to send presentations in the Storting to the Committee. We made a statement in accordance with normal procedures with contributions from the parliamentary leaders immediately after the presentation, and with replies from the Minister of Justice there and then. So the presidency thought that the way this statement was when it came to content, it should go to committee. The presidency also waited until we had heard the contents of the statement before we took a final position. There was also a conference with the different parties about this yesterday. We then came to the presidency meeting today to find that the content of this statement is, among other things. a good number of proposals for measures to prevent similar situations later should be addressed to the Scientific Committee and not to the Control and Constitutional Committee. It is also such that it could have been sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee. What we have chosen to propose is to send it to the Judicial Committee, which we believe is the right committee, but which then submits its draft position to the Foreign and Defence Committee before the final vote is given. One argument that further led to this decision was that the EOS committee too, with great probability, will now look at this matter. However, the report submitted by the EOS Committee will go to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs as the appropriate committee. With this, I recommend the Presidency's way of dealing with this matter, that it be sent to the Judicial Committee, which submits its draft suspension to the Foreign and Defence Committee before its final release.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3347	This big and comprehensive case came yesterday, and there are certainly good reasons behind the presidency's attitude. Nevertheless, there is a wish from parties in Stortinget for a different treatment, and then our question is whether it is possible to postpone this matter to the next big meeting, so that you can get it up and see if you can find a common position on how to deal with the matter. It is a little difficult to see that this is so urgent that it should not be possible to try to discuss up to a solution where the Storting agrees on how to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3352	It may be natural for the President to clarify the question raised by the representative Karin Andersen, but the Right is initially prepared to support the Presidency's recommendation, although we see that there are also arguments for other committee positions from the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten. We believe that the measures outlined in the presentation make it natural for it to go to the Justice Committee as a professional committee. This does not mean that we exclude that, at a later stage, if there are any new elements in this matter, it may also be relevant to discuss the matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee. However, as it stands now, we believe it is natural that the measures should be discussed and dealt with in the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3359	It is true that the presidency has dealt with this matter. It is also true that in that presidency meeting two of the presidents were not present, so two party groups were not represented in that presidency meeting. There is a proposal for a decision in the Chamber, and then, a little like lightning from the clear sky, comes up other proposals, which obviously some of the presidency knew about. That's why you had to change president. I think there is a reason why the party groups are allowed to discuss this again. I support the SV's proposal to postpone the matter, so that the presidency can discuss this tomorrow morning and then make proposals to which committee this will be sent to, at the meeting tomorrow. I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote for postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3368	I have not realized that there has been any alternative proposal, but that the Christian People's Party wanted to problematize the proposal that has come from the presidency to send this matter to the trade committee. At the Presidency meeting four out of six were present, but contact was made with all the party groups afterwards. As far as I am aware, it has been unanimously agreed that we should send this matter to the Scientific Committee, i.e. to the Committee on Justice, which is presenting the matter to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence before finalisation. I really want to ask that we go to voting on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3377	In the light of what has been said from other parties, I will not just ask the President if it is possible to postpone the matter. I propose that the matter be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3382	I also wanted to make concrete proposals for postponement. It is not necessarily a question of reaching a different decision, but of being able to implement it so that everyone feels that they have had the opportunity to find a solution that they can agree on. I think it makes sense that we have a solution where as many parties as possible agree on the procedure in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3388	With so many parties that want to postpone this vote, I would also suggest that we postpone it. It doesn't matter if we vote on the procedure tomorrow rather than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3393	In the light of the debate that has taken place in the Chamber, the President will propose that Case 79 in today's Minutes be sent to the Presidency for further consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-18.ana.ud1682e3420	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
