ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e41	There are two requests for leave: from the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkevold on leave on 25 and 26 November, and from Mr Bård Hoksrud on leave on 25 November to 29 November, both to take part as observers of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the elections in Moldova. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives of the Telemark County, Kåre Fostervold and Hanne Thürmer are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e65	The representatives Kåre Fostervold and Hanne Thürmer are present and will take the seat. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e112	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 6 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 135 minutes, Advance Party 85 minutes, Right 65 minutes, Socialist Left Party 25 minutes, Center Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes and Left 10 minutes. It is proposed that the change of the Rules of Procedure be arranged in the following manner: six lines of reply will be provided after speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and four lines of response by speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as by other state councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e123	The government's proposals for the 2011 government budget, which we are considering today, show that Norway is doing well. Unemployment is low, employment is high, production is increasing, and growth in the mainland economy is again increasing. The government has steered the country safely through the financial crisis. It ensures that we can further develop the Community solutions and the welfare society we have in Norway. The contrast to what we experience in Europe and in the rest of the world is quite great. Many countries are in a very difficult situation — with both high levels of government debt and high levels of unemployment. It means dramatic cuts in public budgets, and many now experience painful changes with subsequent demonstrations, unrest and social tensions in the various populations. So the danger of a new crisis is not over. Norway, too, can be picked up by new international setbacks. But if that's what the global financial crisis has shown us, it's that the mechanisms we've built around Norwegian economic policy work well. Holding back in good times has given us economic muscles to get us through the crisis in a good way. As the space for action increases again, it is because we have succeeded in politics. Several are still at work, industrial production is rising, and sick leave is falling. The 2011 budget is a tighter budget than what we have seen in recent years. In fact, this is the first budget since 1999, which involves so-called fiscal tightening – i.e. expenditure increases less than the growth of the economy. We're getting close to the 4-pst. track in the rule of action, and we're adding up to be within 2011. Within the framework of reduced oil money use and an unchanged level of taxation, we strengthen Community solutions in health, care, school and culture — as well as stepping up important road and rail investment. Norway now has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We're going to keep having that, but we're not going to rest on the laurels. As many as possible must experience the joy of waking up in the morning and rejoice to go to work, earn their own money, be part of a social community, contribute to the creation of value in our country and the community of which we are all a part. Responsibility often sounds boring. But it's often about the most important things: having security for people's jobs and homes – and security in everyday life. In this year's budget, government parties have given priority to raising those who don't have the strongest lobby organisations in their backs, the small minority, as we often call them: child-restraint children who have failed by all, lonely elderly people who don't get a safe place to stay in their homes when they need it, addicts who don't get the care they need, and the boys and girls who get this out of the school system and never get caught up again. This year we've said it's their turn, because we don't have one young person to lose, and we don't have any older people who don't have the right to a worthy old age. We need all our young people in our working life. It's investment in the future. It's an investment in dignity. The parties to the government shall be measured against their promises and opponents, not against the kingdom of heaven, but against real political alternatives that are determined to govern the country. This year, too, the position of the Financial Committee shows that opposition parties are breaking up violently in their alternative budgets, for example. in the case of the use of oil money. But it doesn't change the fact that the blue parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party – which I refer to as the real opponents of today's government – have said that they will cooperate and agree on a number of things. So then we have to believe them when they say they're going to find each other. So what are the two largest opposition parties on the civil side agreed on? Well, first of all, it's the tax cuts. Some call for an ideological debate in Norwegian politics. Well, here it is. Norwegian political debate has always been about the distribution of society's resources, and at that point blue-blue cooperation differs significantly from today's government parties. We do not believe that we can waste the community for money over and over again on the income side while the money is spent for all good purposes on the expenditure side. Everyone understands that the full leak at both ends eventually ends with an empty oil fund and a shaken Norwegian economy. The party of progress, as the largest opposition party in Stortinget today, will cut approx. 29 B.C.E. kr in taxes and charges incurred in its alternative budget for the following year. But their total promises for the ageing period are estimated to be well over 88 billion. kr. So the big question is: what do you do this year two, when you have used up the possibility of strangling aid far, wind up Norwegian agriculture through severe cuts in agricultural aid, cut regional development funds and implement large cuts in the public sector, the state sector, etc.? Then you've only covered in the first 29 billion. kr, and the big question is how the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Right, looks to cover up the rest of the promised tax cuts. For the Progress Party, this is almost 70 billion new. With such tax cuts promises, important welfare services for people in Norway are not being cut. At the same time as the Right says that they will cooperate with the Progress Party, they say that they should be the guarantor of a responsible economic policy. This is also reflected in the setting. But I guess you also in the Right realize that the Advance Party is going to demand influence in a possible new blue-blue government. It would be totally unreasonable for one of the two equally large right parties not to have an influence on economic policy. Yes, the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, even today in the VG, says that the economic policy of the Progress Party is part of their soul, and there I see that one should not participate in an economic policy that is about the soul of a party. I think that's very likely. With this in mind, I now think it is time for us to ask the Right in this debate a clear answer to what kind of economic policy should be used as the basis for the alternative to today's government. For example, what does it look like? The right-wing leader that the Progress Party is struggling with billions of promises for taxes and tax cuts, and a blue-blue government will be near the Siv Jensen Billion Lifts after 2013. Is this a treasure trove? This is the question it is time for us to clarify properly, so that we can have a real political debate in this Chamber. People and parties who take the aim of throwing the present government, and even governing the country, must be able to agree on the basics of politics. In the position of the Financial Committee, it is a long step towards agreeing on tax cuts as the main priority of a future Right-wing Party cooperation. But the big dilemma remains: if you're going to rule a country, it doesn't hold on to creative budgets like the discovery of various dynamic effects, which none of us see where there is. Then you actually have to find real containment proposals that can actually be implemented. In the opinion of the Financial Committee, there is no such agreement on the civil side. We must therefore realise that there is every reason to fear that the Progress Party will also have a significant influence on economic policy in future cooperation on the civil side. Some things have received more attention than other things after the presentation of the budget. The entries on Kåre and Marlene, for example: on TV 2, about individual sheds in the care of the elderly, has made a strong impression on me and on many others. Because even though most of the elderly get good and worthwhile help every day, we still have a job to do. We have to make sure that there are more places and even more warm hands in the care of the elderly. In addition to the things that are now in today's position, several things have been done during the fall that have strengthened this important work. The government has submitted a regulation on a guarantee of dignity in the care of the elderly. The Government has proposed an increase of 40 pst in the grant to nursing homes and nursing homes. The government has proposed one additional billion to municipalities to increase the possibility of providing a good and worthwhile care for the elderly. And here in the Stortingen in connection with the treatment of the financial situation, several measures under the «Freedom and Older People» tab have been worth over 50 million. Extra kroner. These are important things that make the elderly sure that they will have a decent care for the elderly in the future. In addition to older people in need of care, there has been a lot of discussion about the new pension tax system, and it is one of the major steps in fiscal policy that the Committee on Finance has been dealing with and is to be dealt with here today in the Chamber. Then it is important to remember that overall, the changes in pension contributions provide a total tax relief for pensioners of 1.35 billion. kr. About two out of three pensioners – those with low or normal pensions – have to pay less or receive unchanged taxes after these changes. So most people make the conversion, and we're correcting a number of injustices. It is gratifying that it seems that in Stortinget there will be broad support for the very system conversion government now adding up, and with the support of the government parties here in Stortinget. However, there are some differences, as shown by the adjustment, in the whereabouts of the so-called break point – who pays more, receives unchanged or lower taxes. The consensus of the basic idea creates the predictability of the pensioners in any case. To sum up, this year's budget, which will have a majority in this House, is a very good budget for the country, a budget for security and for confidence in the future, in order to make Norway even better. A country and a society's potential is the sum of all of us who live here. This will also make a country where everything is possible, a country with all its possibilities. This state budget fully indicates that we are really a country with the future ahead of us, with safe governance of the country even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e177	I can reassure the representative Micaelsen that the Progress Party will have an influence on the future government in terms of economic policy. I understand that he is happy and reasonable. The estimated surplus on the government budget next year is 153 billion. kr. This amount is planned by the government to transfer to the State pension fund. I'm sure they'll be happy for that. To figure out exactly 153 billion. The government has had to tax every third retirement pensioner harder. Because if you didn't, you only had 151 billion. kr has been transferred, and it should be taken out. A retirement pension is a right based on social security contributions through a long working life. Older pensioners may also have little influence on their own income. Is the representative of Micasen comfortable reducing purchasing power to 200,000 pensioners and will the representative try to reverse the proposed tax increase if, in the context of the revision, it turns out that the tax intake is greater than assumed or is not part of the economic soul of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e186	There is a broad political consensus in this room, with the exception of one party, that it is important to ensure sustainable pensions in the future. And once again, we see an example that one of the parties, the largest opposition party, is totally on the sideline when demanding choices and demanding decisions have to be made for the future. I'm very comfortable with what we've put forward in terms of pensioner taxes. Two out of three pensioners will get unchanged or lower taxes, and in addition we correct a number of injustices that have been in the old system. For example, the pensioners who have saved a long life in the bank will not experience being taxed in full in terms of their interest income and, in addition, that married and cohabiting pensioners have been treated unfairly. So I'm proud to be able to bring forward a new reform in the hall and vote for it. What is the big question again is how the Progress Party will deal with demanding political choices in the future when they will not take responsibility for this matter in this Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e195	I have a question about the dynamics for which we are constantly being attacked. In a budgetary settlement between the centre parties and the Progress Party, the Progress Party was able to remove what is called the value tax on cars. So it's going to be 50 million. kr. The following year, it turned out that this did not lead to an increase in government expenditure, but actually to an increase in revenue of more than 100 million. kr due to the dynamic effect. After all, the working party is subject to a differentiated employer’s fee in the districts. I assume you are because it has a dynamic effect, so it creates jobs in the districts. However, the use of dynamics by the Progress Party is still under attack. Is it such that the dynamics of the Ministry of Finance and the Workers' Party are only used where it fits the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e204	The answer to that is no. But it's used where there's technical evidence that there can be dynamic effects, where researchers, the best economists say there can be. It acknowledges the Workers' Party, and I am absolutely sure the Minister of Finance can confirm it afterwards in the debate. But what is alarming about the alternative budget of the Progress Party and its impact is that the 30 pst tax cuts are assumed. or 35 pst. – I’m a little insecure, because different figures are used – are to be financed by bringing these back to the community through increased tax revenues. Well, I'm still glad to see that the Progress Party has any evidence that the way of doing this is correct. I would urge the Progress Party to call the Statistical Central Bureau and ask the researchers who have prepared the report to which the Progress Party refers whether this is correct or wrong. Now it's not just us who criticize the kind of dynamic effects. The progress party tends to look at the United States, and former President George Bush has referred to this as the 'voodoo economy'. So if what the Workers' Party says doesn't make an impression, maybe you could listen to your friends in the Republican Party in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e213	The President would then draw attention to the fact that there is an opportunity at our electronic facility to request two lines for those lots that have the opportunity after the distribution. You can also do it manually by showing that you are asking for two lines in a way that shows two fingers. The president prefers to start with the index finger.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e216	It's advanced, President! It's amazing, that technology!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e221	I tried to use the technology. I'll take it by note. But I think the representative Micaelsen has a challenge when he tries to describe a reality – especially when it comes to the Right – in which people don't recognize. People know that the Right stands for a responsible economic policy. People know that the Right stands for a policy where we want to give equal opportunities to everyone, and people know that we stand for a policy that will give freedom of choice, within that state covers the costs of services, and we want fewer cows. The mica is based on a situation where people see that the queues are increasing, the quality of the services are falling, and systems are created that are better adapted to the system than the user. It's then a huge challenge to make people believe in their own description of reality. We see a budget created to manage Norway. There are no priorities despite the fact that the Micasen tried to say that, and there are no thoughts about new solutions. Why are the red-greens afraid to enter into a debate about new solutions for the Norwegian economy when we know that the challenges after 2020 are very big?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e231	I do not understand where the representative has it from that we are not willing to look both critically at the society we have today and propose new solutions in those fields. Let me give you one example. There has been a great deal of commitment in this room because the child-restraint children who depend on the municipal auxiliaries have not received the help they should have. Therefore, a new earmarked grant has been made for the protection of children. But it's a main question that remains. Right can talk as much as they want about small social differences, that you want equal opportunities, but why is there in the Right's alternative budget one main effort that is about ten times as large as anything else, namely to cut the taxes to those who have the most from before? I just don't understand. And if that's how the Right Now suddenly is concerned with small social differences, I think you should go back to your election promise to liquidate the wealth tax, which will recreate the zero tax revenues and give a gift package to the richest people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e236	We can definitely have a debate about child protection, because there I think people see that there's a lot of money in there without it being a single solution that really hits the user. But we are not going to have a debate on that. The mica would go into tax policy, and we'd like to go into it very much. We see that from the Stoltenberg I government to the Stoltenberg II government, a growth-enhancing tax policy has been shifted from growth-enhancing tax policies to growth-reducing tax policies. We have a property tax that is a peculiar tax on Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegians living in Norway, and it is well done to try to produce it as particularly growth-promoting. I think people see that there is a tax that affects family ownership out in community, and it affects local businesses. If you want to tackle the zero-tax problem, and we're very happy to discuss it around, you have solutions other than hitting ownership and jobs out in District Norway. It's strange that the mica can't get away from the rhetoric and into practical solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e243	The Labour Party has no religious relationship with the property tax!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e248	That's not far from it!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e253	We don't. It has its weaknesses like many other taxes and taxes. I get daily telephones, e-mails and people in the office who have very good suggestions on how to weaken government revenue through lower taxes and taxes, but also suggestions that are very well thought out in terms of increasing government expenditure. Then, as politicians, we are left with a choice: to dry to say no to something in order to say yes to something else. In the Labour Party and the Government, we are very clear that it is not appropriate to remove 13–14–15 billion. kr, which the taxes on wealth gives to the Community, which may finance 15 000 health homes per year. But it's a very honest thing that the Right chooses differently and will remove it, which in turn creates zero-tax collectors and weakens the state's income. But it's a choice. That is a clear priority. And there's a clear difference between the Right Party and the Advance Party and today's government, based on the three red-green parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e260	This year, we have lifted those groups that do not have strong lobbying interests behind them, says the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman, and mentioning child protection as an example – this year. But then, in some areas, the government has chosen to give priority to long-term escalation until the need is met. I mention that over many years you have had a long-term commitment to full child care coverage, I mention that you have been told that you should have full health care by 2015, although the pace does not warrant it, and I mention that you have said that by 2014 culture should have 1 pst. by the State budget. This applies to large groups, wide selection groups. Child protection is clearly lower on the government's priority list, even though it has been given a boost this year, which also does not correspond to the need. Dignity: When will governments and government parties lift child protection through a long-term escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e269	I can hardly imagine anyone else in Norwegian society who doesn't deserve the community to stand up for them. I share that commitment to child protection with the representative of the Christian People's Party. The fact that children experience, point 1, failure by their parents or superiors, do not experience the care they need in the home, and point 2, that we have not had a good enough support device in the municipal and state child protection that either stands there with community, is unworthy. But we're going to do something about that. When you say no to something, which I have now explained in several lines, Norwegian society also has the opportunity to raise children's protection to a more dignified life. Then I think it's a little strange that the Christian People's Party, instead of being on duty to lift child protection, should attack the Workers' Party and the Government so that there is not enough in earmarked grants for a year in which we have, after all, been given a new ear-marked grant for municipal child protection – of which I am very proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e274	The Chairman of the Financial Committee wrote the following on his blog a year ago: ‘But the future of biofuels, in my opinion, is about biofuels based on wood. And this could be big in Norway. But the road to this does not go to make road traffic cheaper through tax exemptions – an exemption that does not distinguish between climate-friendly and unfriendly biofuels! The future of good biofuels is driven by sales obligations, product standards/carriage criteria and State contributions to research, development and commercialisation of the technology.» The result today is that the government has, for uncertain reasons, added a further increase in a drawer after Uniol in Fredrikstad has gone down, and we also know what happens to Synergo in the financial committee's own county. That business is also going badly. Does the head of the Committee acknowledge that blog?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e284	The answer to that is no. You should be careful with self-confidence, but I think it was very well written on my own blog a year ago. I'm in for every word. It is not that in the future it is not necessary to consider that all types of fuel or all those who use roads and contribute to the negative effects of driving must be involved in and pay for the costs that are borne by society. I have ears, I too, and I have come to realize that it was not – what to say – full applause for the proposal that came last year. That is why we have proposed what we have now done, but we are warning a new comprehensive review of this whole area, because it is important to predictability as well as general political outreach on what we agree on. We must agree on a system that can carry through several governments, which can be sustainable in the future. But I'm in for every word. I still believe that the best way to promote the best biofuels the world can see is through support for commercialisation, research and development, not through tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e291	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e294	The Progress Party considers that the submitted budget by the government is not suitable for meeting the challenges facing Norway. This is why the Progress Party proposes clear priorities so that better provision can be made in the municipalities, health services and the school sector. Furthermore, the Progress Party will strengthen its defence and investment in infrastructure. Our budget commitments include the construction and maintenance of infrastructure with a focus on roads, railways, school buildings and nursing homes. Through such a bet, Norwegian infrastructure will be given an extension of the lift. The Progress Party further proposes that tax relief be given next year with a focus on groups of lower and medium-income. The Progress Party proposes that employees and pensioners receive reduced taxes. We also propose a reduction in property taxes and the abolition of inheritance taxes, so that more enterprises and individuals can use their capital to reinvest in business. The reduction in taxes on wealth is the first step in the process of completely abolishing this strange double taxation. The government, in advance of the submission of the State budget, has been committed to comply with the rules of action and to reduce the use of money. But thanks to the fact that things have gone better in Norwegian business than you feared, you obviously get away from the most dramatic cuts. By and large, a little more is granted in most areas. The party of progress does not comply with the Government’s rule of action. The Progress Party wants an alternative rule of action, such as: distinguish between investments and current costs. Otherwise, we are in the budgetary process of the economic situation in which the country is at all times in. To this end, the Progress Party promotes proposals for changes to government budget proposals in a number of areas: Norway, with its oil wealth, has opportunities for many other countries to envy us. Nevertheless, this should not be a sleeping cushion. But we are going to make good, sensible and necessary investments now, which will provide better framework conditions for today's citizens and those who come after us. Norway has a large public sector. This requires, in the view of the Progress Party, that we critically review public operations in order to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as wisely and efficiently as possible. As elected representatives, we manage the money we have available on behalf of the population. That is why, through our alternative state budget, we have systematically gone through all parts of public administration, bureaucracy and subsidy schemes. This is what we do, among other things. in order to release funds to be able to give greater priority in the areas we believe the government is doing too little. And we're doing this so that we can make cuts in the government's collection of taxes and taxes. The Progress Party wants most people to keep more of their wages and pensions, so that it is possible to live on their own income, and that you make choices for yourself and your family. We are still reminded of the situation of patients in our hospitals and in the community's offerings to the elderly. The Progress Party is concerned about developments related to the hospital economy and the challenges associated with waiting lists and health cows. And in the care of the elderly, there are great differences between municipalities, and everyone should now see the need for a vigilance for better care of the elderly. The Progress Party believes that we must provide these people with a better quality offer, and more resources must be allocated. The Progress Party therefore proposes a clear commitment to patient treatment and the strengthening of care for the elderly. We do this by proposing system modifications by using private offerings as a supplement to the public, as well as more money earmarked for our hospitals and more earmarked money for the care of the elderly in Norwegian municipalities. Drivers, travellers with public transport and business are reminded every day of the lack of investment in infrastructure. The proposals of the Progress Party in the State Budget are therefore a long-term boost in the development of roads, the development of railways, the halt in the use of toll resources, and the establishment of sustainable and predictable financing of these development projects within the transport network. This is done, inter alia: by proposing the construction of an infrastructure fund in which returns are earmarked for real investment in transport. The government's budget proposal will not improve the security of most people. The Progress Party will therefore significantly increase the police operational budget next year, to ensure that more police officers are employed, and not least that newly trained police students get a job in the police. And we want to give the police their own investment budget, so that the police officers don't have to take off their operating budgets to make the necessary investments. The Progress Party believes that Norway should aim at the country’s education system being at the top of the world in terms of quality and learning outcomes and reflect that future jobs will be largely knowledge-intensive. The government's draft budget puts too little emphasis on education and research in relation to the stated objectives. The main priorities of the Progress Party in this area are higher education and research, better quality of initial training, adapted to education and the strengthening of the supply of pupils with special needs. Through our own alternative to the government budget, we have chosen to be very clear on who we think should be priority No. 1, that is, the elderly. In my view, the government's draft budget is an attack on the elderly, especially in view of the tax consolidation of a large proportion of pensioners. Similarly, the government’s draft budget is a breach of promises in view of the enormous challenges many municipalities face in the care of the elderly – and where the government does not deliver. Let's take this with tax incentives first. The government proposes that all pensioners with a pension of 318,000 kroner and upwards should receive an increase in taxes — i.e. less to live for. I believe this is an attack on an acquired right. Many pensioners plan their old age on the basis of what is expected to be paid. An increased tax reduces freedom of choice and makes old age more insecure for many. It's not that retirement is an alms from the state. One has paid for his own pension and should expect predictability from the state. And I think many pensioners now feel cheated when the government parties in the election campaign last year promised not to increase taxes. These are going to be pretty special words for those who are getting their pension cut just because of increased taxes. The Progress Party is opposed to tax incentives for pensioners, and we suggest that all pensioners receive a tax return to next year – in line with our proposal that employees should also retain more of their own salary next year by lowering taxes. The Progress Party also proposes a strong commitment to care for the elderly in our alternative state budget. Many municipalities are struggling with the economy today with the consequence that they are unable to provide a good and worthwhile offer to the elderly who are in need of care. We therefore propose that increased free resources be allocated to the municipalities via the State budget, so that a slightly easier economic working day can be spent in these budgets. In addition, the Progress Party proposes 2 billion. have earmarked the care of the elderly in the municipalities, including: for the operation of hospital facilities. In addition, we propose that the grant granted by the State to municipalities for the construction of new health homes be doubled in line with the government's proposals in the State budget. TV 2 has, through a number of reports, highlighted the state of care for the elderly in Norwegian municipalities. The TV 2 study shows that more than 3000 elderly nurses are waiting in hospital. Unfortunately, the Government Party's promises from the 2009 election campaign that it should now be invested in the care of the elderly prove to be empty words. The situation after five years with a red-green government actually shows no positive development. A few more hospitals are built, but it does little to help when many municipalities leave these places empty, as you do not have money for the operation itself. Employees in old age care in our municipalities do a great job, but now money has to be invested so that employees can also increase their skills and get a better daily life, so that you can take good care of them. Norway will also have record profits next year. ==References== 153 B.C.E. kr shall be transferred to the oil fund. The Progress Party also wants us to save some of the oil resources. At the same time, Norway’s freedom of action must also be used financially to focus on the basic tasks of the public. The world’s richest countries face major challenges in the care of the elderly, school and health services. There is too little investment on both road and rail. Norway has the opportunities, but then we must also be willing to bet, so that Norway does not slow down. Today’s government likes to manage and manage, but shows no willingness to renew and clear priorities. In conclusion, I would like to mention all the proposals made by the Advance Party, either alone or with others, in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e352	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e357	There was a lot of work to be done here, but I think we should focus on one aspect, because this has been a debate over the last few days on the size of the Advance Party's tax promises. In the Workers' Party we believe it is important to have something to measure today's government against, and we have therefore calculated these promises to well 88 billion. NOK – during this ageing period, I assume. Then we keep the removal of the NRK license and the deletion of tolls and tolls, which the Progress Party has also promised, away. I mention a few examples: it is about the removal of property taxes, inheritance taxes, electricity taxes, it is about Swedish taxes on alcohol and tobacco, it is about the introduction of the «FrP price» on petrol and diesel, etc. My question to the representative of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, is: Can Leirstein confirm that these are the current promises made by the Progress Party and that they have been given in order to be implemented during this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e364	Here I think it was a very good policy that the representative Micasen framed. The Progress Party has gone to the elections on a game program how many of the points Micaelsen mentions are perfectly clear bets on the part of the Progress Party. Having a clear demand for cuts in taxes and charges, I am proud that the Progress Party is the party that is at the forefront of cutting taxes and charges so that most people get more freedom of choice and can decide more and live on their own wages. On the other hand, I disagree with the calculation that Micasen and others have made, that this is automatically going to cost $88 billion. kr. Firstly, I believe that there is a dynamic effect in these proposals, such as: will increase growth in the Norwegian economy. Then these so-called losses for the state will not be as great as the Micalesen claims. Furthermore, we have not said that it will be implemented in one year, as you can get the impression when you read the answer from the Ministry of Finance. These are promises you want to implement over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e371	In today’s VG, there is a suggestion that the Right Party and the Advance Party have ‘never agreed more’ than now. The representative, Leirstein and the representative, Sanner, appear in the essay as ‘permanent’. But the representative Sanner is concerned as a fiscal spokesman in the Right. He has said several times that the responsible economy is crucial for the Right and that they want to have the steering wheel of economic policy. But one of the fundamental heart issues of the Advance Party is precisely opposition to the rule of action and the restrictions on which other parties agree in the use of oil money. Will the Progress Party demand influence over economic policy in any government cooperation with the Right, or can we expect the Progress Party to adhere to the Right level of oil money usage?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e378	It is clear that in a future government in which the Progress Party is involved, the Progress Party will, of course, also have a hand on the steering wheel. I guess that was also the motivation for both the Center Party and SV to join a government project together with the Workers' Party, that you hope to get your hand on the steering wheel. So it turns out that someone might not get it, but at least the Progress Party is going to get it in a future government. I note that this rule of action, which the representative is committed to pointing out that the Progress Party disagrees with, is never being followed in many areas. It has not been followed by previous governments, but is also not followed by today’s government — nor in the state budget adopted today, it follows this rule of action. So in a future government there should at least be no problem in applying the same interpretation of the rule of action as the majority parties do, namely that it is not being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e385	Why would an employee at Rimi's checkout pay taxes if Norway's richest billionaires don't have to pay a penny? Why should people be honest if it's easy to clean up others, and why is it fair to distribute $13 000 in taxes to those who make over $3 million? kr a year, while lone mothers and fathers will cut by 700 million. In his social benefits? SV chooses to take seriously the alternative budget of the Progress Party. We don't think that you can conjure up sickness and misery, or divorce for that matter, from 1 January 2011, and especially if you also put up with hard competition in the workplace, freeing up alcohol policy and larger class divisions in Norway. The policy and budget of the Progress Party for next year are unfair. You take from the poor and then you give it to the richest. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e392	I disagree with the representative's conclusion that the Progress Party in its budget takes from the poor and gives to the rich. In fact, in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we are proposing a great deal of tax cuts, and especially tax cuts will benefit them with low incomes. When it is such that, among other things, The state and toll companies take in billions of tolls, don't hurt it for rich people, but it hurts for ordinary people who go to work, whether it's in cash at Rimi or whether it's another type of job. Then it hurts much more for those who have low incomes than for those who have high incomes. That's why the Progress Party is concerned that we increase the bottom line and do it so that those with low and medium incomes get the best out. Then we want to remove the property tax, because the property tax is an attack on Norwegian ownership of business. We want to secure the jobs, and then it makes sense to remove the property tax in the long term, so that we can secure Norwegian jobs so that the Rimi employee still has a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e399	Politics is prioritizing, and the Progress Party is an external right party that will give market forces greater space and power. They will give priority to strengthening the strengths of the strong, and this will then be attempted as a better society. Differences among people are going to increase. The loss of the property tax is just one example of an leaving the tax liability principle. There is a non-proprietary tax at international level, which has a lower tax base, namely property taxes. The policy of the Progress Party will be a violation of the policy of generosity with economic, social and cultural self-sufficiency that stands very strongly at the grassroots of the Norwegian population. My question is: Will not large parts of the electorate of the Progress Party experience it as a major setback if the extreme right-wing policy of the Progress Party is realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e410	There is no extreme right-wing policy in the Progress Party programme. The programme and policy of the Progress Party is a renewal of Norway, which is, in fact, very much required when we see how big a problem we have in a number of areas of society. So I think it's very special that the representative Lundtigen chooses to take it up that the Progress Party will take away the property tax, implicitly that the Center Party wants to keep the property tax. Because I am talking to quite a lot of self-employed people in agriculture, among other things, who are very busy removing the property tax, among other things. the portion of working capital. I think that many of them, or, to put it that way, the few supporters that Lundtigen's party has left, actually disagree with the representative Lundtigen in his strong, warm defense of the property tax as a good tax. I believe this is an attack on self-employed and Norwegian ownership of the business. I am concerned that we can actually get rid of the property tax, and I hope that opposition politicians Lundtegegen in the next major period will have a new government to remove the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e419	The Progress Party's alternative budget has reduced taxes on both alcohol and tobacco for the following reasons: wanting to reduce border trade and smuggling, and saving Norwegian jobs. This means that it is believed that the charging policy affects people's actions. But then it can be seen that the Progress Party will have a lower electricity charge, a lower base rate on mineral oil and a lower fuel charge. A very interesting question to ask the Progress Party then is: does that mean that you want people to pollute more and use more energy, or is it such that you think that market forces only work on spirits, and not on the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e426	There are a lot of ways to get warmed up, but I don't want to elaborate on it. It is very interesting that you take it up with an electricity charge. You can take a look around Norway, at how it was last winter, and how it could be this winter. At the latest today in the news we announced a price shock on the electricity charge. I strongly doubt that people most guys because it's fun, you guys fire to get warm. We know, among other things: That here in Oslo, from which the representative Skei Grande comes, there were many older people who chose to turn off the heat last winter because it became too expensive. It's quite serious. Of course, charges have something to do with consumption and behavior, but here, on the electricity charge side, when we talk about electricity, we're talking about something that's imperative, a completely basic good that people actually have to have. And we think it's completely unreasonable that in a cold winter in the future, the state is going to serve itself in search, while ordinary people are going to have to pay sky-high electricity bills in a country where we produce so much energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e436	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e439	In these days, many European countries have to cut their budgets sharply. For them, the financial crisis has turned into a job crisis and a debt crisis. Other European countries, such as Sweden and Germany, are about to leave the crisis. They've gained growth in the economy and regained control of the budgets, and they've power it without large oil revenues. In Norway, we can rejoice that things are going well. We have been through the crisis well and, unlike many other countries, can spend considerably more money on the state budget next year. We can thank the oil revenues and other requested raw materials, but not only that: Norway has also done a lot of the right political thing, and we have a lot of good companies that are at the top of the world with their technology and their skills. At the same time, I think it is important that we remember ourselves that Norway is also dependent on developments in Europe. If Europe experiences a new setback, it is obvious that it could hit a small country with an open economy dependent on being competitive on exports. The fact that Norway is a rich country today and that it is a good country to live in for most people is no guarantee that Norway will be there tomorrow. It's our priorities, or what we sow today, that will determine what we can harvest tomorrow. The government has been so lucky. Yes, we can easily conclude that Norway has Europe's luckiest government. But what worries me the most is that it seems that the government is leaning back and counting that it will also settle down to next year. The government has provided a budget for 2011 which is an excellent starting point for managing Norway, but which is poorly adapted to the major challenges Norway will face by 2020. President, I suppose I should have a speaking time sometime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e454	The representative has 10 minutes, but we're going to make sure it's fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e457	Thank you. The decade that we have behind us has in many ways been ten gold years in the Norwegian economy. We have seen strong growth in oil revenues and moderate growth in expenditure, among other things. pensions. In the decade into which we have now entered, the growth of oil revenues will be weaker and the growth of expenditure will be significantly stronger. And we know that after 2020, the revenue from oil and gas activities will fall and the cost of care for the elderly, for health and for pensions will rise sharply. This is what the budget debate should be about, because that is what this and how we tackle these challenges, which will be crucial for how we can further develop our good welfare society. The question is how the government intends to address this challenge. I'm glad you're getting closer to the rule of action. It's important to create security for pensions. However, the question is also how to prioritise money in the budget – to what extent you contribute to creating sustainable growth so that we have a basis for supporting well-being and developing well-being in the coming years. The government is actually in the privileged situation that you have to spend a whole 60 billion dollars. kr more on the government budget next year than this year. 60 B.C.E. kr – corresponding to two full transport budgets – shall be charged to the budget next year. Then it's pretty incredible -- in the golden year we're going to go into, when you're going to spend 60 billion. kr more – that the government is able to cut the research budget. In other words, you're going to have less seed for next year than what we have this year. We know that the slowdown in traffic is going to increase. That's now we should invest more in our infrastructure. And we have a government that has gone from growth-creating tax relief to growth-reducing tax increases. After all, I hear that the representative Torgeir Micasen of the Workers' Party says: We have no religious relationship with the property tax. I also hear that the Workers' Party's people are walking around and clapping people in business, saying, "We have no religious relationship with the property tax." But you're now at least strong in faith, because if you see what the government has actually done in these four years, you'll see that you've doubled the tax on working capital. And that's the working capital, which is the basis of the property tax for the owners, which makes Norwegian enterprises, owned by the Nordics, weaker than enterprises owned by foreigners. And when the government has doubled the wealth tax on working capital, that means that Norwegian owners have to drain the companies for more money to pay the property tax. Then jobs become more unsafe, businesses are weaker, and they have fewer opportunities to invest in the future. On the right, our alternative budget sets out two strategies: a sustainable growth strategy, and a sustainable welfare strategy. A common challenge that we all have to deal with is how to finance our future well-being. Then red-green politicians run around and say we have to treasure more. We must not tax any more, we must create more if we are to finance future welfare. Therefore, the right is concerned with facilitating the start-up of enterprises, and it should be easier to run enterprises. That is why we are concerned that we need to invest more in what creates growth, namely infrastructure, by increasing the road budget and collective investment by 1.3 billion. kr, by investing more in environmental technologies and innovation so that our companies can be at the forefront of technological development, by investing more in knowledge and research, by investing more in fruit and green rather than spending a lot of money, in our teachers so that they get good after-school training, by investing 600 million. In research, and by moving from the red-green growth-reducing tax incentives to growth-enhancing tax policies. It's about making it profitable to work, it's about making it profitable to invest, so we can get more businesses and increase value creation. We also put forward a strategy for sustainable well-being. For the Right, it is important that we preserve a society with relatively small differences. It's an important Norwegian value, it's an important Nordic value. I note that the left-hand side in particular believes that they have some kind of monopoly on Norwegian values. They don't. Relatively small differences are a Norwegian value that we are all concerned about preserving, because it shows some of the strength of our society. Then we have to make sure that we have a good social safety net. It says the right hand hand hand hand side -- we've been involved in developing that. But we also need to help develop the workline, make sure that more people can go from social security to work. It is the tax revenue that is to finance our future welfare, and then we have to make sure that there are more who pay taxes, then we have to make sure to open the doors of the labour market to more groups. This is why, among other things, To the right, put forward a proposal for an organisation guarantee for people with disabilities to facilitate more disabled people, inter alia. entering the labour market. We want to let go of all the good forces. It was a policy that worked when the Right put in government: We got the health cows down by the public buying patient treatment at private hospitals that had free capacity. We want to get rid of non-governmental organisations and the social entrepreneurs. The welfare challenges are too great to be able to go into the ideological ditch when the problems are to be solved. The right is committed to improving the quality of our welfare services by increasing competence, by investing more in the hospitals and hospitals. We are concerned that we should have less bureaucracy and more well-being. Sometimes I hear the left side say that the choice is between tax relief and welfare. No, it's between bureaucracy and well-being. We saw that when the Right sat in government, the expenses of the municipal administration went down. Under the red-green regime, the municipal administration's expenses have gone up by 6 billion. kr. It's money that could have been invested in kindergartens, in nursing homes and in schools. On the right, we want to build up over-administered Norway. We must ensure that we have a good administration, that the public sector is a good job. However, Norway is currently under administration. There's the government's action paralysis. Finally, I note that the red-green parties in front of this budget debate have flunked their strategy. We've been told every year that the bourgeois parties are cracking in every direction. Now, after falling into the polls and obviously being apprehended by a little panic, the main melody is that the bourgeois parties agree – especially the Right Party and the Advance Party. I think that's good. I am pleased with every matter on which the four bourgeois parties stand together – and there are many of them in these budget proposals – because where we stand together, we lay the basis for a common policy when there is a new bourgeois majority after the next elections. Then more can be invested in school, and more can be invested in the workplace, and we can provide better conditions for volunteering. I like those areas where there is equality, but at the same time we also have to be honest and recognize where there is difference. The right is closer to the Labour Party, both in terms of the size of the aid budget and in terms of the agricultural budget. We are concerned that economic policy should be responsible, because it creates security for families and security for businesses. I believe that this debate is also important. With that, I take up the proposals put forward by the Right in the budgetary position, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e480	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e485	I can confirm that we have no religious relationship with the property tax. That's why it bothers the Right somewhat adventurous that it's the red-green government that's far on the way to removing the wealth tax for ordinary people, which right was never close to implementing when they put themselves in government. But now leave it. I want to go back to this essay in today’s VG – life experts might refer to Sanner and Leirstein as “duves” or something in that expensive. I hear that the Right now is concerned that there are similarities on the civil side, but there is also a big gap. One of the main features, which is the most unclear, is economic policy, which is the pillar of welfare and business in Norway. We have now heard the representative of Mr Leirstein of the Progress Party confirm that the Progress Party will ask for, and demand, significant influence in economic policy in possible cooperation with the Right in the future. What is the representative of Sanner's response to such an opinion by Leirstein?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e492	When I hear the representative Micaelsen, I get a little déjà vu feeling from the role I had before the red-green government was formed in 2005. Then I remember challenging the Workers' Party over and over again and over again on how to deal with the Swedish Expenses Party and the Senter Party. Then Jens Stoltenberg, who became Prime Minister, replied that the Labour Party could be trusted in economic policy. My answer is the same: all parties that have cooperated with the Right Up through history, and all parties that will cooperate with the Right in the future know that for the Right it is absolutely essential that there is accountability in economic policy. It is crucial for families, it is crucial for businesses. That's important to the right, we've said that before, and of course we're going to repeat that. All the parties that have ambitions to cooperate with us know that that's where the limit goes. We were also able to highlight this when we were in the centre of the Right-Registration from 2001 to 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e499	I think it's interesting to drill a little bit more in this: what does the guarantees from Sanner and Right about economic policy really mean? Is it so to understand that when the Advance Party promises significantly more in tax and tax terms than the Right, the election promises of the Advance Party must be phased out? Is that what Sanner means by a guarantee? Or is it that when Sanner is going to sit down with any accounting platform, he has to give in, so that the Progress Party gets the influence that Leirstein thinks you should have? So what does the guarantee really mean? Is it also true in Sanner's mind that much of the promises of the Advancement Party must then be cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e506	I also believe that the representative of Breen understands that any negotiations between the Right and the Advance Party and other bourgeois parties are not taking place on these two interlocutors. I have again clarified where the Right is in economic policy, and I don't think anyone outside this room is in doubt about it. I think the Workers' Party will have a significant challenge if they intend to convince the voters that at any time the Right will conduct an irresponsible economic policy. But, as I said, I myself negotiated the state budget with Siv Jensen for four years. We reached good compromises for Norway. A political debate isn't just about how much money you spend, it's also about how you spend the money. What all four civil parties agree on is that we need to open up more new solutions to solve more welfare tasks, and that we need to create better conditions for value creators, for small and large enterprises, for research and for voluntary organisations. Economic priorities are also important. It's not just how much money you spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e515	Relatively small differences are no natural value that comes down from above, from our geography, from the oil or anything else. It is a political choice that the majority of Norwegian society has made over decades. It is based on fair distribution, strong public welfare, full employment and safe working conditions. So I've read the alternative budget of the Right. There's actually nothing about fair distribution, nothing about small social differences, nothing about fighting inequality. On the other hand, the policy is going in the opposite direction. 60,000 kroner in tax bills for one that's worth more than 3 million dollars. kr, will be the result of the policy, a few hundred patches to the person who thinks little, and if you have a couple of children, there is one up in January of the increase in the nursery price that Right puts up. Can the representative, Mr Sanner, confirm that the draft budget to the Right will lead to greater income disparities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e522	The draft budget to the Right will help us to combat some of the differences that we see are increasing in Norwegian society. It's about many kids leaving primary school without being able to read and write properly. It is about too many young people falling out of high school, and it is about the fact that more and more, and especially young people, are falling out of the labour market in whole or in part. This is the major challenge and the possible new class division in Norway. Otherwise, I have to be allowed to confirm what Solhjell's representative says, that relatively small differences are the result of policies that have been pursued for decades. It is decades when the Right has sat in government – not SV. It is decades when the Right has been in government and has been involved in bringing forward social reforms in Norway that have contributed to relatively small differences becoming a Norwegian value, a Norwegian value that we believe is important to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e530	It is good that Right supports the work done by the government for more education and knowledge in the school, more competence, to prevent disqualification in secondary schools and other areas, because it will also contribute to minor differences in Norway. I note that there are some differences Right will fight against, but clearly no income differences. What we have knowledge of now is that income differences – which is the way one measures this at international level – which increase, have negative consequences for public health and poverty. It creates an increase in social problems and is therefore negative for the central features of Norwegian society. Can I just make it clear: it is good that the Right will fight against other differences where they are some with the government, but can I confirm that the Right wants to increase income differences in Norway, as the State budget proposal to the Right quite clearly states?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e539	I believe that what Solhell's representative is really concerned about is tax policy and not income policy, and income policy is the responsibility of the social partners. The right has always been clear that leaders and those who have a lot are going to show moderation. It's vital for us to get moderate income statements. So I think that that representative, Mr Solhell, is right-wing tax policy. I'd like to talk about it, because what we're proposing in our option is that the biggest tax relief goes to them with low and ordinary incomes, by increasing the minimum deduction. It is important to make it more profitable for more people to work. It has been discovered that for many people it is more profitable to go to social security than to work. If we're going to do something about it, we're going to have to lower the tax for those who have the lowest income. The current government has done nothing to lower the tax on the lowest income. It does the right. Then we reduce the wealth tax to secure jobs, raise the minimum deduction, reduce the tax on those who own businesses. It will help to ensure that more people have a safe job to do and that we can carry the well-being of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e546	The representative Sanner has been trained to be bold, and boldness is now taking new paths. One gets the impression that the Right's income policy, the Right's tax policy, suggests that a person gets a greater degree of jealousy in Norwegian society than is the case today. It is strong to hear how far the Right fiscal spokesman is willing to go in order to try to establish a new language theme that will hide what is the Right Programme, and what one then has to sail for. There is no doubt that the Right is for more market and less cohesion. However, the funding of the tax cut remains constant. It shall be financed primarily through an income agreement concluded between agriculture and the country. My question is, does not Right respect for concluded agreements where the State is a party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e553	It is true that the right to reduce food transfers, while promoting a number of proposals that will contribute to improvements for, among other things. agriculture. It is about our tax cuts, including: by establishing a separate investment fund that will be beneficial to self-employed people in agriculture, by proposing to remove price controls, price regulation and bans, which will contribute to the correct values of agricultural properties. This is an important step in our agricultural policy. Then we propose to change the time when the agricultural settlement is to be concluded, that it should follow the calendar year itself, and that it be concluded before Christmas. Otherwise, I have to say that the red-green parties obviously don't like the scary image you want to draw from the right, they don't match the reality. It's not in line with our proposals, it's not in line with our policy, and it's obviously the desperation you're now looking at the red-green side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e562	There was a lot of recognizable Right-wing policy in Mr Sanner's speech, and there was also a small section on aid policy. I can say that there are certain things that sound better in our ears in the Right Alternative Budget than a cut of over 1 billion. kr in the aid budget. The UK government, which is having even greater challenges than many other governments, has made a significant cut-off list of all, most, sectors. There are probably two sectors that avoid cutting. It's health, and it's help. For me, it's a very strong value signal from the British Government and Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron. How does Sanner interpret the value point that the British government has taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e569	I think that is an important point of view. The right also agrees that we need substantial assistance. In our proposal, the aid is about 0.98 pst. It's a high level, and it's a higher level than when we sat in the same government. So the Right has contributed to and supported a stepping up of assistance even after 2005. What we're doing in our alternative budget is we're concentrating on aid. Norway has been criticised for spreading aid in too many countries and too many projects. We are removing bilateral assistance to Latin America, and we are reducing bilateral assistance to Asia, with the exception of Afghanistan. Then we'll increase aid to Africa. It is an important value point for the Right that we focus our assistance more on the poorest, on those who need it the most. Finally, let me take the opportunity to congratulate the representative of the Syversen on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e578	That congratulations are received by the President, and I think of an overall increase, especially since it happened within the allocated speaking time. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e583	A few years ago, I was visiting a Palestinian refugee camp. I met a woman who was two years younger than I am now, and pregnant with her twelfth child. The family lived in a two-room apartment in the slum. The interpreter we used told her that her own mother had born 16 children; eight of them died. Why does this mention in a financial debate? For a lot of reasons. Lack of equality and respect for women's human rights hinders the development of the economy in large parts of the world. Nevertheless, there are just the objectives of equality and women's right to determine their own bodies that are the thousand-year targets that the world has come short of. A woman dies every minute as a result of unwanted pregnancy, dangerous abortions and complications of pregnancy and childbirth, because women are discriminated against and oppressed. Today, November 25, it is the international day against violence against women. It's okay to lift your eyes a little bit. SV has been a driver for Norway to contribute 1 pst. of our income for assistance. We did it last year, and it's a milestone for Norway. And just as important, it's what we spend the money for. SV has been a driving force for us to spend more of our assistance on women and on climate, for us to address policy-driven issues, such as corruption, tax havens and illegal capital flight, and indigenous rights. SV has been a driving force for us to demand that women have the right to control their own bodies, that we support women who want to participate in the design of the society in which they live. As one of the world's most equal countries, we have a lot to do with. Many listen to us. SV will fight hard against those who believe that this is unnecessary use of money. When the Advance Party cuts a quarter of the foreign budget, some of these important bets are made. We are disappointed that the Right is approaching the Progress Party's way of thinking, with its aid shots. We totally disagree with them that there is no need for support for youth in Haiti, or that Norway should not help violent women in Nicaragua, and we are mildly questioning that our climate settlement partner cuts all support for indigenous people in the Amazon, when there are indigenous peoples to ensure that we achieve the objectives of protecting the rainforest. Norway has many reasons to care about what is happening outside borders. We are a small country, and we are vulnerable, but we can also influence others. It has been exciting to see how many countries have got their eyes on the Norwegian model and how we organise the economy, the working life and the family. Through the financial crisis, Norway has turned back the myth that a large public sector and a relatively high level of taxation hinder growth and development. The right and the Progress Party's raw drive towards the public sector is based on a bluff, a bluff about the public sector as an obstacle to value creation. The truth is that the public sector has acted as a buffer against unemployment and insecurity. The tax-funded welfare state contributes to growth and value creation, and it has been crucial for mobilising our most important resource, namely people – and especially women – to participate in its competence. The public equality policy that the Progress Party will complete and propose massive cuts in next year's budget will arouse enthusiasm in large parts of the world, including among economists. The hated treasure – such as The tax haven, in which the Advance Party will cut so violently, ensures that everyone contributes – is a prerequisite for civilization and community. Several of the countries that for years have cut taxes for the benefit of the capitalists are in a deep crisis today. It's not nice that people are furious. They're the ones who have to pay the price for the government's getting long. It almost doesn't go one day without media posts about violent attacks on the salaries and rights of ordinary people. Several of the countries that are struggling were regarded as market-economy miracles just a short time ago. FrPs have the electoral speed of several of these countries and have presented them as role models for us, as countries we should strive to resemble as closely as possible. SV is proud to have contributed to the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and still relatively small differences between people in Norway, but it is obvious that we have a lot to deal with, and we should. In the next year's budget, we will take important steps: child protection will be better. The absence is going down to Norwegian school. We're going to have a lot of new places to study, give disabled students better conditions and raise teacher education. The parental care needs to be improved, and we need to recruit more people. Business should become greener and get more legs on. More have to be included in the labour market. We're going to get a greener car park and bet on environmental technology. We're going to have more equality. We're going to work on all of this. SV is ready to fight for as much justice as possible, as much community as possible and as much environment as possible. When we compare the different budgetary options, there are some obvious differences that emerge. The cuts in aid to the poor and oppressed of the world have I gone into great detail. The money is to be given to some of the richest in the world. Right, the Progress Party and the Left are starting on the promise they have given to completely cut off the wealth tax. This will make several of Norway’s billionaires zero tax payers. The differences between those who have much, and those who have little, will be greater. Differences between women and men will increase. The willingness to pay taxes will be less for ordinary people. Why should help nurses, teachers and industrial workers pay to the community when the wealthiest of them escape? The removal of property taxes shall create jobs, it is claimed. But we have no guarantee of that. The money may also be used to buy even larger properties, or to land in tax havens abroad. If we take the money through fair taxation, we can use it to stimulate knowledge, research and technology development, health, culture and kindergartens – investments for the future, decided by the community democratically. In addition, the tax havens will cost enormous sums. That money has to be taken from somewhere. So one part is taken from the poorest people in the world. Much is taken from so-called public bureaucracy, such as: The tax haven, which ensures that scoundrels do not escape, which exposes gross economic crime, and which ensures that the community has sufficient resources to finance well-being. Billions of rolls away from the industry in the districts, especially from North Norway – unless we talk oil drilling in the middle of the food barrel; then you are the will yourself. In addition, the Progress Party takes billions from sick, destitute, lonely dependants and other vulnerable groups. One later on, it's like this is money that won't be needed, because the Progress Party would have fixed most of the problems if they had come to power on 1 January 2011. But as SVs Karin Andersen has previously pointed out: we do not believe in recovery by alternative state budget. It also applies this year. SV has been a strong driver for child protection. We earmark large sums for municipal child protection next year because we can't sit and watch that the most vulnerable in our society don't get help in time. Then it's just sad to see how the Right Party and the Advance Party, which next year will give between 60 000 and 113 000 kroner in tax bills to Norway's second richest, brings out the axe and cuts several hundred million in the state child protection. The most vulnerable children in our society become balancing posts. It's true that we have a bureaucracy challenge in state child protection, that's what the Council of State says Lightbaked sail. But if you cut 400 million. SEK or 500 million. kr, we can promise that it is not just unnecessary bureaucracy that is going on. Then hundreds of jobs or maybe a couple of hundreds of institutions or the entire initiative that the government has launched at state foster homes. The outcome of the opposition's proposal will be that fewer children will have the measures they need; there will be longer foster home cows; there will be a lack of good institutional facilities. That is the reality. SV sets exposed children first. We put a lot of money on good growing-up conditions for children because a good childhood lasts for the rest of our lives, and because we view it as investment for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e617	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e620	Business in Norway is screaming for better framework conditions. One of the most important measures to become competitive in relation to other countries is better depreciation rates — something Norwegian business unisont asks for to survive. According to the SV web pages, one of the three best measures for small enterprises is just ‘better depreciation rules to make it easier for businesses to modernise their production’. The central party, which is a government party, says something of the same thing. And as we know from the past, the Progress Party is for it, the Right is for it, I think the Christian People's Party is for it, the Left is for it – so it's a majority for it. Nevertheless, there is no majority when it is voted over here in the Storting. Does the representative of Thorkildsen agree that there is a democratic problem and a huge challenge for Norwegian business that nothing is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e627	That this is a democratic problem, I cannot agree with you, but that is a proposal that should definitely be discussed in the future budgets too, we are in favour. But I want to put some question mark on the reality description that the Progress Party is running forward, namely that Norway is a completely impossible country to run from, that business is almost screaming out of pain every time budgets are presented, and that most people really want to fly out of this country. It's completely wrong. I would recommend reading a chronicle of an economics professor named Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe. She just wrote about it and showed that Norway, in fact with a red-green regime, has climbed four places on the most recognised rankings of how good countries are to operate from. We are the third best country in Europe, just turned off by Switzerland and Sweden. In addition, we are the world's best country to live in, the United Nations. The combination of good terms and conditions for business and that we actually rate on fair taxes is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e635	Another thing I remember, is that the red-green government a few years ago saved Trillemarka, which is an area that hadn't become what it is today if it hadn't been for private landowners who have taken good care of it all year long. In this connection, there has been a separate chewing berry police in the last two years, according to Drammen’s Official Journal – there is something Drammen’s Official Journal writes. It is not Securitas guards, but an experienced police officer with a background from Økokrim who has the only task to care for the area. In fact, there are three relevant positions. In addition to a trained policeman, there is a person from the State Department and a person in charge of Trillemarka. At the same time, we know that there are very many jobs that are unoccupied. Now this position is unoccupied, it becomes vacant. The position is announced again, while all other positions in the police are not occupied because there is not enough money. Can the representative Thorkildsen tell me what kind of serious issues are being investigated in this forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e642	I'm sorry, I can't, actually. On the other hand, I can say a little about why it is important to have a proper protection of areas in Norway, and that we have an offensive protection policy that also facilitates sensible use, which makes people happy in the areas and stands up and takes care of them in the future. There we have, among other things: has been given a new natural diversity law that is entirely historical, and which ensures that we now have a completely different approach to protection than we had before, where we not only have passive territorial protection, but where we also go in and look at, among other things. the threat to species. With regard to Ecocrim, I have to say that they will have very great challenges if the Progress Party reaches with its proposals for cuts, among other things. in the tax haven, in the Tolletaten and in part of the supervision that helps us to prevent crime. Ecocrime is really going to run with the budgets that the Progress Party is putting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e651	It was not so easy to get an eye on SV's policy in Thorkildsen's articles. She talked mostly about the Right Party and the Advance Party. So I'm going to take her to the word on it. 2010 is the year in which SV apologized to the poor, after the proportion of the poor in Norway has increased during their period of government. 2010 and 2011 are also the years when the number of young people under the age of 24 is rising quite sharply. In its alternative state budget, the right has proposed an organisation guarantee for people with disabilities who want to enter the labour market. The problem for very many people with disabilities when they come to work is that employers are skeptical about how this should work. The right-hand side suggests that they have an Air Operator's Certificate that says there is no problem, the state pays the cost of organisation whether you're blind, has a wheelchair, or whatever it may be. Why do SV and Inga Marte Thorkildsen vote for an organisation guarantee for disabled people?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e660	Some of the suggestions that the Right has, relating to the disabled, do we think in SV is good. Then there are some of the proposals that the Right has, which are very bad, for example. the proposal to facilitate temporary employment in the labour market. We think that weighs up quite thoroughly for some of the proposals that the Right promotes that are positive for the disabled. As for the question of disability, I would like to be allowed to cancel one of the myths that the Right Jumps around and tells, namely, that there is an explosion almost in the number of young people suffering. Actually, that's not true. Since 2001, there have been 94 new cases of young people under the age of 30. It's actually not so many, and if we go in and look at what kind of diseases these people have, then there's good reason to be quite humble about the situation they're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e667	Other people who are relatively humble to stand in red-green queues are those who actually have major drug problems. Under the red-green government, since 2006, there are now 4,000 people who can work every day, with their families, instead of getting restless. The government has not managed to do anything about the queue. The right has a rehabilitation package that does something both to help the private detoxification institutions and the private treatment institutions, but also to improve the ability of municipalities to buy services to help provide people with a day-to-day rest. It's quite alarming with the tone that Thorkildsen has when it comes to the care of Russo, when we're going to experience later today that the government and SV are going to vote against Right 100 million. NOK 400 million for the rural environment. kr to a wide package for increased bet on rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e674	I am not quite sure what tone the representative Mr Kambe is talking about, because I have not really been given the opportunity to reply yet. What I can say is that we are very humble in the matter of care. There are major challenges. Some of it is about the need for money, but organizing is a very important challenge. It's clear that when people who have a long-term drug addiction finally get in to detoxification, and then come out of there again and have to stand in a longer queue before they get into long-term treatment, there's a lot of people who jump off in the meantime and can't stand in it. The fact that a lot of people don't feel that they have a proper follow-up or something meaningful to do with, for example, if they do. have entered an offer of medically assisted rehabilitation, which is also a recipe that will be bad for very many. So here we need a variety of bets in the future, among other things. social entrepreneurship. There we come with our own pot for next year. We're very happy about that, but we'd like to work together to make care better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e681	The representative of Thorkildsen has a strong commitment to the conversion of taxes in a greener direction. In the State budget, the government proposes to maintain half the so-called user charge on biodiesel. Bioethanol is charged a full charge in the case of low mixing but no charge in the case of high incorporation. Biogas and other alternative fuels are generally exempted. The government’s justification for the user charge is that the drivers pay for the costs they incur to the Community through road wear and tear and accident. But there is no consistent charging policy in this area, and a direct consequence of the government's winging is that producers have had to shut down operations, and that bets are put in reverse. My question is: does the representative agree that the government has something to do with green and consistent tax conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e690	The answer to that is yes. Some of the background to the fact that we have been very concerned that we have to prepare a long-term run for the car charges is that the discussion about biodiesel last year and part of the uncertainty that spread among those who wanted to bet in particular on the zero-emission options showed the need for us to now make a long-term race that makes it predictable, and that people know about what they have to deal with. But we also say that we need to secure the community's income from car use in the future, for example. because car use leads to very many unfortunate consequences for people, among other things. in the cities. I am absolutely sure that the Christian People's Party agrees. To the question of whether you have something to go on, I would say that the Christian People's Party also has a little to do with ensuring predictability in its policy, because before that one wanted to give cash support to those who bought cars that released less than 120 grams of CO2 per kilometer. Luckily, that's gone away from now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e700	SV has had a very high profile in the case of the gas power plant in Norway. They have repeatedly promised in their faith and honour that the gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad would be cleaned from day one, at least from day 1001. The gas power plant at Kårstø stands there and emits large amounts of greenhouse gases, as the representative knows. No krone has been allocated for the implementation of any recovery plans in the budget for which SV is voting today. A few weeks ago, the news also came that the government will allocate nearly one million free climate allowances to the operation of the gas power plant at Mongstad in the next two years – a pure subsidy of around 150 million. kr of a highly polluting gas power plant that SV promised to clean from day one. My question to Thorkildsen is: what is Thorkildsen's answer to that? So here you're going to fail first what you've promised, and then you're going to subsidize.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e709	With regard to the question of cleaning up gas power plants, it is quite clear that we have encountered a number of sections of the sea in the course of the project, but nevertheless we have reason to be proud that we have put massive effort into getting the clean-up of CO2 from gas power plants so high on the international agenda. It's one of our most important areas of activity still. The left has contributed to it through the climate agreement and should also be pleased with it. The cooperation that we can have on continuing to stand up to the clean-up of CO2 emissions from both gas and coal needs to be achieved if we are to be able to cope with climate change. We should continue to agree on this. We are going to fight for as much money as possible for this also in the future, but some of the breakthroughs we have made, among other things. in the EU, on the basis of the work we have done in Norway, there is no need to be dissatisfied with it. On the contrary, there is reason to be proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e722	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e726	After our refusal to join the European Union, our place in the international picture could be seen in two ways. We could view ourselves as isolated or as a maritime and resource-rich country with great freedom of action. The perspective of the centre party is the last one, and we are committed to using the freedom of action that Norway has, to ensure democracy, environmental protection, decentralisation, homonymous relations between peoples and international solidarity. The Central Party is working for a maritime Norway in a Europe open to the whole world, where free nations with different economic systems develop close and committed cooperation. Norway is a small country with a very open economy. The combination of a resource-rich country, a high level of participation in labour and a strong political tradition based on generosity among peoples has over time provided great welfare improvements for most people, as well as profits both on trade balance and on government budgets. We are uniquely privileged internationally. This tradition is preserved and further developed, inter alia. through each year’s government budget. The central party as a party of government in a majority government has a great responsibility in a leadership that must combine root and wing fixings. In our view, foreign policy issues relating to security and trade policy are becoming much more demanding in the future as a result of a financial crisis that is now moving into new and even more demanding phases, both for the international forums and for the nation-state, which have democratic responsibility for the security of the population. The international financial crisis is a result of many decades of economic policy based on an ideology of free flow of capital. The Nobel Prize winner of the economy James Tobin called for a levy on foreign exchange and financial transactions as early as 1978. On my own visit to the Research Department of the International Monetary Fund in Washington in 1995, I learned that they were fully aware of the risks of this new economic policy, which began to develop around 1980. Increasing risks of instability should be mitigated by the IMF's work on Early Warning and land analysis of the economy for, as they said, to give a good warning of what is in sight. We now learn that at best the weather forecaster has not reached out with his message to central heads of state. With concern we now see in Norway how the international economy is developing. Large countries with persistent trade deficits and government budgets contribute to the shocks of international security and trade policy. This is bound to have consequences for Norway and our population. However, based on our sound economic situation, the impact of the latter and weaker than that of the countries that are now experiencing the financial crisis is turning into a national debt crisis. One of the main challenges for political leadership in debt-removal countries is that the population understands that there is a large bill to be paid. As a result, both businesses and individuals are increasing their savings and thereby reducing their consumption, whether public incentives were intended to work in the opposite direction, namely increasing private consumption. In this situation, the red-green government is presenting a government budget for 2011 that is tight but provides the basis for welfare improvements in most departments. Our most demanding challenges are from the view of the Centre Party in relation to the environmental and climate challenges, the interaction of nature, our ability to use the whole country, decentralisation, the transformation of our business life into an increased focus on renewable natural resources providing products and services with a high value content, as well as an increased focus on the institutional conditions in society that contribute to greater economic, social and cultural self-sufficiency among the Norwegian people. Many ask the question of where the oil money has become in the last decade. The answer is mainly public welfare improvements and an outstanding private purchasing power improvement for those with a strong job and business position. This has been, and is, a broad political consensus. The big question, however, is what now? What about Norway’s further level of consumption and costs in relation to international challenges? The government parties here in Stortinget support the government's government budget for 2011. The rapporteur, Mr Micaelsen, has explained the many important increases in the budget. The centre party focuses strongly on the ability of municipalities to provide a good welfare offer, the reduction of distance costs by improving communications, the transition to a more green business and tax based on ability, as well as a more sober development of real income for individuals. The majority position of the Financial Committee shows that we have expressed our concrete impatience in two key areas, first of all, the transformation of business in a more forward-looking green direction. In particular, we focus here on keeping appropriations for Innovation Norway at a high level, where investment aid for environmental technologies, including the development of 2nd generation biofuels and the eco-innovation programme, are important contributions. We are particularly concerned that the programme will contribute to the creation of new jobs in Norway in particular. new energy technologies, climate-friendly fuels and other technologies that reduce climate and environmental emissions. The Government majority will continue to facilitate the industrial development of 2nd generation biofuels in Norway based on the processing of renewable carbon molecules in biorefineries. Incentives to engage in the commercialisation of new production processes are central to this work, while the aided enterprises have the necessary own capacity to implement them. An important part of the solution to the climate noise is photosynthesis with the ability of plants to absorb carbon dioxide from the air. Its better growth capacity we give plants through our biological knowledge, the better for climate. This in turn will increase the production of plants and trees that we need, and that will replace carbon from non-renewable carbon sources. There are enormous positive perspectives here. In this context, it is strongly felt that the Right Party and the Progress Party, through their budget proposals, show that they are in a brutal financial way countering the many operators in primary plant production who have this role in today’s and future business life. They propose dramatic cuts in already concluded agreements where the State is a party. The second area in which the majority of the Committee expresses impatience is the follow-up to the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The appropriations for NTP road, rail and sea transport purposes increase by 2.6 billion. kr compared to the level in the 2010 budget. The majority of governments point out that this is in line with the previously communicated escalation of NTP, but emphasises, however, that it appears as a demanding task to realise all projects in the current transport plan. It's an important task in central government to get the most out of every penny. The various departments, Directorates, Supervisory Authorities and State undertakings are required here to strive for the highest possible quality within their respective agreed framework. Technological developments enable the public to save money in some areas, which can be used for other and more desirable purposes if a simple and clear policy strategy with concrete objectives for individual enterprises is presented from a political point of view. The central party will stress the importance of more political action to renew the public sector. The Minister of Finance highlighted the efficiency process of the State Loan Fund for Education at the time of the submission of the State budget. The centre lot will underline this as a good example where, in modernising the Loan Box, one achieved both higher quality, reduced processing time, a reduction in operating costs of 50 million. kr in relation to the 2005 level and reduction in the number of annual works of 70 at the head office of Oslo. We see that such processes take time, that it has to start in the small, and that some of the savings can be used by the enterprise to complete the renewal. A key point in this process will be clear responsibilities between different public agencies in, for example, the maintenance of key information on the actual situation of persons. The government's draft budget shows in a good way the possibility of improving efficiency in the agricultural sector, for example, where it is proposed to increase the efficiency of 34 million. kr to ensure the best possible framework for what is most important. The administrative budget for Innovation Norway also cut it. That review must continue in more and more key areas. The calculation of commuting costs was simplified in the 1990s by a rule where the travel distance housing and mileage were the point. This simplification was much appreciated, not least in the tax haven. Special deductions for large costs of disease are now an example of a case that is over-ripe for simplification. It should be possible to make different economic templates based on medical diagnosis of tax deductions and/or reimbursement by the State. This awaits, for example: many diabetics. Today, the Grand Duchy adopts changes in the taxation of pensions to adapt to the Pension Reform. With the new pension scheme, it will be easier to combine work and pensions for those who have the opportunity to do so. The new taxation of pensions gives, in the view of the Centre Party, a fairer distribution of the tax burden on pensions paid between the lowest and highest pensions paid. About 70 pst. next year, the AFP and old-age pensioners will receive a tax relief as a result of the changes. Overall, there is a large tax burden and there will be transitional arrangements for existing pensioners with low tax capacity. As part of the evaluation of the tax reform, the Ministry of Finance shall assess whether the tax rules treat individual and limited liability companies in a non-discriminatory manner. different financial responsibilities. A scheme in which the income of individual enterprises can be set aside in a fund scheme will be considered. One will look at differences in social rights between employees and individuals. The government will present this in the 2012 government budget. There is important reform work for a versatile business with many seafaring entrepreneurs, for whom many speak hotly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e770	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e773	My claim is that the governments in which the Central Party has sat have weakened District Norway year after year. They have proposed more money to farmers, but no structural changes. What have they achieved these years? Yes, every year there will be fewer farmers. And the fewer farmers have to carry more and more bureaucrats on their backs. They have had strong economic governance on the policy with a focus on taxes and taxes. What have they achieved with that? Still greater differences: the rich have become richer and the poor poorer. Then they've achieved something else, and that's what the last numbers from the Nordic countries showed: increasing deportation from District Norway. They keep going the same way. So they're running on more of the medicine that leads to this, and they think it's going to solve the problems. Then I wonder why they don't change their policy and do something that gives the people good: a lower rate of petrol and diesel to the population in the districts and the construction of new roads that don't have to be paid through tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e786	It's no coincidence that it's the Center Party that has the greatest credibility in district policy. It shows all opinion measurements. What is referred to is the efforts of the Centre Party. We act like an otter, to say it in that language, in every context, to ensure that the anchoring is maintained. What is now the big challenge is to provide well-paid work and secure jobs in the districts to well-trained young people. The core is to process the natural resources of which the districts have so much, not least the renewable natural resources, through industrial processes and other production processes, and to strengthen communications, so as to reduce distance costs. There are two core areas for which the Centre Party is working, and we are putting our clear footprints on the budget adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e793	I thought to continue to focus on the lack of money in the police and the priorities of the government. A great many positions in the police are, as I said, unconvinced. Only in the Northern Buskerud police district, where Lundtägen is from, there are between 15 and 20 unoccupied posts because there is not enough money to announce the positions. At the same time, it accumulates unsolved, serious, ugly and sad criminal cases. The tweezer policeman in Trillemarka, as I referred to earlier today, has resigned his position. Unlike all the unoccupied jobs that are not advertised, this position is again announced. Had Lundtigen had police training, so maybe there would have been something for him. But what I'm asking is whether the representative from Buskerud can tell me what this policeman's specific duties have been. How many serious and sad criminal cases in the forest are being investigated? Why does the government feel that such a position should be protected? And why can't this policeman be used on other known, serious criminal cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e802	The position referred to here was part of the overall agreement concluded between the community and the Stortinget in the context of the protection of Trillemarka. What was the question, what administration would you have of Trillemarka nature reserve? We have the State's natural oversight, and we have the police, the L.A.S. Department, with their duties. It was a strong desire of the community that one should have a close link between the oversight and security of the values that lay there and the local police authority. The person in charge shall also contribute to the regular police work in the surrounding areas in order to ensure that there is security and development in line with what is Norwegian law and what is provided by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e807	The representative Lundtigen is as always the best when he talks about what the government should have done, instead of what it does. That's pretty interesting. Last year we received a biodiesel tax, and the result is that Synergos has now been cancelled. Last year, it was to be compensated by research funds. This year, people who were supposed to do the research have been killed. Then the representative Lundtigen goes out in the Financial Newspaper and says he's going to become a stockbroker, and that he's going to raise capital for those who want to bet on it. I wonder what's going on with Lundteigen as a stockbroker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e814	I think that must be a misunderstanding. I don't recognize that. That in some situation I may have expressed myself that way, is reasonably distant from my experience background and my dreams for the future! On the other hand, it is very central that the Centre Party, I and the government are a driving force to come up with public, positive economic instruments to ensure that we can get commercialised new production processes that provide environmentally friendly products. We are very proud that Innovation Norway now has such a programme going on. We're very proud that it might help Borregaard to commercialize new production processes, and it's a company that's capable of implementing this. We're in front of this, experiencing that the Right is with us, and that's nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e821	Yeah, then we'll see how it works, because it's obvious that this took away a pretty great opportunity for a lot of the primary industry in Norway. Since the representative Lundtägen is also very involved in capital, it must appear as a paradox for the Central Party that since 2005 it has been involved in doubling the wealth tax on working capital. It is a tax that affects primary industries quite hard. And it is well done that, in the light of it, the representative Lundtigen is able to present the alternative budget of the Right as dramatic in relation to agriculture. I dare say it's just a change of direction. We want more independent farmers. But how does Lundtegen see a doubling of the wealth tax on working capital in view of the fact that both the Bondelag, the Skogeibundet and Norskog are part of the grouping that works hard to eliminate taxes on wealth on working capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e830	Firstly, there are unparalleled positive perspectives for all those who are involved in green plants in Norway. That's what I said in my post, and I stand by that. We'll see that there's a lot of positive going forward, not least internationally. Point 2: That’s right — The Right Party and the Advance Party propose a dramatic deterioration in the agricultural economy in Norway, but are now trying to present it as no, it’s not weakening; it’s opposite reinforcement. The representative of Gundersen can go out to the professionals and ask what their answer is, and whether they understand politics in such a distorted way. So that was the issue of working capital and property taxes. I have said that many times: Property taxes are an additional tax on labourless income in addition to a certain size. That's the historical basis. The capital that does not provide a non-unemployed income is not the right thing to tax wealth. On the other hand, financial assets should be taxed more than a certain level, since there is no work by the person with the financial capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e839	The Bondevik II government has invested heavily in moving state supervision out of Oslo. Eight oversight and close to a thousand state jobs were transferred throughout the country. Unfortunately, the red-green government has not followed up this policy. During the Red-Green government, Oslo-Centralisation has shot more speed than ever, and it has always been the main responsibility of the Central Party for district policy. This is disappointing. The importance of shifting supervision to regions outside the Oslo area is high in relation to regional development. Figures from the SSB in 2009 show that Oslo, Akershus and Hordaland have received more than half, 56 pst, of new state jobs in the last four years. During this government period, it has been decided to relocate, or re-establish, 450 State jobs. Is the representative Lundteg satisfied with this effort regarding the relocation of state jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e847	The answer is simple: we are not satisfied. We were very pleased that the former government moved more supervision out of Oslo. It's possible to do it to those degrees, because there are office jobs, there are competence jobs that have great opportunities to work outside Oslo. We know that if we have a combination of modern technology and political will, it is not least possible to achieve this. We in the Center Party think it might be easier to do that in connection with the conversion and construction of new organizational forms, so that there is less personal burden on those who are attached to the building today. But the answer is: we are impatient in this area and are working purposefully to get more of this type of jobs spread across the country by getting modern communications related to resource-rich people, which we now have across the country through a well-developed education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e856	The representative Lundtegegen made a memorable contribution to the last financial debate, one year ago, where he spoke entirely of biodiesel. Among other things, Lundtigen said: ‘In the financial situation of the red-green government parties, 100 million. kr earmarked for the conversion of our wood processing industry, so that we can start building several plants for 2nd generation biofuels based on wood. In the wood processing language, this is referred to as 2nd generation biodiesel or timber diesel and bioethanol or wood spirits. This is good, and it is a cautious start to a new epoch from the Government.’ This new era led to a company that Lundteigen had to explicitly save, now being wound up, as the representative Gundersen also said. Lundtigen ended his post last year with the following: ‘However, a government that does not arouse enthusiasm and hope for the future of the many propagandists of the alliance will be weary rather soon.’ So my question to Lundtigen is: Is this government getting confused, as Lundtigen predicted last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e873	With regard to the theme covered here, namely biofuels, the government has shown in the submitted budget this year that it has corrected the price at that point. One has not increased the biodiesel charge to the level that was said last year that one should do. This is said to be a change that not least the opposition has to notice. For the centre party and for me, Synergo was an example of a company that was not to be saved, but was to be developed. Unfortunately, the situation turned out to be that the economic foundation of this company, and the technology it built on, was too weak together to allow as commercially possible further development of the company, despite the fact that it should have come under the investment support programme that the government provided through Innovation Norway. So here the main reason was the lack of economic base in Synergo and a technology that turned out to be too weak in relation to alternative technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e883	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e886	After all, we are approaching Advent and Christmas, and with regard to the budgetary process under the current government, it may be a bit tempting to draw a parallel to the well-known Countess and Mayor. It is largely ‘the same procedure as last year’. Every year there is a fairly liberal economic space that allows the government to give a little too much. Each year, the Grand Duchy's hearings and proceedings here in the Chamber will make little or no difference to the government's original proposal. This year I think it's a little under 1 per million, or around there. And every year this means that what is so far a good starting point remains good. But it could have been a lot better, if you had been willing to listen a little bit more. Now it should be said that at least this year the courtmaster has not stumbled as violently as he did during last year’s biodiesel affair. On the contrary, the government should have a propensity to add to a reasonably tight budget, which could bring the use of oil money back to the 4 pst track of action next year. Especially with regard to the situation in more and more European countries — it is only to look at developments in Ireland in the last few days — we understand that we are in an extremely fortunate situation here at home. But it assumes that we have the power to conduct a responsible economic policy, which also provides stability and predictability for business. In this way I could wish for a far more offensive government in terms of increased value creation. There may be investments in road and rail, better tax FUNN scheme, removal of the inheritance tax for family businesses and halving the employer’s fee for new apprentices, as some examples, to ensure that we still have a good and safe business life that we can borrow from in the future. The alternative government budget of the Christian People's Party has about the same oil money use as the government, but a clearer profile for creating, in our opinion, a warmer society – a society that takes better care of the elderly and those who have at least before, a society that also provides better facilities for families with children, voluntary organisations and small businesses. The elderly are a clear priority for the Christian People's Party in this budget. We're proposing 1 billion. extra to ensure a more dignified care for the elderly: more sick places and more opportunities for the elderly to have quality of life in their last days. These are important elements of the agreement on a guarantee of dignity for the care of the elderly, which the Christian People's Party concluded with the government parties and the Left in 2007. Local authorities must be compensated for the increased costs involved. We also want to make progress in setting up daily services for residents. This is a neglected group, just seven pst. has such an offer today. A good community for children is a guarantee of security for society on the other hand. It's also a society that will be good for everyone. Children are vulnerable. They need secure frameworks, and they need good care. Safe growth is not just about cash support and more and better kindergartens, which the Christian People's Party naturally prioritises in this budget. It's not least about how we take care of the most vulnerable children. In January of this year, 180 children were in line for a foster home. The Christian People's Party will therefore grant money, so that you can solve this particular situation for a vulnerable group. We also want to grant 100 million. in addition to the government's proposal to strengthen the State's child protection and an additional 200 million. kr to municipal child protection. The serious discrimination against students and other parents who have not earned parental leave must cease. It is unimportant that these parents are offered a one-off benefit of NOK 35000, while parents who have earned the right to parental leave may receive over NOK 400000. A report from the Rikshospitalet shows that half of Norwegian Oslo women under the age of 25 who become pregnant choose to have an abortion. The report's author, Professor Anne Eskild, believes that there is a clear link between poor finances and choosing abortion. The schemes encourage fewer and later births and give the impression that the children of workers are more welcome than children of returnees and students. Like former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, the Christian People's Party cannot understand that there are no more people who see this unreasonable hole in our welfare state. We therefore propose to increase the one-off benefit by birth and adoption to NOK 75 000 and have a target of increasing it to NOK 150000 by 2013. We also want a new school policy course. In recent years, the government has prioritised errors by spending billions of hours of instruction. We believe that the teacher is the school's most important resource, and will therefore spend the big money on the teachers. We want to increase the teacher's density. We also want a more ambitious commitment to continuing training for teachers. In addition, the Christian People's Party is focusing on quality development in high school, community and voluntary educational assistance, measures against high school drop-outs and school health services. Higher education is strengthened from our side by investing in several scholarship positions, better guidance for students, better professional training practices and 25 billion. kr more to the Research Fund. It is still too many poor people in our country. We are, therefore, increasing the appropriations for poverty and poverty interventions by over 1.5 billion. kr. With more than 4 000 people in line for drug treatment, it is a mystery to me how the government does not give priority to this year's budget so that this queue can decrease and not increase. The Christian People's Party is a hot defender of one of the most important carriers in our society, namely the voluntary organizations. That's what's needed. The Government proposes that smaller communities of faith and life should lose the gift-deduction scheme and consequently the amount of the deduction should not be extended. We're doing something about this in our alternative budget. So to something we've had a long debate about in this hall this fall. We are in a situation where ideal health and care institutions are falling apart under the red-green regime. The public expands its offerings while large commercial players take over an increasingly large proportion of what many today call ‘market shares’. However, in the health and care sector, not everything is suitable for market thinking, competitive thinking and price focus. Russ users, child-restraint children and the elderly who use these services need first and foremost stability, long-term care and dignified treatment. Nevertheless, we see – and that under a red-green regime – that market thinking is changing. It's not a nice sight. The last example from this city is Oslo Hospital – a specialised, psychiatric offer for perhaps the heaviest users. Health South-East is raging the offer. They put a line over hundreds of years of work at this institution. The Minister of Health is sitting and watching, doing absolutely nothing. In addition to the matters I have already mentioned, the Christian People's Party prioritises increased assistance to poor countries, a marked greener tax profile and renewable energy investment. With regard to the impoverishment that goes beyond our own borders, I have to say that in a situation where very many other countries cut their aid budgets, it would only be lacking if Norway did not take its share of responsibility and increase its share of this effort. I have to say that it is really disappointing to experience that the parties in this room choose to use it as a balancing post. I wish that this budgetary procedure had given some more results – from the presentation of the budget until we finish here later, tonight. I guess that's about 100 million. kr with which something is done. And a lot of the things that change on -- that prom -- are good. I see that some of the proposals for confusion are similar to those made in our alternative budget, so I guess you've looked a little bit here and there. But I must say that the budget procedure of the Storting has still been, what to say, a rather strange procedure, where very little is actually happening. In the long term, I don't think that's an advantage for our democracy. I am addressing our proposals and the proposals we are promoting with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e931	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e936	On the basis of many suggestions, at the latest today, where the two largest parties on the civil side then until those degrees say that they have found each other and have become proscissors – not least in tax policy have they found each other – it is gratifying to see that the Christian People's Party, unlike the other bourgeois parties, does not have tax relief to the richest at the top of its priority list. What other fundamental differences does the representative Syversen see between his party and, for example: The party of progress? And does the Christian People's Party, with its alternative budget, place itself closer to the government parties than the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e943	I have noticed that the figures of the government parties have had a great deal of joy in today's VG. It has probably been up in seven-eight lines so far, so VG is probably happy to be quoted as much as they have been in today's financial debate. As for the location in the political landscape, I can calm, secure or warn – as you can see – the representative Kristoffersen by saying that we are safely planted in the center. In fact, I have no need to relate the budgets of all other parties to our budget. We're clear on our option. Then we record that there are similarities and differences in the government's proposals and proposals that the other opposition parties have promoted. It is probably the way it tends to be, as it was under the government of Bondevik II, and as it is under this government, to promote their respective proposals. We're a center party and we're going to stay there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e950	The representative Syversen said in a previous line change that there was a lot of recognizable right-wing policy in Mr. Sanner's posts. The right will, as you know, cooperate with all opposition parties. It has come out clearly. The Christian People's Party is an opposition party to the Red-Green Government, and in many individual cases the opposition stands together. In terms of regional and regional policy, however, I need to know where the Christian People's Party is in relation to other opposition parties. Right proposes dramatic cuts in regional development funds, more specifically 1.5 billion. kr, and has as its objective the long-term closure of the county. The same is true of the Progress Party. They're a guarantor of that. How strong is the County Municipality and District Policy in the Christian People's Party – is the Christian People's Party a guarantor of the County Municipality, and is it worth fighting for?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e959	I don't know if in people's consciousness it's the county council that's the first thing you think about when you move towards what's important in society. I am most concerned that the tasks to be carried out by the county municipality are being carried out in a good way. We are for a regional part in our governance of this country, I think that the representative Opheim is fully in the clear. As far as district policy is concerned, I also have to say that we almost have to return a little. The representative of Thürmer wrote an article here about the ambitious goals of the government parties, and how little result you can actually show when it comes to the problem. For me, it is more important to refer to results than to which heading one puts on the individual unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e967	I too would like to join in the series of congratulations: Congratulations on the day! I want to address a question that concerns assistance. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party also has a strong focus on aid, and that it has also become aware that the issue of capital flight is important in order to ensure the developing potential of the developing countries themselves. But what I took up in my main post, and we're very concerned about, is the question of women's reproductive rights. I'm going to think that even the Christian People's Party has a little bit of problems in being able to join in full to a line where we work internationally from the government's side to women, among other things. shall be able to choose to have an abortion. Or is it that the Christian People's Party sees the need to settle with some of the religious forces, both Christians and Muslims, which now threaten women's ability to control their own bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e976	If I first take a few words about Norfund, for example, as part of the government's policy to perhaps contribute to development in many countries that really need development, then the representative Thorkildsen there can look a little bit at what opportunities the government sees to make sure that this instrument does not actually invest from tax havens. Then I've given that greeting back. As far as women's reproductive rights are concerned, I believe that the representative Thorkildsen and a unanimous increase respect the right of each country to decide its own law on the legal protection of the unborn life. So that doesn't mean you don't. to look at projects that contribute to getting good conditions around assembly – we are all for that – but we do not intend to come from Norway and tell other countries how to deal with abortion legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e983	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party are two parties which traditionally believe in local democracy. They are both parties that I perceive stand straight up to the requirement of government regulation and detailed management. In the Christian People's Party program, you can read that one will establish local democracy and that one wants the state to govern the municipalities mainly through the frameworks. When one reads the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, one will see that the Christian People's Party has let itself be lured into the trap of ringing, and actually has a total of 30 billion. kr more earmarked than the government has in its proposal. My question is, does not the Christian People's Party have faith in local democracy and the ability of local people elected to prioritize money in at least as good a way as we do in this room?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e992	Yes, we do. The representative Pollestad mentions the 30 billion; it's mainly because we don't include the nursery allowance. And why don't we? There are several reasons for this. Among other things, it is because we still do not have equivalent treatment for private and public kindergartens. Before it's fully in place, we don't think it's a good idea to include the nursery allowance, because it's going to go beyond the private kindergartens and the smaller kindergartens that we absolutely need. But if the government could present a scheme that ensured it, the situation could be somewhat different. And another point: When the government presented its criteria for the distribution of the nursery allowance, what did we see? Well, the municipalities that have a large degree of workers and people with low education in their municipalities are punished by the red-green government through a lower orphanage grant than other municipalities. I think a lot of people in the red-green camp are also wondering how to defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e999	Now I'm so lucky – or what word I'm going to use, but today I'm going to be out – that I live in a municipality that's run by a rapporteur from the Christian People's Party. The municipality shall remain until the next elections. The representative mentions kindergartens, but also in other areas, there is a lax temptation to earmark funds, for example. at a life course. Then my question is: what makes the representative Syversen better able to give priority to the private and smaller kindergartens, and is better able to give priority to funding for a course of life than the rapporteur from the Christian People's Party, Arnfinn Vigrestad, in Time Municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1006	When I now heard who is rapporteur in Pollestad's municipality, I fully agree that he is lucky! I'm aware he's not taking re-election. But he's having fun in the last few months, at least! So once again for the nursery allowance and for a life course: if the nursery allowance and the criteria for distributing it to the municipalities had been fair, we would also have said that then we are absolutely willing to look at a transfer via the framework. With regard to the cost of living, we see that the transfer actually leads to a breakdown. This is so small that the individual municipality will very often not make the offer, because it is simply not adapted to a municipality size that we have. That's why we think it's one of the areas where it's perfectly reasonable that we have central grants, also because a lot of people who use these grants are non-governmental organisations, and they're not run by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1015	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1018	The 2011 alternative government budget of the Left has some clear priorities and a strong political will to give priority to the future. The five main priorities of the left are: a multi-job, in particular in the eco-innovation and climate-friendly business, combined with a multi-working policy, both through the tax system and through budget commitment, a strong and targeted focus on research and education, a continuous strengthening and focus on environment and climate-friendly solutions, with a particular focus on rail, public transport and measures to reduce Norwegian climate change poverty reduction, especially among children and young people a much more environmentally friendly and health-friendly tax and tax policy; The Norwegian economy is still in a special position in the international context. We have come out of the financial crisis better than most countries. But Norwegian economy is totally dependent on the world around us. Our economic fate depends to a large extent on the success of other countries in their economic policies. The main criticism of the government's draft budget is that there is no direction towards, or some political priorities that show a clear direction into, the future. The government's draft budget is in isolation good enough for 2011, but is absent from future challenges in areas such as knowledge, environment and value creation. These are the areas left choose to spend the big money on. We therefore propose a targeted effort in almost all areas to create more jobs and to get more people working. In particular, we have many targeted measures for self-employed people, both on the tax side through simplification measures and proposals for better social arrangements. It does not benefit with much rhetoric to develop the welfare state, if the whole foundation of the welfare state is confused. We must have increased value creation, and we must have more from social benefits to work, we must be able to maintain good welfare arrangements for future generations as well. A good example of government’s misguided priorities is that, instead of giving more and better teachers priority, the government spends the large amount of school money on statutory homework and half a course, and expanding school day with non-existent teachers. Instead, the left will spend about 0.5 billion. on measures to enhance the competence and recruitment of teachers. In addition, we have a focused effort to get more specialised educators and more health professionals into school, so that teachers are able to free up as much resources as possible for teaching. The left also proposes increased investment in research, universities and higher education with over 1 billion. kr. The left is at the climate agreement, but we're not sure if the government parties are doing the same thing. In reality, the state budget topping that is being given a majority today suggests that Norwegian CO2 emissions will increase in 2011. The left cannot accept this. That's why we're proposing a powerful red to green tax conversion of 5.6 billion. kr. Contamination must be less profitable. Gas power stations to be cleaned from day one shall not be allowed to pollute nearly free of charge, as the government parties will do, and the Left also proposes an overall commitment to environmental and climate action of 2,7 billion. kr, of which an important and targeted contribution to public transport and railway development is €1.2 billion. kr. I want to give the SV right at an important point. One of the most important poverty measures we can do is to increase social assistance rates and to have a government-defined minimum standard. The problem with SV – and in particular with the rest of the government parties – is that such policies are consistently opposed in Stortinget. The left suggests using 815 million. kr to increase social assistance rates, so that a single social welfare beneficiary with one child gets about NOK 1500 more to travel with each month. There may be a crucial difference in quality of life and not least in self-esteem. Finally, I take up the many suggestions made by the Left in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1054	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1059	Today we have heard a lot about the turtledoves in the Right and the Progress Party who want to cooperate, but in the Newspaper we could also read that the Right-leader would like to have Left on this great collaboration. However, in the previous ageing period, the late party leader Lars Sponheim guaranteed that Left would not cooperate on the state budget with a government in which the Progress Party is involved. I wonder whether this promise is still fixed for the Left, or does the Left open for a cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1068	Unfortunately, that answer is not given to the representative Eldegard here today, and I don't think she would have expected that either. Now it's like today we're presenting our alternative budget, a budget that I'm actually very proud of. We've worked hard on the budget. There is no money for which we do not have a deposit – there are no expenses for which we do not have a deposit – and I feel that we have a clear profile in terms of value creation. I know that the representative Eldegard is very concerned about just the business sector, so I would like her to influence her government to bet more on entrepreneurship, on entrepreneurs and on the business community than she has done now. Once again, it's long to the next choice. We run our policies, the Left's policy, without going to any side, and we also cooperate well with the Labour Party in many situations, including: in the case of the climate agreement, the welfare guarantee and miscellaneous aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1078	I want to follow up with the representative Tende – the issues on which we work. The left suggests about the same framework for the economy as the government, about the same oil money use also in the 2011 budget. This suggests that the Left believes that the government has adopted a good approach to meeting economic developments in the future. My question is simply: does the Left feel that they have more in common with the Labour Party and the government parties than with the Progress Party in economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1087	Again, we have a lot in common with the Workers' Party. We have cooperated well with them in the areas that I mentioned to the representative of Eldegard instead. The climate agreement is a shining example of how we can achieve good and long-term solutions. It's actually quite important that you get good, solid and long-term solutions, so it's left-hand. But when it comes to being in government with e.g. The working party, if that is what the representative is trying to attract, is probably not up to date. But despite that, we can work together on good solutions. We're standing, as I said before, on our alternative budget, which I'm actually very proud of, because we're doing some work for the future. The biggest criticism I have of the proposal that gets a majority here today concerns the future. I wish we could see what profile we're going to have, in what direction we're going, and that we could think about future generations, not just living in the present and doing good for us adults who live here in this country now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1094	One of the most important handles the red-green government has done is to change the property tax, from being a tax for pensioners with paid-down houses and a few dollars in the bank to being a tax on real wealth. With the Swedish government paying 500,000 less taxes on wealth, and almost one million people have been taxed compared to when Left ruled the country. We've funded that. We've made sure to close the dirt hole in the property tax and that different assets are valued according to real value. The left proposes in its alternative state budget, which the representative has frequently pointed out that she is very proud of, to reintroduce the stock quota. Reintroducing the stock discount is an extremely targeted measure to reduce taxes on wealth for our wealthiest. Is the representative Tenden equally proud of this? And can she explain why this is a priority measure for the Left? And can the representative Tenden give an answer that she herself believes in how targeted tax relief to the richest people in the country benefits ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1103	I think it is quite right to reinstate that stock discount. It was completely wrong for the government of Stoltenberg to remove it. The reason for this is simply business considerations. We also want to reduce the taxes on wealth, as the representative probably knows. It is also to strengthen Norwegian business. We're going to invest, we're going to be safe, and we're going to bet on those who want to own Norwegian businesses. That's why we don't want to remove the stock discount, which I was challenged on here. That's why we want to remove the property tax in the long term. That's why we've put in a lot of good tax incentives for future unborn businesses. I was very disappointed with the article from SV here today. There was not one word about value creation! So what SV thinks we're going to live on in the future, I'm very uncertain about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1108	I'm a little surprised that the Left's fiscal spokespersons are not any clearer when it comes to prioritizing between the Economic Policy of the Progress Party versus the Economic Policy of the Government. It must lead to a large spread in the left-hand layer when it is so unclear. One will then attract people with very different attitudes to economic policy, but it will be the challenge of the Left. My question is related to halving the deduction of the trade union quota. That means 520 million. kr in increased tax. Historically, the Left has been concerned with a balance between business and labour, a balance between the interests of the producer and the trading position, between the employee and the owner. After Sponheim became a tone-inspiring force, it became a policy that gave less attention to professional organisation. Is it not a task for the Left to strengthen the trade movement especially in those parts of the economy and the labour market where this imbalance is great, in the disfavor of the producer and employee?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1115	Thank you for that question. I had so far expected it. That's how we go back to the support we had under the Bondevik II government. We mean that's where it should stay and be. This is a cross-subsidisation between government and trade unions. You get something, and then you give something. And that's also the way that the representative Lundtigen should have been more concerned about, that there's an injustice in this. I would believe that Lundtigen is for entrepreneurs and self-employed, but there is something that is not entirely right when someone is going to get large subsidies, while others do not have the opportunity to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1120	There must be a manifest misunderstanding here, because entrepreneurs and seafaring entrepreneurs are also organised through their professional organisations in many cases. They have professional organisations to strengthen their position in business and employment and, in the same way as employees, they get part of the good that lies here. I am therefore surprised that not that knowledge is inside, and I am generally surprised that the Left does not want to stimulate the organisation of work and business, so that we get neat and conciliatory relationships between the parties. It has been the line of the Left in the past, but after the Left has re-oriented itself in a market economy direction, this way of reducing the force of trade movement has emerged, by removing the tax regimes that the Red-Green Government has now established.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1125	I can reassure the representative Lundtegen that the knowledge of this is inside the representative Tende. I can calm him down with that. But it is actually the fact that most in the public sector are members of trade unions. I'm absolutely sure that Lundteg admits, too, if he thinks about it. So once again, we're going back. Politics is a priority. We are not giving priority to this. We have a lot of other priorities, including: entrepreneurial activity, we prioritise research, and we have a green tax shift that makes us more environmentally friendly behaviour. That's the policy. We do not give priority to subsidising trade unions. We have different priorities, which I also explained in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1132	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1135	There is a relatively calm budget debate in the Norwegian Grand Duchy. This is not the case in parliaments elsewhere in Europe. I think it is important when we are discussing today the 2011 State Budget in Norway, that we actually look around and look at what is happening in a wide range of countries outside Europe, and at the same time look at how Norway appears in that context. We have come through the financial crisis in a good way. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We have a good growth in the economy, and growth will rise in 2011. We should be proud of what we have done. It is also important that we tell ourselves that we have made the right choices in difficult cross paths. What people abroad notice is the Norwegian model of how we organise economic policy. They both wonder and ask how we get this done. Our budget debate today is taking place in a dramatic international environment. We also see some long challenges for the Norwegian economy — the increase in the number of older people coming — but at the same time Norway has more opportunities than many other countries. It is therefore important that we be able to fulfil the generational contract, and therefore it is important that we be able to strengthen the production base of the mainland economy in Norway in the years to come. We see that the financial crisis, as I said, has led to significant problems in many countries. Ireland is now discussing how to get out of the economic crisis. An economic stabilisation programme for Ireland is now under way. In addition to the International Monetary Fund and the euro area countries, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Sweden have indicated their willingness to provide debt finance. Norway shall contribute through the funds we make available to the International Monetary Fund. In addition, if we receive a direct request from Ireland for Norwegian assistance, we will of course assess it in a good and conscientious manner. We should be glad that Norway is in a completely different situation than the many countries around us are in. These relate to unemployment, government finances, distribution of income and foreign economy. There are many who would have liked to have changed with Norway. As I said, we're going to be proud of the results we've achieved. The ability to cooperate and make common promises when required is a good Norwegian position. And so as politicians, we'll always be concerned that things can get better, and that there are things that should change. Maybe in many cases we're so concerned about it, that we actually forget what's going well in this country, and that most of us are doing well. The constructive social critique is an important driving force in politics; black paint is really something that brings little good with it. As politicians, of course, we have a task in pointing out what is not working, but we also have an important task in pointing out what is going well and what works. Finding good solutions for the future is about seeing what's not good enough now, but it's just as much about seeing what we've done, and developing what we've done. Over the last ten years, Norway has repeatedly been identified as the world’s best country to live in. It's not just income that counts in that condition. One measures life, level of education, outreach and gender equality, and Norway scores widely in all these areas. In addition, the model of society on which we are based to safeguard the individual’s safety as a result of the loss of income due to illness, disability and age is an important feature of this model. The key welfare services to which school and health care are universal and jointly funded. There are so many people in Norway who don’t think about it – who are there when we need it, and who are there when we need the high level of security. Access to welfare services shall not depend on the economy of the individual. Ensuring opportunities for good education and providing good health care for all are important measures to reduce inequalities. I'm busy protecting this model of society. In our 2011 budget, we give priority to work and well-being, precisely because it is so important to take care of the welfare state. I think it would be difficult to maintain and develop the welfare state over time if we were to cut as much in taxes as is now available from proposals from individual parties in the Stortinget. Tax haven means well-being over time, and there will be a lot of people in our country. As I said, many countries are now going through a difficult economic time. Norway has also been through it in the past, and we have been through times when we have had weak government finances and high unemployment, and we have been through a banking crisis in Norway a good few years ago. There were some lessons that we drew from this. We learned how important it was to have a viable competitive sector for balanced economic development. The need that may be the most important for that sector is the demands on wage making, so that we can achieve a good development in competitiveness, and that wage growth does not come out of line with other countries. At the same time, we also need to make sure that we do not spend more of our common income on the State budget than we manage to keep a rise in interest rates in Norway away, because in turn, it will be particularly hard on competitive businesses. We learned that we have to save in good times to have something to use in bad times. Keeping order in the economy is the best protection against shocks that crises in the world economy can impose on a country. I think there are many around now who say to themselves that we should have kept better order at a time when many arrows pointed upward. Many countries are now experiencing this painfully. In this context, the economic framework we have put about economic policy with the State pension fund and the rule of action is very important. And there's a significant difference that goes across this hall, where there's one party that will scrape the rule of action. All the others agree on its importance for economic development in the future. I would assume that if there were government negotiations between the Advance Party and the Right, it would be one of the most difficult points one would have to deal with. Of course, how difficult it will be will also depend on the size of the lots in relation to each other. Looking ahead, Norway is facing major challenges. One is the ageing of the population. But at the same time it's a happy news, because we get the joy of living longer than previous generations. It is related to both the development of wealth and well-being, the development of the economy and other important things in Norwegian society. The main answer to this challenge is that people have jobs. More people have to have jobs, and more people have to work longer. The reform of pensions is important in that context, and I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy has stood behind it. It's work that carries well-being on its back. Focusing on work and welfare is the most important thing we can do, and it is also the most important thing in this budget. So it may seem a little boring to some that we are doing it – it's not like they're spreading the spending proposals – but we're not keeping track of this, and it's also bad with the other. Keeping an order in the economy, making sure people have jobs and creating security for well-being is the most important thing we can do. It is that what we have created through this strong community, in interaction with the Norwegian community, is the backbone of the Norwegian welfare model. The strong communities are the foundations on which people are to build their lives, that's where they are to find security, and that's where we can also create greater freedom for the individual. The 2011 budget is about that. The future budgets will also deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1171	There are many things that could be taken into account in a reply after the Minister of Finance's contributions to the financial debate. But one thing I want to draw out, and that's something that occupies a lot of people, and that we get a lot of enquiries about in these budget days. This concerns the curtailment of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. For several years I have really been wondering why there has been a policy at all on this matter. Why should it be that the individual pensioner is not allowed to retain his earned right, as the pension is, regardless of whether you are married, living together or alone? This takes a lot of pensioners, who think it's very unfair. I wonder if this is something the Minister of Finance – even if he does not come up with solutions in this State budget – can say that he actually wants to look at and do something about it, so that people can retain the right they have paid for themselves, and that is a vested right you shouldn't be curtailed just because you're actually married or cohabiting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1178	This is a repetition of the political debate. I see that there are some challenges to this in today's pension system. In the pension scheme that enters into force on 1 January next year, pensions are individualised and that is good. So that's one of the answers. The second – which has also been in the process of changing lines earlier today – is that through the adaptation of the pensioner tax that we are now making to the Pension Reform, we are actually correcting an important bias. This means that each person is entitled to his individual tax deduction, regardless of his or her spouse's status or civil status. So we're doing something -- and actually we're already doing it in the 2011 budget, on the tax side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1185	The State budget is based on the cash principle. This means that all expenditure is assumed to have the same effect on the economy. Everyone knows that's not right. One krone used in Norway will have a different effect than one krone used in the rest of the world. In other words, the consequences for Norwegian interest rates, exchange rates and inflation will be quite different regardless of whether the money is spent domestically or abroad. This does not take the state budget into account. It is also obvious that the way in which the money is used will have a different impact on the Norwegian economy. Money spent on current consumption expenditure will have a different impact than money spent on infrastructure investments. Overall, the current budgetary system gives few indications as to whether the fiscal policy pursued is sustainable over time. Does the Minister for Finance see weaknesses in today's budgetary system? Will he work for changes so that the one-sided focus on how much money is spent in the economy is replaced by a system where you look more closely at how the money is spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1194	I fully agree with the latter. It is an important job in all budgetary work to look at how the money is spent, that a person gets the most way, rail and well-being for the crowns that a person spends in the state budget. That's a good way to housekeepers with the economy. Then I believe that the cash principle is a good principle, because it is important that the Storting should at all times have an overview of the government's expenses and revenues. We can draw up a number of examples from other countries, where one through more creative budgeting has tried to spend money — at least temporarily — outside the state budget. The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom, for example, has abolished the OPS system on the grounds that they had lost an overview of the actual expenditure of the State budget. But there's room for improvement. An improvement is that you have the opportunity to see investments over a longer period of time, for example: by placing important transport investments on own budget lines. We're going to operate on these things, but the cash principle is a very good principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1201	The Minister of Finance placed great emphasis on the accountability and importance of holding back the use of money in his speech, and at that point the Minister of Finance and the Right are in line. A finance minister in Norway who talks about showing caution about money use can still spend 60 billion dollars. kr more to the next year than the one used this year, so that it is relatively liberal on the expenditure side. My question to the Minister of Finance relates to the fact that the appropriations for research are cut. I would think that a finance minister who is committed to laying the foundation for future generations, the basis for future well-being, was also concerned that we should spend more money on seeds, so that we have something to harvest in the future. So my question is simply: how can the Minister of Finance defend the fact that, with such a liberal framework until next year, the research budget is actually cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1210	The first part of the line was very interesting. We strongly agree on how we should align the use of financial resources, or the state budget, with the rules of action. That's good. But, as I pointed out in my post, there probably right will have considerably greater problems with a possible government partner. I like the question of the 60 billion, because it gives a misleading picture of what is actually available in the budget. In the 60 billion, there is a change in the income system of the municipalities, the defence budget system, the automatic growth of expenditure in population and price growth. The real increase in the expenditure of the State budget is corrected approximately. 19 B.C.E. kr. In the context of the 19 billion, we have prioritised a strong growth in the income of municipalities, a follow-up to the national transport plan, a significant increase in investment in education, and we are continuing the research budget at a high level.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1217	There are different ways to calculate the deal space. But there's no doubt that it's going to be 60 billion. The Minister of Finance also confirms with his estimation that there is a considerable room for action, but priorities have been different. The Research Association states that it is the research that draws the blacks to the next year. We've previously heard from the same government that you're going to have a break in higher education, and you're going to look very well in the budget to claim that the knowledge is the winner of the government's draft budget. I have had a lot of trouble seeing it, and I find it hard to see that the Minister of Finance has in some way documented it. So my question again relates to how the government intends to create a sustainable growth in the Norwegian economy, when you can't use the gold years we're now in, to invest for the future, and where you also have growth-removing tax incentives, which make it difficult for those who are going to create values.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1226	It's true that the nominal cost growth is 60 billion. kr. But adjusted for the things I mentioned, the real cost growth is 2.3 pst., corresponding to about 19 billion. kr, and there the government has prioritised, as I said in response to the previous line. So one could certainly have wanted more to research, as one might have wanted more in many other areas, but the government keeps up the research budget at a very high level, and that's an important signal. In addition, this is a budget for keeping a low level of interest rates in Norway. It is a budget to have a low cost growth in Norway in the years to come. In fact, I believe that there may be a better contribution to competitiveness and jobs in industry than many of the tax proposals proposed by the Right and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1235	I think it was liberating to hear a finance minister who not only goes into the individual figures budget and deviations on one and the other, but who looked a little ahead. Much of what the Minister of Finance says is that we have to make sure that we have a solid pillar for the welfare society in the future. In recent days, there has been a significant focus on disability pensions, and I want to hear how the Minister of Finance looks at the future disability pension in relation to having a sustainable welfare society. What will the government focus on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1240	Now, in the final phase, the government is formulating what's going to be a false reform, so I can't go into the details. But I would like to point out four points: firstly, it is important that disability pensions are also adapted to the Pension Reform. There was a relationship that we didn't have a lot to do with the Pension Commission, but we were very aware that there's a very close relationship between disability pension and ordinary retirement. That's point one. Point two: It needs to be easier to combine work and social security. It's an important part of this. Three: It is important to prevent people from becoming disabled and to reduce the number of people entering the disability scheme. The fourth point, which is going to be there as a kind of superstructure, is that no matter how we construct public welfare systems, we also have to bear in mind that, under similar conditions, it's always going to pay off to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1251	As I said in my post, the government's budget is good enough, but my concern, or the issue of the Left, is that it doesn't testify to any direction, and the Left believes that it would have been possible for the government with the 2004 level of tax to use the occasion, for example. a strong transformation of the system in a greener and more business-friendly direction. The alternative budget of the left shows that it is possible within a province-neutral framework. So to the question: this year, like last year, the government makes some small adjustments that at best confuse and at worst work against its purpose. Last year it was the biodiesel tax that created a lot of bridesmaids for the government. The argument was that the polluter had to pay, but this led to two exciting companies going bankrupt. This year it's e-mums, which seem as little thoughtful, and that's not figured out. Does the Minister of Finance already regret the e-VAT proposal, and how likely does he believe it is to be something before the EU reaches its conclusion in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1259	I think there's a lot of potential in greener taxation in the years to come, and that's also some of the reason why we're now saying that we're going to go over, among other things. the fuel taxes and the car charges to see what opportunities we have in that context. When VAT was introduced at the end of the 1960s, no one had heard about online commerce. But what we are seeing now is that online commerce is becoming more and more widespread, and it is a challenge that not only Norway, but many other countries are facing – in other words, a large part of the taxable turnover takes place in channels other than in the store in the usual way. This is something that Norway needs to take into account, and that is something that other countries in Europe need to take into account. I have good faith that it is possible to find good systems for it both in Norway and elsewhere in Europe. Then I also register a happy news in the newspaper today, at least from the Ministry of Finance, that Cappelen Damm has now agreed to launch the e-book in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1268	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1271	A few weeks ago, I had the pleasure of being present when UNDP – the United Nations Development Programme – presented its Human Development Report. In that report, Norway was again named the world’s best country to live in. High life expectancy, high levels of equality and small differences in income, health and education are among the factors that put us on the top. The fact that Norway is cutting high in such surveys is no longer a surprise, but it is not a matter of course. Norway has received very good help from nature with rich natural resources. However, on the list of winners in the nature lottery, there are a lot of examples of countries where the population has not been given its share of good and development. This report also points out that growth itself does not automatically lead to better living conditions for the population. It depends on the policy that each country is pursuing, whether or not to have smaller differences. Norway has a highly educated population. We have a high average life expectancy, a high level of equality, high participation in employment and generally good living conditions to refer to. We also have a strong business life with adaptability, efficiency and profitability that contributes to solid value creation. This value creation is the prerequisite for our well-being society. Together, we finance good welfare systems and a strong social security network. This context can be summed up in two simple, but very important words: sheep and parts. So it is not the hydropower or the oil or the fish that have led Norway to the top of the UN ranking. That is how we have managed both the natural resources and the human resources, which have placed us there, because the majority of the population has, over long periods, had social and economic equality as the ideal – where Community solutions have been the instrument – and because equal opportunities for all have been an objective. The 2005 and 2009 elections also show that the majority in Norway continue to join this way of thinking. During the five years of the Workers' Party has been part of the red-green government cooperation, we have always had the focus on what our voters have thought is more important than tax relief and privatisation, namely work and well-being. The status today is that we have low leave, and we have improved the Norwegian welfare society in several areas. At the same time, we're not going to rest on our laurels and settle down on what we've achieved. The budget for the following year shall contribute to securing Norwegian jobs through a responsible economic policy. Let me add here that I think it is sad that the country's second largest party still does not take this great responsibility over itself. What is really the economic policy of the Progress Party is still unclear after the rounds we have had here in the Chamber – today, and last year. Last year, it was clear that the ‘wow effect’ was being put on an oil money use under the government. But until next year it will be put out, and the fiscal spokesman in the Progress Party has not been able to answer what the tax promises of the Progress Party will cost in the coming years. The government budget also focuses attention on future jobs, including: through the North Mineral Mapping Programme, which may contribute to the re-introduction of an industry with a high potential both locally and globally. The red-green parties give priority to spending money on those who need it the most: on children's protection, on drug addicts, on those who need health care, on young people who want to complete secondary education, and not least on the elderly who are waiting in hospital. More and more older people will need care services in the coming years. It takes the Labour Party and the government seriously. Several of the country's rapporteurs have said that they need more money to expand the care service and to hire people to care for the elderly. That's why we're adding extra government money to the table, through both the ordinary budget, which we're dealing with today, and the older billion that's announced in addition. We increase transfers to municipalities, and we increase the grant to nursing homes and nursing homes. It gives municipalities a greater economic space to provide the elderly with good and dignified care. So, of course, care for the elderly is about more than buildings and money. It's about taking care of people in their last year of life. Then we need skilled professionals and dedicated volunteers to give older people a safe and meaningful everyday life. In order to strengthen good cooperation with voluntary forces in the care of the elderly, the red-green policymakers have spent extra money on it through the budgetary procedure this autumn. Special bets are on dementes and their relatives. These are the main features of government policy and budget for next year. What is the alternative to the red-green policy? It's not the perfect society without faults and shortcomings; it's a dark blue alternative. I have not avoided noticing that the Right Leader has recently tried to speak out his own party by describing it as a welfare party that is also concerned that there should be small differences in society. The right-wing leader, when challenged, has also been concerned with stressing that the Norwegian model based on tax-funded well-being, Community solutions and close tripartite cooperation will remain independent of the colour of the government. But it's in stark contrast to what the Right actually does. The right's alternative budget is the very best evidence of what are the Right's real priorities. It's all but well-being and minor differences, but it's about a maximum of traditional Right Policy: 10 billion. kr in tax cuts and an infallible belief in private solutions. It is still the case that tax cuts and privatisation are the Right answer, no matter what the question may be. Over five years with a red-green government, we've heard the Right People complain about the shortcomings in society, and that there's not enough money to do anything about it. But in the Right's Alternative Budget, there's no trace of this commitment. So it's tax cuts that are the overriding priority. It will, of course, provide welfare protection. If implemented, the Right Cut will affect our future well-being. I record that none of the right-hand speakers in this room today wanted to answer where the cuts will come in year two. Because it is not the case that all the tax commitments to the Right and the Advance Party have not been fulfilled through the budget of the year. This year, bureaucrats are being sacked, Norwegian agriculture is being laid down, and the aid budget is being heavily cut. When you've told the bureaucrats and cut down on agriculture, you can't do that for another year. The core of the Norwegian welfare society: municipal economy, school, health and care. Right hand tax cuts also mean that we lose one of our most important tools to redistribute from those who have the most, to those who have the least, and thus our ability to reduce social differences. The right hand hand hand gives only a few sharp hundred patches of light to those with the very lowest incomes. They average over 60,000 dollars in tax bills to those who make over 3 million. kr. It is interesting to compare the alternative budgets of the Right and the Advance Party. In a central area such as oil money use, it is still not possible to agree, but I note that the Right's fiscal spokesman guarantees that we will deal with the rule of action in the future. There is also a difference in the dosage between the two batches. But in terms of direction and priority, there's a big coincidence. This means that it is completely wrong when the Right Leader tries to present it as if the difference between the Right and the Workers' Party is today's welfare policy with a small dash of public sector renewal. The only possible way to power is through the Progress Party and a dark blue project. There are many unknown factors in such cooperation, but tax relief, privatisation and greater social differences are what goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1308	It has some entertainment to listen to the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party. I notice that there's a lot of questions she's asking about the Advance Party's policy. Then I can reproduce to the extent that it is a part I also wonder about the Workers' Party. Let me turn some of her questions around. She was very concerned that the Progress Party could not explain what our budgets cost. Yes, we can. But maybe Helga Pedersen can tell me what the Workers' Party's promises will cost in the coming years, since she expects answers to this from the Advancement Party. And similarly, she was concerned that we were going to account not only for our alternative budget for next year, but also for the consequences the year after and the year after there again. It's called long-term budgeting. The Progress Party has proposed this many times, but the Labour Party has voted against it. If it is, however, that Helga Pedersen has been concerned about it, can she tell us at this point what we can expect from the government budget in 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1315	It is certainly the case that all the ambitions of the Workers' Party in both work and welfare are to be taken within a financially responsible framework. We have made that very clear, both in our party programme and in the Soria Moria declaration. I can assure you that our priorities in terms of work and well-being will remain constant in the financial years after 2011. We are very clear that we give priority to the most important tasks first — health, care, school — in front of tax cuts. On the other hand, it is unclear what the Progress Party and Siv Jensen will prioritize if they come to the point that they have to do so, because now we have heard Right here say in the Chamber that if the Right Party and the Advance Party cooperate, it will not be relevant to break the rule of action. Then I ask Siv Jensen: Is it tax cuts or is the welfare that is most important to her party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1322	The President will be pleased if the speech goes through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1325	Now I'm actually asking the questions, and I expect Helga Pedersen to answer them. I perceive that this was a very small substantive answer to questions she expects the opposition parties to answer, despite the fact that we are not in government. I'm going to stand by every comma in the Progress Party program, and I can promise that we're going to do everything we can to implement everything. But Helga Pedersen must be as clear even as what she expects of her opponents. So another question. I heard the Prime Minister say in the Question Time that he was too private. I visited the Ringvoll Clinic yesterday. They have patients whom they are not allowed to treat, who have a year waiting time at a public hospital because the state refuses them to be treated at a private clinic – despite having free capacity and being able to carry out surgery next week at half the price of what the regional health company can. Is it to be too private, or is it to be for a public monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1334	In my reply to the representative Jensen, I was very clear that the Workers' Party will give priority to work and well-being over tax cuts. I record that the party leader of the Progress Party will not answer the same question. Then I conclude by saying that it is tax law that is the most important thing, both because it is the overriding priority of the alternative budget of the Progress Party, and also because that was what was prioritised when the Progress Party was the Bondevik II government's support party in the period 2001-2005. There were no roads or older people who won the budget battle then, there were tax squares that did. Yes, our government uses private as a supplement when appropriate, but we do not want a large-scale privatisation of the welfare service and to turn it into a market, as the Progress Party calls for. Siv Jensen has even said that she wants market thinking at all levels of society. That's where we want a different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1341	Let me then challenge Helga Pedersen in this other direction. With a reciprocating voice you say that the previous government was, and that the Right is, occupied with privatizing more. I take it over me. We think diversity is good. We believe that freedom of choice is a good thing. We believe that all good forces must be used to solve the good and important welfare tasks in the future. One of the examples of government allergy to private people is the way they handle tendering processes, the way they restrict the purchase from private people, without having a holistic view. That now results in Oslo Hospital being closed down. Oslo Hospital has a thorough, in-depth offer to violent psychiatric patients in Norway, a type of offer that the government's government's own public selection, which looked at the killing of women, felt had to be expanded. But the consequence of the welfare policy of the Workers' Party is that it is now being dismantled. What does Helga Pedersen really think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1350	There's a lot we can say about private solutions. We will use private solutions when appropriate, and we will use private supplements in the Norwegian health care system, in kindergarten development and in many other areas. When the Right draws out private solutions as the big answer to all the challenges we still have in the Norwegian welfare community, I have two comments on that. One is that if you're going to do what the Right says in its rhetoric and in its programs, you take in private at the expense of the public, or you have to take in private actors and actually be willing to pay what it costs to increase the budgets to pay for the private offer. I see very little of that in the Right Alternative Budget. Then we are concerned that we should provide predictable framework conditions for both the commercial and the ideal players, but we cannot change the rules while the game is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1360	The Labour Party parliamentary leader therefore considers it appropriate to make the best offer to violent psychiatric patients in Norway, run by a voluntary organisation. That's what was really the answer to my question, and I think that's quite outrageous. What has happened in these areas is that the Workers' Party has abdicated from governing. There has been a downturn in bureaucracy and no overview of the impact of the decisions that are now being taken in health businesses, for example. on the diversity and breadth of the remaining offers. I think that is a political responsibility. I believe it is a political responsibility to have good framework conditions for both private and volunteers who can provide a wide range of services, because I believe that patients and the Norwegian community get a better welfare offer with it. It is important that women do not live in fear of being killed by a man who is a psychiatric patient and violent. We're going to have this kind of help in the Norwegian community, but the Labour Party obviously believes that it's okay that the bureaucracy and health businesses are at present cutting it off. That's what this is about. I think that Helga Pedersen now has to register in reality, and the reality is that it is this type of offer, this width, that disappears in the allergy that the Workers' Party has against private offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1369	I think it is quite alarming that the leader of the Norwegian Right, who has always had more market thinking, calls for more political governance from the government. Yes, our government wants non-profit actors to be an important part of welfare production in Norway. But when we open up to actors from outside what we can call the welfare market in this context, there must be some rules of play so that we can measure the different actors against each other. When I play Ludo with my family, we agree on the rules before we start the game. So maybe we'll change the game rules before the next round, but then we'll do it before we start the next round. It'll be sour mines if we change the rules of the game along the way. The non-profit sector has been a major topic here in the hall in the fall. There's something the government is looking at and going through. Then we might get back to it, because the non-profit sector is an important part of what we do in Norway in terms of welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1381	When the representative Helga Pedersen is shocked that even the Right Leader is asking for increased public governance, it may well be that the representative Solberg has a point. The treatment of ideal institutions here in Norway as the Government currently stands is nothing less than a scandal. Every week, new ideal offers are being closed down or curtailed. And it's not about institutions that you've opened up some kind of game for, where the government is a counterpart. It is about those institutions that have largely built this welfare society. The representative Pedersen knows that I've used most of my political life to fight for good public welfare. But part of the diversity of the Norwegian welfare community is ideal institutions. Oslo Hospital, which was the starting point of Solberg's question, is no government in its goodwill has opened up to in a game. They were there before all of us – in 1290! And now it's going to be put down, to the detriment of psychiatric patients with the heaviest suffering. I do not understand that the Norwegian Labour Party can stand for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1388	When we distribute offers and contracts, be it to volunteers or to others, we have to have some way to measure that the offer is good enough. I've had meetings with the Salvation Army and the Church's City Mission here in Oslo, which has provided services to the Right and Advance Party-led Oslo Municipality, and they say: Yes, we want to be measured on quality, we like to compete with each other, but what we don't tolerate is to be competitive by commercial actors who pressure us on employees' wages and jobs. So if it's the case that the right-hand side parties, that is, the Right and the Advance Party, are very concerned about this, they can start in their own municipality. The government has taken action, in the area of child protection, we have introduced new rules, with a separate round of ideal actors and then a round for the others. And now, as I said, we're looking at the possibilities to ensure better predictability of the ideals in other areas. But this is technically very complicated, so we're going to take the time we have to spend on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1393	First of all, I have to say that knowledge needs to be updated a little bit, because all the ideals now have agreements in Oslo, there are only three who have left to negotiate their agreements, so one has to find some new arguments. But since the big questions are not going so well, I thought I would ask a very simple, concrete and little one. I want to quote the newspaper Nordlys. It said in an article: ‘The objective of equivalent health services must also apply to our teeth. That is why the Workers' Party will now lift the dental health. [[...]] Therefore, we want the public to take greater responsibility in the dental field." And then it's written: "While it is free for everyone under 18 to go to a dentist today, we will raise the limit to 20 years." This is signed by Helga Pedersen, but it was written in the 2009 election campaign. Stoltenberg has a mantra that you vote for what you are for, or against what you are against – while the government underregulates and cuts this support. So my question is that there are two alternatives here, either you've tricked the voters, or you're going to vote against what you're in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1412	In the dental field, too, we have to do what we have done in other areas, to build stones on stones, and in the dental field, over the last few years, we've doubled our efforts towards drug users and those who have the worst incomes, so that more people can take good care of their teeth. Then we're going to build it up gradually, but in the 2011 budget, our main priorities have been the elderly and the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1420	We have just received a recipe from the Labour Party parliamentary leader for how to respond when you are challenged by what you want and what it costs. That's why it can be just as natural for me to make her words mine by saying that the Progress Party will implement its policy within a financially responsible framework, and I can assure you that our priorities are firm. We've witnessed so far in this financial debate, what should I call it, a red-green verbal orgy in attack on the opposition. It's a technique you choose to use when the voters escape your own games, and no longer have confidence and confidence in the sitting government. I understand that it's unpleasant, but then you might have to be more concerned about changing your own behavior and your own appearance and your own policy rather than pointing all the shot at the opposition, which unfortunately has no influence on the policy currently being pursued. And then it's also natural for me to ask some questions: Could it be that the voters actually agree with the Progress Party, since they choose to say in polls at least that it's us they want to vote on? Could it be that they have perceived what we want, and by no means need the help of the Prime Minister or other red-green politicians to get out of the mess, not to misunderstand? Could it be that they have just had enough of red-green policy and want it different? Maybe that's what the government's parties ought to be reflecting a little bit more in their eagerness to attack the opposition. I know every single comma in the Progress Party program – I don't just admit it, I'm actually very proud of it. And I'm really very happy that the Workers' Party is more concerned about talking about the Advance Party's policy than about its own. It only makes it possible for us on even more surfaces and on even more arenas to see even more of the very excellent policy of the Advance Party. The problem with the Workers' Party is that they don't get the focus away from themselves, because that focus is there every day through the fact that voters every day know the consequences of the red-green policy. Then I notice that there has been a fall in the government apparatus and in the red-green parts. You've been misjudged, and you think that's $88 billion. kr is a nice number to scare the voters with. Now it is a little difficult for me to address or debate these figures on the Workers' Party's own premises, because I haven't seen either the assumptions for the calculations or the conclusions – because they're secret. If they're not secret, I'm glad to have that note delivered afterwards. I hope the Prime Minister can come and give it to me – it would have been very nice. But let me put the claimed 88 billion. kr from the perspective of some of the promises, or lack of fulfillment of promises, coming from the red-green ones. For example, lightning trains – you say to build lightning trains. The cost framework for building it is a place between 300 and 500 billion. kr. But it's obviously responsible policy. Or, by failing to facilitate the further development of the Heidrun field, Norway loses 50 billion. kr. But I guess that's because it's the red-green ones that define it, small money. Or: We have analyses that conclude that we have an annual loss in a place between 80 and 100 billion. kr due to lack of efficiency due to poor infrastructure in our society. That's the kind of number that we'd rather not relate to. But 88 billion. kr, in order to believe the figure that the Workers' Party has calculated, which will make the economy more efficient, no, it is irresponsible. It's a debate of totally unprofessional premises, and I don't think I'm able to spend much more time on it, except to state that the Progress Party has ambitions to implement its policy. That is why we are making choices, and I am pleased that more and more voters are ending up on that policy. That means that we can have a change, we can get a renewal, and we can put the most important things in society first. I am very proud to present – together with the financial fraction of the Progress Party and the big group – an alternative state budget that puts the oldest first. Older people are always on the agenda in debate and election fighting, but they always lose their way in red-green budgets. The Progress Party will no longer be able to accept it in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1438	I record that the Progress Party does not overwhelm the fact that questions are asked about their policies. For the calculations of the 88 billion. kr, it is publicly available. Siv Jensen can find this on the Ministry of Finance's website. Norway is just named the world’s best country to live in. I am sure that Siv Jensen agrees with me that there is still a potential for improvement – at least it sounds like that – but in Norway it is still the case that most people are doing well, because we have wanted it so politically. We have developed the country, built on the joint financing of the well-being. We have public welfare services that are accessible to everyone, and not least we have strong tripartite cooperation in the workplace that guarantees people strong employee rights, and that has also given us a responsible professional movement that is involved and takes action when necessary. What kind of society is the Progress Party sees for itself with $88 billion. Do tax cuts require market thinking at all levels and constant attacks on an organised working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1447	I don't think Helga Pedersen heard what I said. Rather, I said on the contrary that I was very pleased that we were able to talk on more occasions about the policy of the Progress Party, also now: Thank you for the line! Yes, I agree: Norway is in many ways a very good country to live in. What politics is about is, of course, making society even better. Then it's about us disagreeing on what means we want to use. The Progress Party agrees with the Workers' Party that many of our well-being goods should be funded by the Community through the Tax Code. Where we separate layers, the Workers' Party only wants the tasks to be carried out, owned and created by public monopolies. We want to get private too. I'm recording that Helga Pedersen in the line-up instead said that you have to let go of private as a supplement when it suits the Workers' Party. But it's not like they're ready for the Workers' Party when it suits the Workers' Party. It is demanding to run private enterprises. They must also have stable and predictable framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1457	I register that Siv Jensen would like to have the Norwegian welfare community, but she does not want to pay for it. Then I would like to ask: Where does Siv Jensen get inspiration for his political thinking? Can the representative Jensen mention one country where welfare systems have been privatised and implemented tax cuts in the order of magnitude proposed by the Progress Party and where the population is better off than in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1462	I pick up my inspiration from the Norwegian people, in conversations with people, individuals, businesses and organisations almost every day. That's where I get my inspiration. I pick up my inspiration at the Ringvoll Clinic in Hobøl Municipality in Eastfold, which despite all odds is running privately, which wants to help sick people to get well, but who feel that the only way they can treat patients is either by bringing a private health insurance or a fat wallet. There is a class distinction created by the Workers' Party under the Workers' Party, and a class distinction I disagree with. I believe that everyone, regardless of their income, should have the same right to be treated at Ringvoll Clinic as they do at Aker Hospital, which we soon no longer have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1467	I truly believe that the representative Jensen also draws inspiration from some of his friends on the best west side. The representative Jensen promises to do everything, she says, and is proud. 13 B.C.E. kr shall go to some of the richest of the country. The billionaires in Norway shall become zero-tax payers. It's the Progress Party proud of. On the other hand, we see what kind of class policy this party actually stands for: in next year's budget, if the Progress Party is serious, you take 700 million. kr from single caregivers, SEK 2.5 billion. kr from sick workers and 1 billion. kr from the disability allowance. It's class policy, as we see it. That's actually choosing the page. I believe that the Progress Party should also talk about the downside of its budgetary options, not just what they think is upside down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1474	The party of progress doesn't cut a single crown in the underwear. Rather, what we believe on the contrary is that many of our instruments, if our policies had been implemented, would have led to fewer people having to be disabled and more likely to get to work. The last time I checked, there were very many people with a disability who wanted to get to work, but who under a very rigid system of Swedish government do not come to work. The Progress Party will do something about that. So to the property tax. The progress party has often gone to the elections to remove it, and we're going to continue to do that. Why? Point one because it is a double taxation. Point two because by removing the wealth tax, we create more jobs, and we will need that, also in future Norway. I would very much like those who create values in Norway to create more, so that we can get more employer income, more VAT and other taxes and taxes into the treasury as a result of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1481	It is interesting to hear the representative Jensen talk about stable framework conditions for industries when they cut in their budgets 6.4 billion. kr directly to one of the country's most important industries. The second is that the representative Jensen is talking about the elderly. The representative, Jensen, is calling for a governmentisation of the care of the elderly, to create a large state bureaucracy in which individuals are to be able to assess their needs for care by some state bureaucrat instead of being able to assess their needs for care in the local environment. The national survey shows that it is in the smallest municipalities that people are most satisfied. Where it's close, it feels safe. The Social and Health Directorate produced a report that said that where it was safe, it was close – in the smallest municipalities. How should the individual be better seen when introducing a large state bureaucracy to assess the need for care, rather than local people creating a well-adapted offer for each demente?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1490	It is, at least, very stable when, year after year, the Progress Party is responsible for the same agricultural policy, and we accept it, whether or not the Battle of Vedum likes it. So to the care of the elderly, we haven't talked about publicising the care of the elderly. What we've been talking about is publicising the funding of it. It is not the case that there should be a bureaucrat in some department to assess who is in need of care for the elderly or not. The most natural thing is that your doctor makes that kind of assessment. It is your doctor who must be the one who assesses your medical condition, and whether the need for further care occurs in your life. At the moment of the need, we believe that there should be an automatic system that ensures that you get the help you need – regardless of whether you live in a rich or poor municipality. So the only way to do this is to let the money follow the individual elderly, as needed, instead of doing it like today, through framework transfers where you don't have any prerequisite or guarantee to know if you're getting space when you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1497	The Christian People's Party is thinking about the budget debate last year with joy. For the first time in history, the Progress Party for the Government voted in favour of its proposal on alcohol charges. Then it is exciting to see that the Progress Party has now returned to my habit. It might be interesting to hear Siv Jensen's thoughts about what one did last year. Was it an intrusion of wisdom, or was it an intrusion from the Progress Party's side? Along the way, I will also give a quote from Gunnar Stavrum from the Web newspaper. This is the case for the Progress Party's budget this year. He says: ‘The budget of the Party is as realistic as adopting nice weather and abolishing the law on gravity. [[...]] While other parties make budget proposals that can be launched, the Frp budget is at best an illustration. [[...]] What is Siv Jensen's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1509	At least there are a lot of people who want to get involved – let's say – in the truth of what the Progress Party's policy will lead to. I'm recording that more and more people are discussing it. That means that at least in some camps you start to become more and more concerned that we actually get the opportunity to get into the government position and implement our policies. Unlike our political opponents and others in the elite of society, I think there are a lot of people in this society who are very happy that the probability is getting closer and closer so that we can implement our policies. I understand that there are many in this Chamber who want to have a monopoly on the power of definition of what is a responsible economic policy. But I do not understand why a responsible economic policy goes through an action rule. It should actually go through the strength and balance of public spending and our ability to generate revenue for society. It is the balance that determines whether an economy is healthy over time or whether it is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1514	I expect the representative Jensen to be here when I asked the question to Leirstein. Now I'm going to elaborate on it a little bit more: the Left and the Advance Party were united in principle when it came to the biodiesel tax. We agreed that a charging policy can be used here, use tax policies, use the tools to act and develop Norwegian business as we want. We agree that we should develop Norwegian business, we agree that market mechanisms must work in a society. What I don't understand is why it's not possible to get the Progress Party into a mindset where we create a system of environmental taxes – taxation that facilitates the growth of business that we see around Europe. In Germany, renewable energy is now a larger business than the car industry was in old Germany. So why is the Progress Party not involved in such a thinking where the tax and tax system is used to bring about a business life for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1519	Let me first say that I think it is very gratifying that Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left is concerned about highlighting how much the Advance Party and the Left actually agree. It can promise good for the next few years. So for environmental taxes: the Progress Party has often called for a very clear and clear designation of environmental taxes, so that the environmental taxes we have will benefit the environment. This is not the way it is in today's system, and we are more than willing to discuss it with the Left and with other parties for that matter – especially in an energy policy perspective. There is no doubt that Norway has the very best assumptions for, even in the years to come, becoming an even larger producer — hopefully also an exporter — of green, or renewable, energy. We have an untapped potential on water, and we have an untapped potential in a number of areas that are ready to start. I hope that's what the Progress Party and the Left can agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1526	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1530	Many people often ask us, why are there so little differences in the alternatives and the state budgets that are presented every single harvest of the Storting? Many people ask us if we can't move more money. Can't we make a bigger grip? My answer is then always that, first of all, there's a lot in the budget that's locked up because it's important, stable things around people's everyday lives. The second is that in Norwegian politics, there are steps over several years – not what you do one year – that are crucial to seeing what is different about parties and what you do for the future. The right alternative state budget shows our steps in a direction that will both ensure more sustainable well-being and, not least, ensure that we have sustainable growth, a growth that will allow for both the priority of well-being and welfare challenges and ensure that they are sustainable and that Norwegian business life goes well. The right-hand starting point is the vision we've put forward, that we're going to create a society with opportunities for everyone. It's about making sure that everyone has the opportunity to get a job, that everyone has the opportunity to use their talents, to fight the greatest class divisions that we have in our society, namely the difference between those who are in the world of work and those who are out of work. We believe that sustainable well-being is primarily financed and created by ensuring that Norwegian business is competitive and creates new jobs every year in the future. The Prime Minister started this year's New Year speech by asking the question and saying that he would have a big discussion about what we're going to live on after the oil age. I think it's a big and important thing. But every step to get to what we're going to live on after the oil age, we take every year when we deal with the budget, but also every time we deal with matters in the Storting, because that's the framework conditions around it. Our alternative budget is to make sure that we invest for the future, so that we can meet both 2020, 2030 and 2030 with a more competitive economy, with more profitable jobs, with more tax revenue, because we have chosen to create more, not to tax more. It is not like the Minister of Finance said that tax cuts are necessarily well-off. He himself has been involved in tax cuts that have not given welfare protection. In 1992, we agreed on a tax reform with tax cuts that provided better revenue in the future. We did the same thing in 2005. We've got more tax revenue afterwards, because the tax relief that was given at that time has actually given us both dynamic effects and contributed to more growth capacity in the economy. The same thing is going to happen when we remove the most anti-growth we have in the Norwegian economy today, which is the property tax, which means that many of the small and large businesses we have around the country have to take off their equity, yes, the whole fertiliser they have in order to grow on, to pay taxes every year. So that tax has doubled under the red-green government. But that's not just what we have to do. It is important to keep the macro-economy in place. That is why we have also said that the main framework for this budget we agree on how much money we spend. In the fight against us, for example. shall receive an increase in interest, an increase in the rate of interest, shall be adjusted to this budget. What is not adapted is the priorities within the budget. There is too little priority in research, development, knowledge and competence, in road construction and in what stimulates us to strengthen our businesses in the future. In a society that should not have too many differences, it is precisely to provide access to create economic growth and the basis for funding the welfare community that is important, but also that there are enough jobs. That is therefore a necessary prerequisite. But that's not the only assumption. The second premise is that we also invest in the individual person, that we create a school system that raises knowledge, that increases competence, that we create a working life that reinvests in the employees, and that makes that when people don't master to read and write well enough to hold on to the new job – while they mastered the old job, but it disappeared from the country – we give it to them filled in knowledge and competence. That is why we have always prioritised the measures that will enable people to gain skills in the future. What we do today helps us to be proud of our children in the future. I believe that the lack of investment for the future by the government contributes to the failure of future generations. There will be greater differences because the Norwegian society will not be able to maintain a policy that contributes to less differences in the future, unless we do something about competitiveness and investment in individual human competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1552	Despite the new rhetoric of the Right, the alternative state budgets continue to show that one of the main lines between the right and the left of Norwegian policies is through welfare policy. I am not going to claim that we do not have challenges in the Norwegian health system, but that we have a public health system that is accessible to everyone has contributed to small social differences in health compared to most other countries, that we can treat more and more diseases, and that more patients are receiving treatment. In its 2011 alternative budget, the Right proposes to increase the use of private actors in the health sector. It is justified that it will lead to shorter waiting times and be cost-effective. This was also thought to be true in Denmark. Therefore, the right-wing government increased its efforts on private operators. The number of private hospitals has increased from 43 to 221 and tax exemptions have been granted for private health insurance. The waiting time hasn't fallen, and it hasn't gotten any cheaper. When Denmark has not succeeded, what is the reason why the Right will do the same in Norway, other than for ideological reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1561	Because we've done it before – that's exactly what the previous government did, and we lowered the health cows by 50,000. This is the legacy of the Bondevik II government. We cut in the hospital queues. This government has set a record in hospital cows. So there are more people waiting in line now than before the health reform we carried out, where we were very motivated to bring down the health cows. So it's not that easy. You don't have to run to Denmark. You can only look at the story in Norway. What we mean to do is give people freedom of choice. If you are authorised for a treatment, you can bring the money and either go to the private person who can give it treatment, or to the public hospital. Most people are going to choose the public hospital. We believe that the health service should be publicly funded. In fact, we believe that it is a problem when people pledge their house to the chimney to avoid standing in a health queue for a year. They do so under the policy that Helga Pedersen believes makes less difference. The health area is an area of major differences under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1568	Firstly, I would like to remind you that it was the Stoltenberg I government that took the initiative for the health reform, and also that 90 000 more patients are treated every year now than under the Bondevik II government. In Norway, the idea of social and geographical cohesion is very strong. Right-wing eagerness to open a health market for private operators challenges both these two elements. Let's go back to Denmark. There the government, like the Bondevik II government, has granted tax exemptions for private health insurance that give entitlement to treatment in private hospitals. 60 pst. of Danes with income over half a million Danish kronor have such insurance, while only 12 pst. such insurance is provided by Danes with income below NOK 300000. Secondly, one of the main health and care challenges is access to qualified personnel in the coming years. The rural areas are already struggling and privatisation will lead to greater competition. How does Erna Solberg feel that privatisation should lead to better social and geographical cohesion when the picture is as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1577	Because we want to give freedom of choice in public-funded budgets, that means that there will be no need for the same private health insurance as it is actually under the red-green government. Health insurance has increased by 134 pst. in the last five years. It is this government that forces people into private health insurance, to pledge their house when they have serious diseases for which they are to be treated. We're not doing it, it's this government that's doing this. To the fundamental question of what this means, I'm going to ask a counter-question that Helga Pedersen might be able to use a three-minute term later in the debate. Eidskog municipality, under the then management of e.g. The working party decided to have an insurance guarantee for all its inhabitants. Does this not mean that they then press forward a private offer, if the municipality of Eidskog does this, or is it just the case if individuals and employers do it? The principle should have been that Helga Pedersen then said that it is forbidden to insure if you think it is a challenge, not because an employer or someone else does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1584	Let me first follow up on the question of privatisation and ask about the privatisation of the school, because in the debate on the throne, right after a little over and that, yes, they will start a privatisation of the school again if they win the election, and reintroduce the old Refreshle Law. We had a little bit of experience with that, because we tried it out a little while before the red-green water. In some Norwegian cities, such as Drammen and Tromsø, a number of schools were granted their application for up to 25 pst. of the total student mass in the counties concerned. The result would have been that if they had gotten elephants, they would have lost many of the district bullets in the same county. And then we know from countries that have a lot of students in private schools, that it's one of the most important explanations of great differences, and that there's a lot of difference in class. My double question is: How will district Norway cope with the privatisation of the school, and how will it contribute to smaller differences, of which Erna Solberg has been busy the last week?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1591	We're primarily concerned that the public school is going to be good, that the 98 pst. by Norwegian students attending a public school shall meet a school offering them an opportunity to reach out, to build their own qualifications and knowledge. I think it's so funny that the left-hand side uses 98 pst. of her time in debates about school to talk about private schools, despite the fact that there is only 2 pst. by the students who go there. We tend to pick the opposite. We're talking 2 pst. whether what we think is right, that parents should have the right to choose which education their children should have. It should not be the case that some pedagogue or other pedagogue that got a good idea in the early 1900s should stop the development of other pedagogical ideas. That's what's happening today. We only approve stone schools and montessori schools. It could be a new creative educator who has a good offer that we can learn from, because we believe in diversity. There were some schools that I was really fascinated by, that didn't realize, schools with completely new pedagogical methods, which were invented by Norwegian teachers, but were not approved. When this government changed the policy, we lost something, for this could be exciting to see realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1600	Perhaps the representative Solberg is aiming for the 15 John Bauer bullets that never got to try. I'll ask you something else. A few years ago, the representative Røe Isaksen wrote a memorable article in the Contemporary Times called ‘When Harry met Preben’. I'd like to quote a little bit from him: ‘I am tempted to say that the Right and the FrP alone will bring out the worst in each other. Such an alternative risks becoming unliberal in immigration policy, by tightening the numbers of people who get to the richest country in the world. In relation to privacy and rights, the batong-fleet in the Right will fetch strength from FrP's me for more powers to the police. In environmental policy, industry will always win at the expense of the environment. In international policy, the path will go towards more trade, but not towards increasing sensible assistance that really helps the world's poorest. The option will be too state-friendly at the expense of local self-government and technocratic in matters of ethics and biotechnology. To mention something." It might be interesting to ask the representative for Solberg's comment, simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1614	My comment is that I am not as pessimistic as Torbjørn Røe Isaksen was in his younger days. I am much more optimistic that the Right will be able to make a good impact on the policies we stand for in the future negotiations we are going to have. Pessimism isn't that much for me. I am also going to be part of a government I can accept the policy of. And yes, it will be a tight immigration policy in the field of asylum, but it will be a policy that will also help it to be decent and fair. It will be a policy that will help us to take care of the human world also in biotechnology. It's important for the Right to take care of it. It's going to be a policy, no matter who we end up working with, which we can stand for, with our liberal and conservative ideas. We have so much on the civil side as I think we can realize. SMEs will have better framework conditions. We have to make sure that the school gets a knowledge focus in the years to come. We should not least ensure that we also give entrepreneurs a greater opportunity to be left with a little more, and a little more motivation to create good and safe jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1623	I agreed with the introduction to the representative Solberg: Mass is ‘locked down’, the state has bonds. I could not agree more. That is why I am surprised that the traditional conservative and decent party is bubbling over an agreement concluded between the State and one of Norway’s main district industries, namely agriculture. From 1 January onwards, farmers – whose policies are implemented by the Right – will have to comply with completely different framework conditions than they have, and they have entered into an agreement with the State. So my questions to the representative are, point one: is there any other industry that the Right would behave the same way towards? Point two: The representative of Solberg clearly dreams of becoming a prime minister. How will the agricultural policy of a Right Party government be when the Right side cuts $1.7 billion. kr and the Sprittspartet kutter by 6,4 brd. kr, and you want a totally different customs protection. How, then, will Norwegian agriculture appear under your leadership?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1636	I am absolutely sure that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, knows very well that over a long time, the Right has wanted a different arrangement for agricultural policy from that of today's government. First of all, we wanted to release the farmer from many of the regulations that are currently in place, detailed regulations, so as from 1 January, not only would you as a farmer meet a little bit less transfers, but you would also see greater tax reliefs, you would have an experience of greater freedom, because it is related to our agricultural policy. That's why I think we can safely say that agriculture, especially in those parts that were concerned with being future-oriented, would get significantly better framework conditions than the picture the Centre is very often trying to draw from our agricultural policy. What we are proposing now is about the level of last year's level from today's government, and that wasn't terrible, was it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1643	Firstly, the last thing that Solberg's representative said was, directly wrong, because we haven't increased the transfer to agriculture by 1.7 billion. kr in a year. We have increased the transfer to agriculture by approx. 500 million. NOK one year, and in addition we have increased the possibility to charge a price. The right has become the spokesman for, point one: reduce the transfers by 1,7 billion. kr, point two: reduce customs protection. And if you take away the two most important supports for Norwegian agriculture, it won't be profitable again to tax for. The tax point is that you tax for profits, not for deficits, and if you both remove customs protection and reduce transfers, there is no profit. So my question is: can the representative from the Right guarantee that she does not want to find an intermediate solution with the Advance Party in the agricultural field, because then we will have a complete fury of today's Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1652	I can only answer for what is Right Policy and not for an imaginary government option, especially because the Right Basis is that we want to cooperate with four parties, not just with one. And it would be very special if we were to settle individual cases against one party in any row here, when we really want to see a government formed by the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party. But I am absolutely sure that we should find good solutions for Norwegian farmers. Yeah, we're a conservative party. Therefore, we do not make abrupt changes in agricultural policy either, but we do make small price changes that will give those who are full-time farmers greater freedom and stimulate them to use the additional resources. For example, I'm registering. that in many of the additional areas in which Norwegian farmers are involved — for example: the use of land, regulation from the county and other – there are today many farmers who say that they want Right-wing policy. So we want to tighten up the state's intervention in relation to what today's government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1662	Relatively small differences never came by themselves; they came from political struggle and political choices. And still even smaller class differences are not going to come about by themselves. We have to change Norway a little every year by tough road choices, by active policies to build up class divisions and give all equal opportunities, and that's what this state budget is all about. It is a budget to keep unemployment as low as possible. I listened a few days ago to the interview with a 22-year-old butcher from the city of Cork, the second-largest city in Ireland. He was in line outside the work office, with little hope of a job, with a pregnant wife and with many unpaid bills waiting for him at home. And I don't know what was bad about him -- the bad economy or the humiliating feeling of standing there. But both parts are hurting. Low unemployment is the most important basis for people to realize themselves in a society. Then this is a budget to reduce differences through early efforts: by investing in measures that can reduce non-compliance in secondary schools, by continuing the strong effort to improve the quality of the basic school, providing skills development for teachers, by investing in ear-tight child protection efforts, for which there is an urgent need in Norwegian municipalities. Through this we build a protection for children, but we also build a protection for society, because we know that children are better off for early protection. The Right Party and the Progress Party's alternative budget go in a different direction. It is a budget that can pave the way for future cooperation – many of the additions and cuts go in the same direction. On the right, one more step away from the centre of policy through this budget. It is obvious that the Right and Advance Party see more strongly than before, right-wing-right-cooperation alone. Perhaps the autumn of 2010 will be thinking like the time when Erna actually said the mother, Knut Arild, thanked for the follow-up to the Christian People's Party and bet on a Right-front party cooperation. But on the whole side of it, Erna Solberg speaks. ‘Relatively small differences are part of the glue in the Nordic communities’, she says in one of them a few days ago. Right, "that those who serve the most, should also contribute the most to the community," she also says. Where does it come from, I've been wondering, maybe it comes from Right's alternative state budget? No, it doesn't, because there's actually nothing about differences and social inequality or distribution at all, and the policy points in a completely different direction. Is it from the game program? No, there's actually nothing about such goals either. A search for the word distribution in the Right’s programme gives two matches to distribution – a match to distribution between health enterprises and a match to the sentence ‘the criteria for the allocation of allowances between the individual vessel groups are fixed’. [[...]] Fisheries policy is important, but not enough if there is a fair distribution. It is simply a rhetoric of a policy that does not exist – not in the programme, not in the alternative budget. It's like there's now two Right and two Right Party Leaders. It is disparity-Right, which has support in 120 years of history, the programme, the draft budget and the partners of the Progress Party. And then it's soft-right, which supports a couple of speakers who have been a lot in Sweden, I think, lately and look at how the right-hand side that has been successful with its rhetoric. The pregap is simply about to be large. The policy goes to the right, the partner is the Progress Party, but rhetoric goes against some kind of common Norse value. I have to say that I look forward with great commitment to a debate on what kind of policy can best do something about class differences in Norway in the future. We need more of that debate. And I look with great commitment to a debate on how we can develop the welfare state for a new generation. It is also one of the most important debates we are going to have in the future. Now we have put forward a budget on which we can build the debate, which will keep unemployment down, which is a good budget for the environment, which is a good budget for gender equality, where we have also been given the opportunity to help crisis centres in a transitional period, and which meet the major challenges of the red-green government in Norway over the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1684	It was interesting to hear the representative, Solhjell. Actually, the Right should have all the lines, because it was only the Right he talked about – nothing about SV's policy, but much about what he meant was Right Policy. I'm going to challenge him in another area, I'm going to challenge him on what the Minister of Finance said, that tax cuts mean over time well-being. Then he defines that all tax money goes to well-being, and that public money is the only one that can contribute to well-being. As an SV representative, maybe the representative Solhjell agrees. Or does he think that money that you have in your own pocket, which you can spend on what you want, can also be defined as well-being? In that case, the representative Solhjell is on the right of the Minister of Finance. It was a rather eye-catching statement from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1691	I am a little uncertain about whether I was stuck in all the turns, and what the question was. In order to take it a little bit in order: yes, I think that over time large tax cuts will necessarily mean cutbacks in the welfare state's schemes, whether it's through the voluntary sector that the public pays, or it's through public welfare schemes. That's how we fund those welfare schemes. So my view is, and I think the Minister of Finance really agrees with that, that we also have a very important subsector as well as the welfare state in Norway that does an invaluable job. I'm pretty sure that he will also agree, perhaps unlike Tybring-Gjedde, that we have a large and well-developed welfare state as the basis of Norwegian society, is the main reason why we can have small differences, and that relatively many people can do well in Norway, and a very good starting point to preserve the most important features of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1700	Does that mean, then, that the representative Solhjell believes that tax cuts do not necessarily affect well-being? If you have sound public welfare at the bottom, tax cuts can be quite ok, because then private people are allowed to dispose of more of their own earnings, or capital income, on their own well-being defined by themselves. Do I understand the representative Solhjell correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1705	No, the representative does not. The way to understand me is the following: if we cut taxes, so that we have less to spend on welfare, whether it's through the Church's Bymition running a hospital through public licenses, or that it's the municipality that drives him through public licenses, we get a weighty welfare state – that's how it will go. On the other hand, many people in Norway will have a tax cut with government policy – those who feel the least, or who have the least wealth. Very many people in Norway now do not pay taxes on wealth or have received less taxes on wealth. The reason for this is that we've done a real reallocation where the biggest assets pay a lot more. So we should have taxes for those with low incomes and wealth in Norway, it must be paid by those who have the most. But we have to keep up and increase the total revenue of the state in the future to ensure the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1711	I am very pleased that the representative, Solhjell, is taking time to immerse himself in the literature canon of Røe Isaksen. I can also recommend a book I published in 2008, which the representative can get from me, at a reduced price as well, if he wants more quotes. I was also going to use a quote. In a concrete way, I was going to use a quote from Kristin Halvorsen in 2005, where, at a public meeting, she directly attacked Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and said it was a shame that no more had been done with poverty in Norway. I actually think people are less concerned with quotes from five to six years ago, and more concerned with the consequences of politics. The truth is that after six years of red-green rule, based on the same poverty targets as in 2005, the proportion of children living in poverty in Norway has almost tripled. From 1999 to 2001, it was 3 pst. of the children who lived in poverty in Norway. From 2005 to 2008 it was 8 pst. What makes the representative Solhjell think that six more years with the same policy will lead to smaller differences and fewer poor children?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1722	First of all, a number of very important poverty and redistribution measures have been implemented. Some have started to work; others have not yet had a full effect, but they get it in the years to come. Let me just take those that I see as the four most important first: the qualification programme, which has now been rolled across the whole country, which means that many people come back to work that didn't before. We see that in many places it is a success. Social assistance has been increased twice, that's the first time we've had a social assistance norm that they've been increased. We have put in place a new support system, which probably hasn't started working yet, because it didn't come too fully until last year. And we've had an increase in the minimum pension that makes it a completely different level of the minimum pension now. All of this helps to reduce poverty in Norway. But the numbers we see now show that we have to do even more in the years to come. I feel reasonablely convinced that a party that has fought social differences and poverty throughout its history is going to do far better than a party that, for a week, found that social differences were important, and that in all its history has represented those who are the richest and most powerful in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1731	The representative Solhell was concerned that there are some parties operating with two wings. Now I'm wondering if there might be more games that do that. When Bård Vegar Solhjell was on a tour in Nord-Trøndelag the other day, the question of predatory policies came up. He then says that it is not only SV who is responsible for this policy, but the entire government, and he expressed that they are taking care of the predators through a strict policy. It led to a race of opinions up in the Nord-Trøndelag, where among other things. The SV rapporteur in Namskogan went out and said that he was aware that this was probably a meaning among central SVs, who he was afraid of having to live with, but that they could not live with it there. The question is: does Solhell stand for what he has clearly expressed through the media in the Nord-Trundelag, and is there therefore two different wings in SV in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1740	I have been contacted by several who think different things in that debate, afterwards, and from several parties. So I have written a post and given an interview afterwards where I have written what I mean, what SV means, and what the government means in that question. We have a balanced predatory policy, based on the predatory settlement, where the point is to take care of two things. The one thing is that we're going to have viable populations of the great predators in Norway in the future. At the same time, there shall be viable conditions for those who are engaged in the feeding of sheep and in other industries based on grazing. It may be demanding in many situations, and that is also why we are now going to have a review of predatory policies, where we are looking at stock targets and assessing how a balanced predatory policy can best be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1747	The representative of Solhjell began his article very well. He's talking about poverty, he's talking about fair distribution. But then even the post with a real slaughter of the Right and the Advance Party. In many ways, I think that's perhaps the way it's happened to the government too: it's getting a little talk about poverty, and then they get more involved in rhetoric and in slaughtering the Right Party and the Progress Party. But there are the results that count, and the result is that there have become more poor, especially more poor children. There's a lot of good in this budget. There's more to poverty, but it's very little targeted, and it's passive. In the election campaign, the leader of SV had a different point than the four that Soljell listed instead. What was the most important poverty response, which was simply a norm, standardised rates of social assistance. The Christian People's Party is making that proposal. We want to increase the rate by 5 pst. in this budget. I ask myself why SV cannot support that action. Does Solhell believe that there will be one of the party's highest priority poverty measures, or does it go like the Council of State Lighthouse was in a post, that it is simply being scrapped?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1758	First of all, I must say that this is not what the Council of State Lighthouse has said. But then I'm going to say that I agree with the Christian People's Party that raising social assistance, as we did in two rounds in the previous period, but also getting a norm with a stronger government governance is important and necessary in the years that come. We've got social assistance up. Then, in connection with the distribution message and other matters ahead, we have to look at how we're going to move on to ensure a good and worthy social assistance for everyone. I think we can easily become a few that it is an important measure, but alone will not fully eradicate poverty. Therefore, I focus on the width of measures. I could also have stressed the many things that will prevent poverty in the next generation: the kindergarten reform, the fact that we are now taking up the SFO scheme and introducing a free hour of homework there, and a series of other measures that will create the arenas where kids can participate, that the price goes down, so that the most possible is included. It provides a better basis for smaller differences in next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1765	I want to follow the path of poverty. The left has re-prioritized approximately in its alternative budget. 1.8 B.C.E. kr to our poverty commitment, mainly related to helping children. Kids don't choose their childhood, so it's an important priority for us. I was in many debates about poverty in the election campaign. It was a big topic in the election campaign, and many organisations invited us to debate. One of the main questions in the vast majority of places was why we can't reach SIFO level, so do SIFO's research and their level serve as the basis for social aid rates? Then I experienced time after time that Kristin Halvorsen said that it was a really good idea. Research shows – and I don't think that research is under discussion – that people get to work more easily if they have such a large space for action. So I hope now that Solhell can promise us that he will look at the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party and get up the social aid rates. It's a very focused bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1774	It is very good that the Left has looked at an SV proposal that we have put into Stortinget for many years and worked hard with, some of them were with us and now put it in. That means that more people are fighting to raise social aid rates and give a decent economy to people. Because it's right, as the representative Skei Grande says, it's not like people get more motivated to move on in life by having it think economically. They're going to have it financially. So it wasn't exactly the election result for either Left or SV's part – we can be sure – that it gave massive support to what we had in the election campaign. And that's what the challenge is here: few more – whether they're on the left side or on the right side of the policy – to make some people think that higher rates of social assistance are also necessary. I would also say that there is a wide range of measures necessary to eradicate the poverty problem in Norway. There are prevention measures to reduce differences — the different measures I mention in my first response. I want to add a very important thing now: Child Protection. Extremely many of those who have come into contact with child protection will be poor later, and many could have been helped if we had a better child-restraint, which took hold of the kids in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1783	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1786	In countries by country in Europe, governments and national parliaments implement dramatic cuts in their budgets. This year we have seen mass demonstrations in the streets in European capitals, and the crisis that is affecting our European friends is, of course, affecting those who have the least, the most. In Spain, for example, half of youth coal goes from school bench to job queues. The euro and the EU, our main trading partner, are in deep crisis, and it will not be a week without hearing about new crisis meetings. Six months ago it was Greece, now Ireland dominates the headlines – a country that is close to us and that has gone from uphill to downhill in a short time. Norway is a different country in Europe. Over the past few years, we have clearly the most important thing to do, to keep people in work and to use the country's resources. This is no obvious, and it requires some of us who govern, that we govern so today that we secure people's work now, and that we ensure a stable development of the country over time. A week ago, the new President of the European Union said that the European Union and the euro are facing a crisis of life and death. Yesterday, the German Finance Minister gave a speech in the German Parliament saying that the euro is in danger. I hope that the EU countries will succeed in correcting the shooting, because it will hit ordinary people so hard if they can't do it. But it is essential that Norway should be able to pursue its own monetary policy that we have our own currency. The freedom of action we have is the best solution for our country. I am surprised that the Right does not see this, and that they made themselves speakers last week to introduce the euro into Norway. Over time, the centre has given priority to building the country and reducing distances in Norway through a targeted focus on transport. Although we are strongly committed to this budget both on the road and on the road, we must step up, for there are major tasks that remain. We're going to take out the potential for value creation around the country, and then the link between nutrition and transport is very important. Good transport solutions are essential for creating new jobs and for people to live where they want to. We promised a change of pace in our transport policy, and we are in the process of doing so. We upgrade the infrastructure, it makes everyday life easier for people, and it strengthens the competitiveness of business. The most obvious difference between us red-green and the dark blue in business policy is that the Right Alternative Budget goes in to cut agricultural support by 1.7 billion. kr and the Advance Party by 6,4 br. kr. In addition, they will modify the import protection. Such a policy would upset Norwegian agriculture, and it is frightening to imagine a government where the Right Party and the Advance Party will rule together. It will mean the hook at the door for large parts of agriculture, and a huge decline in the Norwegian food industry. Another area where the government has led a marked policy other than what the Right did when they had power is in terms of the municipalities. The government has greatly strengthened the municipal economy since we took over in 2005. Even though we've increased the municipal budgets by over 40 billion. kr, is it still crowded in many municipalities, and why is that? Yes, because the money has been used. From 2005 to 2009, there have been 16 400 more annual shifts in care. There are eleven new jobs every day. There have been over 10,000 more year-olds in kindergartens, and the number of year-olds in primary schools has increased by almost 10 pst. So the money has gone into putting people into work and strengthening local welfare. In addition to new jobs, large investments have been made, not least in the kindergarten sector, where a revolution has been carried out that makes us today – we young children’s parents – secure that we have kindergarten space for our children when we want it. So politics has worked. But we're going to expand, and that shows the budget, and we're showing that in the new era of increasing the municipal economy there by 1 billion. kr and in the budget to increase revenue by a further 5.7 billion. kr. With a red-green policy, we will continue to focus on better welfare, school and care where people live, because it is more important than tax havens. We are pursuing a transport policy, an industrial policy and a community economic policy that will lay the foundation for development across the country, which is to balance differences, not strengthen them. That's the greatest difference between this government and other governments. We want a society where the differences get smaller, not larger.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1805	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1809	Let me first give a compliment to the Battle of Vedum for his commitment to Europe and the solidarity we should show the rest of the world. It's not always the same thing that's prominent from the Center Party. Then he's also concerned about what we're going to live on in the future. Tax as an incentive for business is very important, including in agriculture. We have heard the representative Lundteigen earlier today. I perceive that Lundtigen speaks hot to eliminate the taxation of working capital. It will be a very important measure in the long term. But then we hear from the red-green speakers here today that tax relief is undermining well-being. Can violence Vedum say to me, Does he agree with his brother Lundtigen? And: What welfare will be undermined by removing the wealth tax on working capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1816	It's nice to be called "brother" by Lundteigen. We have a little bit of the same hair fastening, so it could be, in addition to party relationship, some similarities, but I'm going to go to what you took line on. First of all, the representative had a small sluggish remark at the beginning of his line that we are not showing solidarity with other countries. If we look at the aid budget, it's the red-green ones who are just lifting the aid, while it's right-wing. We have solidarity longer than Europe, because the world is larger than Europe. That's why we're lifting development aid and proud to be part of it. In the case of working capital: we need property taxes in our budgets to get to our bets, but we believe that over time we have to try to spare that part of the capital that creates more values, not the sleeping capital. We need taxes on wealth and taxes from those who have tax powers, but we have to try to protect, for example. the part of the wealth that then goes to direct value added for the enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1825	I understand that the Central Party and the Government are going to balance their budgets, I understand that. But I also understand the answer to Battle violence Vedum there that he believes that reducing the wealth tax, perhaps even removing it, will not mean anything for well-being; it will, on the contrary, stimulate it further. So the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has talked a lot about agricultural policy today and about the alternative budget of the Right. The situation in agriculture is such that new investment is required. On the right, significant measures have been proposed to increase investment in agriculture, including: tax relief, depreciation increases and investment funds that reduce the tax. Would the representative, Mr Vedum, also support this type of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1832	First, I just have to make it clear that the Center Party wants to continue taxes on wealth. We want to target it, so it gets even more precise. That's point one. Point 2: I come from that part of the country where we have the largest units of Norwegian agriculture, which operates most «rationally» and which delivers the largest volume. These are the ones that will be hit hardest if you implement the Right Agricultural Policy. If you produce more and more and you don't earn anything per unit, you will go with net loss. If the Right implements its cuts in both transfers and reduced customs protection, some of the largest producers will not be able to profit from what they produce. At that time, there is no point in making initial investments, making heavy investments within, for example: chicken and pig – the type of production where the margins are so small that you will actually lose per unit you produce instead of earning per unit you produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1839	The President shall record that the agent Fleet has requested a third line. The president is a little bit unsure right now if there's room for that, and asks the representative to sign up if there's room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1842	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum was busy talking about things that hit those who have the least. Now we experience a situation where one today was told that the electricity price would go up to 80 centimetres per kWh, and we are only at the beginning of winter. It's the state that milks the power customers here because the state and the government own most of the power production. The opposition has a proposal in the budget today, where one says one should follow the evolution in electricity prices, and if one sees that this is getting worse than normal, one more thread with extra housing support should be for those who have at least and are hit most when electricity prices go into weather. That proposal does not support the government. On Bioenergy Day 2010, SV's Snorre Serigstad Valen said he wants a higher electricity price. Now he's got it. My question to the representative for the Battle of Vedum is, since the Central Party has the Minister for Oil and Energy: Does the Centre Party agree with the approach to SV? If no, what measures does the representative see that the government will come to help those who have the least but are hit most by high electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1851	The government stands united behind the energy policy of the government. There is no explicit objective for the government to pursue a policy that leads to higher electricity prices. We want to have a stable and good development with the development of Norwegian hydropower and Norwegian renewable resources. That's what the government has done. We have implemented a commitment to developing district heating in order to ensure stable heat and also to use a renewable resource, namely wood. If you travel around Norway now, you will see that there has been a large expansion of district heating systems especially in urban areas. The mass landfill ban imposed by the government last year has also resulted in the construction of large waste incineration plants in recent years, which also ensure a stable supply of heat to many of the country's major cities. Of course, the government is following developments in electricity prices carefully, but it's a market, and then we have to keep trying to get more power into the market, so that prices don't get unnecessarily high.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1860	The problem that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, has not touched on is that despite the fact that something has happened in energy policy – but too little – we have seen that electricity prices have increased steadily under this government, and so they reach new heights in winter. Last year one was up to 14 kroner per kWh, although it was only for a few hours, but the average price over several days in Central Norway was more than 2 to 3 kroner per kWh. So it's not useful to show that one has built up some incineration plants when the consequences of the totality of the government's energy policy are that power prices are rising sharply, and those that have the least are hit the most. The government parties in this budget show that they do not wish to support the opposition's proposal to use the housing aid more actively when electricity prices go up. The government has previously voted against the Progress Party's wish to use the electricity charging mechanism more actively. It has also voted against using mobile gas power plants to improve the short-term power balance. The question I repeat then is: When the consequences of government policy are that in winter there will be much higher electricity prices – what measures does the government have to take to help those who have the least in that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1867	As I said before, some of the government's efforts in energy policy have been to further expand renewable energy resources, both wind, water and not least bio, and also now after the garbage ban: to use garbage as a resource for building up buildings. With regard to the power situation and the power balance in Norway, another important measure by the government has been to develop more line capacity to bring more electricity into the areas that have major challenges and major price problems, including: Middle Norway. There is an ongoing effort to improve the exchange of electricity between regions in Norway, but also between countries, in order to have a more stable electricity price around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1874	I expect that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum is as uncomfortable to be called socialist as I am being called bourgeois. For me, the centre is probably so much about the political issues and the political solutions as it is about a purely cooperation context. Center policy often gives us other solutions. Over the last few years, the government has chosen to spend several billion dollars on several teaching hours for the very least and free hours in the SFO – all to be at full speed into the full-time school project. This is something that both the right and the left have supported in Norwegian politics, while the Christian People's Party solutions have been that we have thought that the teacher is the most important resource, we need more and better teachers, and we need to invest the big money in this. I believe that the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, is pursuing a good central policy by using 1.3 billion. kr in several hours for the very least rather than spending the money on the teachers and in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1883	Yeah, I think we're running a good center policy. The Soria Moria II statement warned that the main focus is to create content in school — increasing teacher density, and that one will not now run a massive further escalation of school hours. That is clearly stated in the government statement. Over the five years we've been in government, there's been an increase in teacher's density in school. It was 10 pst. More employees at school from 2005 to 2009, and that is what we have announced. Now we say that there are not new, large increments of the number of hours needed, but a further bet on the content.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1889	I see the representative refers to Soria Moria. But the point is that all the money you spend at school has been chosen to spend on increasing hours, including in the current year's budget, so that the increased number of teachers have agreed to fill the increased number of hours that this government has spent in the school. When I talk to teachers at school, they say that what they need is more teachers, they want more skills, and they haven't asked for these increased hours. It doesn't help to refer to a Soria Moria statement if you can't point to what you actually deliver. So my question remains: does the representative think it's important that the big money, i.e. 1.3 billion. kr annually, should this increase in the number of hours that this government has put on the school? Or do you want to spend this money differently, to strengthen the school so that it actually becomes a good place to learn and a good place to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1896	I replied to that instead. Yes, I believe it has been right that we have done an hourly increase in school. The government has done that together. We've added more resources to the school. It was 10 pst. several employees from 2005 to 2009. We also have increased learning capacity to follow up those hours. The government has announced that, in the future, there are not large hourly increases that are their priority, but now it is to continue to invest in the content of the school, increase the teacher's density so that we fill the school with a good and qualified content.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1903	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1906	The main issue of the Christian People's Party in our alternative budget is dignity, dignity in the care of the elderly. We want to strengthen the rights of the elderly. It means a nursing home place when you need it. That means being able to get out. It means life help or relief at the end of life. In the earlier agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it was also demarcated. It was followed up by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg when he launched the retirement plan in the 2009 election campaign, together with Gro Harlem Brundtland. Then Jens Stoltenberg said, ‘We shall strengthen the rights of the elderly by means of a legislative amendment and a new regulation on worthy care for the elderly.’ The Christian People's Party assumes that this promise will be fulfilled word by word. To establish first and last, strengthening the rights of the elderly to a decent care costs money. If you're going to get a sick home place when you need it, you need to build and operate more hospitals than we have today, and to get out whenever you want, there must be more people who can follow you when you can't go alone. And in order to get life support in the final phase of life, there must be someone who can give it, who has competence for it and who has the means – throughout the country. There must be nurses and other health professionals who have insight into what it means to relieve physical, mental, existential and spiritual pain. According to KS, the government's proposal to increase the free revenues next year is not enough. It doesn't give room for new bets, just to take away the increase in number of caressing. It is essential that municipalities are given financial autonomy for new initiatives in the care of the elderly. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes an alternative budget of over 1 billion. to strengthen care for the elderly both with free resources for municipalities and with targeted measures. Among other things, the Christian People's Party will continue to set up day-to-day services for residents. There the government lies sadly behind in its bet. This is a neglected group. Only 7 pst. has such an offer today. Daily provision makes sense in everyday life and relieves family members, which may delay the need for accommodation. The expansion of nursing homes is also too slow. The Christian People's Party fears that we will have a new crisis in the care of the elderly, and we believe that the state must take more of the hospital bill for the municipalities. Based on the signals that have come from the government recently, we are pleased to note that the government seems to follow up our proposal from earlier this year on just this. This is about dignity, yes, it is about propriety for those who have built the welfare society for which Norway receives a premium on the UN indices every year. Dignity is also the key when we, as a nation, go ahead to combat extreme poverty in the world. It's about human dignity and dignity. The finance minister had an interesting introduction to his post today: What does Norway look like from the outside? We are the world's richest in many ways. We're the world's best country to live in. In the Christian People's Party, we do not want a picture of Norway in which we, who are so well placed, rush and kiss the taxes to ourselves, financed by billions of dollars in the budgets to combat poverty, extreme poverty, in the world. We know that effort saves lives every day. So focused is a lot of that effort. So we know that billions of pieces in the class we're going to vote over here tonight will have the opposite effect. There will be more lives lost as a result of e.g. Cuts on the vaccine bet, which are perhaps some of the most targeted Norway currently involved in assistance. This is about dignity. But it's also about propriety. It's about how we manage the unique situation we've come into, which neither the older nor the younger have brought us into, but which the creation has given us to manage. If we are to stand in history as a generation that has managed the opportunities that Norway has today, with dignity and propriety, we cannot afford ourselves even more prosperity by financing it with the fight against extreme poverty in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1930	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1933	I believe that the representative Højbräten has made a very correct and very important contribution, which put into perspective the things that it is important to have discussed, when we are now discussing our own financial approach for next year. We've now been presented with the opposition setup. We see that in the case of the right hand party, this is about one thing – on which the Højbråten was significantly involved – namely tax relief. Their main political commitment is to provide tax relief. And it's a policy that points in a completely different direction than what was the content of the Højbråten post, so I now clearly heard it. The Christian People's Party also has completely different priorities in its own alternative budget. It is a distribution perspective and it is the fight against the commercialisation of our health and care services. Of course, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are united on such a line. The question that, in the extension of this reasoning, it is central to ask the Højbråt is: Is it not possible for the Christian People's Party to say very clearly now that there can be no possibility of choosing a right-wing government instead of the government that is now sitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1942	I had expected the representative of Kolberg to ask questions about the Christian People's Party's policy. I just want to say quite briefly: the Christian People's Party is going to stand for this policy, no matter what kind of government we get. We are not satisfied with the sitting government. We're not satisfied with the government's family policy. We are not satisfied with the government's policy towards voluntary institutions; it has become clear in this debate. We are not satisfied with the government in its fight against poverty, either in Norway or out. We are going to support the government that gives us more Christian People's Party policy. At the moment, there are not very clear prospects for such a government. If we don't get a government that gives us more Christian People's Party policy, the Christian People's Party is an opposition party that will deal with it on a case-by-case basis at any time. But we're in 2010. The election is in 2013. It is far too early to ask the kind of question that Mr Kolberg's representative is asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1951	The representative, Højbräten, says he's surprised that I'm not asking about the Christian People's Party's policy. First of all, I did a lot of what he said. Secondly, the question of which main line Norway should follow will, of course, relate to what kind of government you want in the longer term. I hear that the Christian People's Party says they won't support SV, and they won't support the Progress Party – it's like the extremes. But we see clearly that the realistic option now is that the right hand parts stand together. They have even confirmed it today, in this debate. And it's not too much, or wrong demanded, that you ask the Christian People's Party how they want to place themselves here. It is said here that you will support a government where you will get more Christian People's Party policy. It is from that perspective that I ask the representative Højbräten how he thinks that an alternative government can support Christian People's Party policy more than what the sitting government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1960	We have experience, historically. I then speak on behalf of a party that has participated in all coalition governments after the war, as close as the one who is now sitting. And we've led three out of seven such coalition governments. We have indeed taken responsibility. Our experience is that we get the most impact of Christian People's Party policy in the centre and in cooperation between the centre and the right. It's no secret that it's our priority. Then the representative of Kolberg has quite correctly understood that we do not want a government that has a battle side to the extremes of Norwegian policy. We want an alternative to a government we on many points are dissatisfied with. We'll work on that. It's three years before the big shot. That's why it's completely unreasonable to demand that, based on an imaginary composition of the Storing, we wonder what the government options will look like. Before the 2013 elections, the voters and Kolberg will get a clear answer on where we stand in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1969	There is a debate on the free principle of higher education. Several have been out saying that we should introduce tuition fees. Among other things, the principal at BI has said that this makes sense, because then the students will be more motivated – just as if it is not expensive enough before studying. As you can see, it was surprising – and disappointing, seafaring – for us in SV that it was the Christian People's Party that was going to put in some sort of first proposal or an approach to setting up such a tuition fee, that foreign students now have to pay for themselves. I think that's stupid, for many reasons. First of all, there are many third-world students who come to us, and as much as offering them studies, we really should be able to afford. Secondly, the experience from other countries is, among other things, In our neighbouring countries, when they introduced such a tuition fee, there were far fewer foreign students. Both in Sweden and Denmark, they have started recruitment programmes to get them back in place. And our university and college students say it's important just to get foreign students into our classrooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1976	It is a misunderstanding if SV has read the Christian People's Party's alternative budget so that we will introduce a general tuition fee at Norwegian universities and colleges. We won't. We stand on the free principle and believe it is an important guideline for higher education in Norway. At the same time, as an action in our budget, we have a proposal to impose a levy on foreign students in Norway. We do that because we see that a number of countries around us do the same thing. And we see that it can be done without a break with the main principle that applies to studies in Norway. Students who are targeted to help with education in Norway can be helped by other means, such as: through grant schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1984	I think I said that I had the right idea, that it was just foreign students. I repeat my point: I think it's stupid, not least for Norway, that we don't give ourselves the opportunity to get many foreign students to us. For there are many arguments for not coming to Norway, among others. because we are a small country, speak Norwegian etc. When we get a clear message from the management both at colleges and universities that it's a enriching thing for us to get the foreign students here, I think it's strange and extra disappointing that the Christian People's Party is going in the rush to get fewer students. I don't think that's right for a knowledge nation like Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1991	It is up to any representative to believe that the policy of the Christian People's Party is unwise. When we do this, it's because, as part of our alternative budget, we actually have a much stronger commitment to education, research and basic education combined than what's in the government's arrangement. We don't think it's unreasonable to fund it with a kind of system that is becoming more and more common in our neighbouring countries, and that can be implemented in such a way that the special considerations that the representative is concerned with, and that I am very much in agreement with, are taken into account in the design of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e1996	The Christian People’s Party’s 2011 alternative budget is entitled ‘A warmer society’. I have to admit that it is a good document they have submitted, and I don't think Norway would have been hurt to live in if you had done this completely. But I want to go back a little bit to the question that Mr Kolberg's representative was asking, namely that we have been presented today with the Economic Policy of the Right and the Advance Party. Then I think it is relevant to know how one considers it, which document is closest to the Christian People's Party's policy, whether it is the government's budget or the sum of the Right and Advance Party's budget proposals. Because it's about what glasses I'm going to wear when I read the document "A warmer society," and I want the answer to how this document will eventually work out in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2003	I think the representative Pollestad has read this document very well when he saw until the degrees can print it to his heart like what he is doing now. This suggests that the representative Pollestad has a beating center heart, because it is a good center policy Christian People's Party has presented. We are correcting some of the unsocial features of the proposal put forward by the red-green government, among others. in the case of efforts to combat poverty in Norway, in the case of family bets, in the case of bets on non-governmental organisations and in the case of bets on drug addicts, which are some of those at the lowest and lowest levels in the Norwegian welfare community. Then people get to judge for themselves how this is positioned in the political landscape. We haven't taken the goal of putting this into a kind of political geometry that only has one dimension -- right and left. Norwegian policy is much more complex than that. This is a good center policy. That's good Christian People's Party policy. We are proud of the draft budget we have presented, and we would like to cooperate with other parties to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2012	Since the Center Party chose to go to the centre-left after the Christian People's Party had tried the center-right, we have increased development aid quite strongly. The Christian People's Party has always been a little more impatient than the government has been, but it has gone in the right direction. We've increased the number of quota movements. There has also been a little more impatient Christian People's Party, while the Right Party and the Advance Party also wanted to reduce there, just like in development aid. We've increased the alcohol charges. The Christian People's Party is also there a little impatient, while the Right Party and the Advance Party want to go in the opposite direction. As far as agriculture is concerned, we have increased aid. Even there, the Christian People's Party has sometimes been a little more impatient, while the Right Party and the Advance Party have wanted to go in the opposite direction. We've increased the bet on the municipal sector. There too, the Christian People's Party has been more impatient, while the Right and Advance Party have wanted a completely different model. As a good center friend, I hope that also the Christian People's Party sees that it is in the centre-left the good solutions lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2017	Good central policy is to take as a starting point to cooperate both on the right and on the left, in view of where a person gets an impact on that policy. The centre party has chosen to abandon that principle in its central policy and has committed itself to cooperating with SV in all matters. It gives some results that are not very favourable at all – cut into cash support, cut into tax-free gifts, cut into important social purposes and tighten up in the voluntary sector that I think the Centre party is actually a little over, if they are to be completely honest. We have the experience with the Right – now I am not here to provide other parties with certificates – that they are best placed to cooperate with the Christian People's Party. We then got them in the right direction with regard to very many of the issues to which the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum refers, not least with regard to the assistance. Then we see how it goes when they are released from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2024	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2027	Making a government budget is about making choices for the future. What the Left essentially disagrees with this government is that this government only looks at the future in a 1-year perspective, while we believe that there must be major strategic choices today when you have the space for action, in order to make the strategic choices for the future. That's why education is so important. Education has always been the most important thing on the agenda of the Left – right from Johannes Steen stood here and presented the plan for a comprehensive public school. I am absolutely sure that Johannes Steen's fight for education, for everyone's right to learn to read, and for everyone to sit on the same school bench, was probably met with many questions about needing this knowledge. Isn't it incredibly wasted that many of the children who could have worked and earned income for the family should sit here and learn to read documents and hymns they're never going to deal with? Lell was Johannes Steen's reform so important. It's about democracy, it's about an individual's development – and a society wants to have citizens who are involved in developing the country. You should not go in and order the citizens you want. You have to believe in knowledge as a driving force, as an energy, to change the country. I want to give an example. I visited Romania right after the revolution and lived at a hotel in Bucuresti. The electric door broke. The hotel employed two men to walk up the door and drag it again each time someone went through it. Clearly, it created two jobs. But it is a visible proof of a country that is under a very pressure and that has very poor prospects. A country that manages to educate its people to say that this is too stupid a job to do, we have to do something about it, and where knowledge becomes cheaper, is a society that actually manages to create well-being in the future. And both the public and private sectors need these changes. There are many things we can do in the public sector, both to make it better and more effective and to increase quality. To do that, we need knowledge. It is a misinterpretation to believe that the public sector is currently lacking. The public sector today lacks heads. That's why the whole debate we've seen in the media in the last few days, that we're educating our people too much, is a basic misinterpretation. Of course, people will have to choose the type of education they want — and whether they want to be educated. But a society must always facilitate the widest possible knowledge in its minds. As someone I have discussed by e-mail in the last few days, says that it is crystal clear what society needs at the same time. No, it's not crystal clear. It's actually very crystal clear that if we were to sit down here and think about what the knowledge society needs in the future, I can guarantee that we're wrong. It has been done by politicians, it has been done by social debates since the morning, because that answer is not in any research report, that is not the answer in any political debate. That answer lies in each individual's head, in each individual's burning commitment, in each individual citizen of a society. This is the ideological basis, this is the strategic choice that we in the Left have made in our alternative budget: rate of quality in Norwegian school, bet properly on research when we have room for action to do so! Tell all the qualified students who line up in thousands in front of Norwegian universities and want to get a place to study: Be as good – seek as much knowledge as you can! The left has added 2.2 billion. kr more to focus on research, knowledge and school. We've added over 70 billion. kr more in the Research Fund. This is also related to what we do on the environmental side. It's a change by doing something new. Fresh business must be able to create jobs in the future – based on knowledge, based on a balanced environment. Find the solutions that people can live with in the future! The environmental policy of the left is far from the environmental policy of the 1970s, which was about bans and regulations. We're making arrangements to create a new business. Much of that business can be created in Norwegian districts, only we are willing to use our tax system, only we are willing to use the entire tax system, so that people are involved in creating jobs in the future. That's the choices we should have made here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2047	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2050	It may seem a little special that I'm starting my line by saying that the representatives from the opposition parties are making very good contributions, but I'd like to repeat that now. Everything that was said about the Joint School by the representative Skei Grandes, I fully support. It has been a long fight – and is today – against the right-wing attempts to privatize the school and thus destroy what Left created in its time. Because that's what's the threat to what Skei Grande said in his post. It is such that the Left in a very good way in front of the last big shot was the guarantor that the Advance Party would not be in government. They would under no circumstances support such a government. The justification was financial irresponsibility and a view of immigration that the Left would not support. What we've heard today, and as we've seen in the alternative budgets, was that the left at the time was completely right. So now the right-hand party has been invited into government. The question then is: Does the Left stand at its position that under no circumstances will they support a government in which the Progress Party is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2057	I must first answer the fascination of Johannes Steen, who is one of my great heroes in the Left History, and with whom I am very proud to stand in tradition with, as far as the school he created is concerned. The left will always be seen as the most important public school, but we see no threat that others are trying other pedagogical and other opportunities. We were very behind the law when we were in government, and we believe that this is a good grant. The challenge in Norwegian school is not about the 2 pst. who goes to private school. It's about having a school that doesn't give teachers enough backing to do their job, which makes them actually reproduce the social differences that Johannes Steen fought against. Before we manage to prioritize it – something the government does not – we fail those children who are the weakest and who do not get help in Norwegian school. The left is a guarantor of the Left's policy. And to put it simply – because I have 10 seconds: the left makes choices for a radical environmental policy. We do not believe that we will get it together with the Progress Party, but we do not believe that we will get it together with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2065	There was no answer to the central question. It's probably because it's very challenging for the representative Skei Grande to do it. But then I have to ask: is it so to understand that the Left's parliamentary leader will not now confirm the line that the Left stood for in the last election, namely that under no circumstances would they support a government in which the Progress Party was involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2073	I'd like to answer that. For the left, the positions are not the most important. It's been in the workers' party tradition. The working party is happy with the black cars and the fine jobs that the government provides. For the Left, it's not the most important thing. For us, the most important environmental policy is to get a grip on business and tax policy, and to get to the knowledge policy that I talked about. That's what we're going to vote for. That is the policy we are guarantors of. And then I can say that we see that it is not possible to achieve a radical change – of environmental policy, of tax policy, which is needed, of a shift from red to green tax and of a new industrial policy – either with the Workers' Party or with the Progress Party. The left is a center party. We're going to fight for center solutions, and we're the guarantor of politics. That also means that you're a guarantor of some games. But I want to focus on politics, because that's the policy that matters here -- that's what we get from our voters to do something about -- not who's driving the black cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2080	Some of them that are not guaranteed to drive so many black cars are cleaners. There are people who come here to Norway, preferably from countries where there is a lot of poverty, to get a better future. In such a situation, it is often also vulnerable to exploitation. As the representative Skei Grande probably understands, I'm going to get into the topic of social dumping. It's very disappointing that a party like the Left, which has a very great tradition of being a liberal party in immigration, doesn't see that it leads to a special responsibility to care for the groups that come here. It is quite strange to read statements made by Skei Grande in the persuasion debate, where she said that she felt it was given that Norwegian pay and work conditions would remain the same if there were no strong measures against social dumping, because ‘people are free to make agreements with their employers’, and then we see that they ‘are not stupider than that they actually make good agreements’. Those who haven't done it, are they stupid?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2089	I had really hoped that SV would ask this question, because this question they have asked to the Left in several debates, and I have never understood what point of appeal they have thought we have voted against when it comes to measures. But we've figured that out. These are the measures relating to the very bureaucratic system of joint and several liability in small enterprises. In fact, I ask No Marte Thorkildsen to read the budget proposal, because the action that the Left voted against, and that you have shown in all the debates, is the measure that the government is now parking, where it is said that this becomes too bureaucratic, this becomes impossible to enforce – all the objections that the Left had in the debate when it came. So to put it simply, the Left fully agrees with the Minister of Finance's interpretation of the bureaucratic system relating to solidarity. We fully support the Minister of Finance's assessments and support the budget proposal on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2094	So this is a whole new argument from the Left, because the Left's argument against the measures taken by the government against social dumping has been based on preventing competition on wages. It has been a liberalist argument – a market liberalist argument – and there have been fears that market forces would not be allowed to function freely. And then, on questions from the representatives Snorre Serigstad Valen and Karin Andersen in the throne debate about why you went against – there were several measures against social dumping – the representative Skei Grande answers: because you think that people are not dumber than that they manage to make agreements on their own. But then we see that the reality is that there are a lot of people who are being exploited the most when they come to Norway. Fortunately, the trade union movement is very active in proposing how to meet it, and I hope that the representative Skei Grande will have a more constructive approach than to refer to market-liberalist dogmas that will make the situation more difficult for these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2103	The truth is, what we voted against was a bureaucratic system that didn't work. It is possible that SV has made many proposals on bureaucratic arrangements that do not work, but it does not do things better. I believe in transparency related to wage formation, and giving people the opportunity to make their own employment contracts is much better than the paper mills you make, which are so easy to bypass. I've worked a lot on human trafficking. I've been talking to people in Romania. I've been at shelters in Romania and I've been talking to people who have become victims of trade. Many of them had the papers in order with the Norwegian Labour Inspectorate, but there are other power structures that pressure them. This is international crime. It has to be worked on, but there are many other measures that need to be taken. But red tape for small businesses and everyone who works there doesn't help. More paper doesn't help these people. In fact, it is working on new structures that allow them to be helped in their home countries – working against criminal structures. In fact, having transparency related to wage formation is much more important than these red tapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2110	First, I want to commend the representative Trine Skei Grande for a good post and for the focus on knowledge, which the Center Party shares. Today we have heard a Right Party and a Progress Party that is very loud – I want to say loud in the blue – and it is tax-free that is the big focus. There is little focus on the traditional left-hand values, which also the Center Party in many things is familiar with, among other things. assistance, inclusion, agriculture and culture, to name a few. How does the representative, Trine Skei Grande, see that she will be supported by the things that lie within the traditional centers, in such a dark blue alliance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2117	Both the Left and the Center parties have historically been drawn Right in terms of the important social grips. What I think is nice is that the Center Party can pull out that it's tax havens that are the big problem. There's a lot of tax relief in the Left Program. We take a great deal of action in terms of tax relief at work, and increased environmental taxes. The reason is that we want to facilitate Norwegian business. We want to help all these small businesses in the village that I thought the centre party was busy. The centre party has traditionally been with the Left with regard to the tax grips, which are intended to enable small businesses to manage, so that all entrepreneurs with good ideas will have the opportunity to develop them into jobs. It is very good rural policy in good business start-ups policy. So how does it feel for the Central Party to sit in a government where there is no understanding of this, where wealth taxes are just about the rich – not about jobs – where one sees that tax policy is just about entering the community, and not about how tax policy can be used to create values and jobs, which are much more important to the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2122	I think that the Central Party and the Left may well be able to discuss some types of tax havens, such as. The representative of Lundteg has been present. But then I would like to ask the representative, Trine Skei Grande, does the Left agree with all the proposals for tax laws that the Progress Party and the Right come with? It is not just a matter of corporate taxation. There are also a number of other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2127	We don't just have corporate taxes. We're increasing the bottom line a lot, because we want to charge environmental taxes instead, because we want a shift from the red tax that's about envy and that takes people who work, to actually charge taxes on environmentally hostile behaviour. That's what we think has led to businesses. We think it has led to a better society. We think it has influenced people's actions, so that we've got a better society. So with us are both of these parts. I don't think it's easy to agree with the Progress Party on fiscal policy. It's probably too far in the blue for that. But I think we could have taken a coffee cup with the Right and agreed – so right will have to choose if they want to take a coffee cup, or if they want to float in the blue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2134	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2138	Of course, a financial debate should be about the budget, but it must also be about the long lines. For the government, it is important to improve and renew welfare services, so that they are also ensured for future generations. Through major and important reforms, the government has taken such action. The health system is now facing challenges we didn't have a decade ago. We get more with diabetes, COLS, muscle and skeletal disorders. More is affected by cancer. We can, and we will, help more people who experience mental illness, and we will help more people out of drug addiction. The growing generation in the United States is said to be the first generation that has a shorter life span than its parents. The reason for this is, among other things: Overweight and a more inactive population, a trend we also see in Norway. Overweight poses, like some of the other diseases I mentioned, challenges that cannot only be solved by the healthcare system alone. Today, I had the pleasure of opening an important international meeting here in Oslo, where, together with the World Health Organization, we focus on chronic non-infectious diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. This is a particular challenge we have in Europe and the rich part of the world, but we also see that such a development is at full speed into developing countries. Our health challenges are different from those generations before we faced them. If we are to meet the health challenges of the future, we must provide healthcare so that we are able to solve them. This is the government's work on the Cooperation Reform is about. The government will improve, strengthen and renew the health system. We will build a sustainable health system that enables us to apply new technologies and methods, while at the same time caring for the large patient groups, such as chroniclers and patients in mental health protection and drug abuse. As part of this work, the government has submitted in the autumn proposals for a new law on municipal health and care services and a new public health law, which focuses on the principle of health in everything we do, and we have consulted on the basis of a new national health and care plan. With these documents, we are putting into practice the cooperation reform – yes, we are going from word to action. Through these, we focus more on prevention, overall and coherent services and, in particular, on better treatment for the major disease groups where patients live. As we've done through the Mental Health Excursion Plan, we're now also going to solve more problems near the patient. Yesterday I visited Mo in Rana. Hospitals and neighbouring municipalities cooperate closely on a decentralised health service. In several municipalities, similar work is done, and the interaction reform is met with enthusiasm and willingness to think again. This promises good for the health care of the future and for our efforts to improve, strengthen and renew healthcare. We treat more and more people, and more people get good treatment in our hospitals. We survive diseases we died of before. It is important for the government to further increase the quality of hospitals. We want to improve patient safety. I have put forward a number of measures to strengthen this work this autumn. It's an important goal for the government to bring down the waiting times. That the waiting times increase and the deadlines for treatment are broken is not acceptable, and I am therefore following this area closely. I have clarified the hospital's obligation to inform and ensure that patients receive treatment before any delay occurs. Government proposal for 2011 on 970 million. kr more to hospitals provides room for an increased patient treatment of about 1.4 pst. In several hospitals, we see a positive trend in the form of a reduced deadline break and a reduction in waiting time. At the same time, it is important to remember that everyone who needs immediate help gets this, which represents approximately. 70 pst. by patients in Norwegian hospitals. There has been a debate here today on waiting times, and the Right has addressed – not uncommonly – private solutions. It has also been claimed that there has been an explosion in the number of private health insurances. As far as I've been able to clean up, it's 8 pst. by Norwegian workers having private health insurance. In Denmark, there are about one third of the employees. This has exploded with the bourgeois government. I believe that this is a development that we do not want in Norway. People should be sure that we have the capacity in our public health services to offer a decent offer. As part of the reconciliation of government parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left on the Health Plan 2015, a provision has been made for a worthy care of the elderly. The regulation helps to ensure the basis for a good service provision for the elderly. It strengthens the regulatory framework and clarifies the rights of the elderly. The further development of care for the elderly needs to focus on the content of the service — in addition to capacity. Older people are as different as all of us, with different needs and desires. Good care for the elderly is based on a basis of values that ensure the integrity and dignity of individuals. The aim of care for the elderly is to ensure the individual’s safety and the possibility of a meaningful life. We have secured full child care, now we take an important step to strengthen care for the elderly. We will continue the development of an elderly care system that ensures an equivalent level of provision for all, irrespective of the economic and social background. The most important thing is that older people feel confident that they can get the help they need when they need it. We do this best through a strong public care service. We're increasing the grants to nursing homes and nursing homes, and we're standing by the expansion of 12,000 new places, and 12,000 new annual works, as we've established in the past. The largest growth in the number of older people will be in the age group between 67 and 80 in the next few years. Nor should we forget that a worthy care for the elderly is also about an offer for those who want to live, live, at home. Here, too, we can prevent more by getting in early. In home services, home care, there is an important job every day and an important effort that gets too little focus. We need more knowledge about the health and care services in municipalities and about the health and care services of the elderly. From 2009 onwards, all counties have both teaching homes and teaching homes. They shall contribute to the strengthening of the competence and quality of all municipalities in each State. In next year's budget, we are continuing a commitment to care research. We have seen pictures of the elderly this autumn who have not received the care services they should have, which have made an impression. We've heard older people say they don't feel valued. This is precisely why we are taking several steps to strengthen the elderly. I also think this is about something more than just the care of the elderly. Our respect for the elderly must be as clear as our enthusiasm for our young people. Living longer and living more good years is an expression of the success of our society. Our willingness to expand care provision for the elderly also needs to be reflected in how we all meet and involve the elderly in everyday life. I would like to welcome a debate that addresses the views of the elderly. We need older people's participation in society, and we need to facilitate such participation. At the Sveio care centre a sensory garden is built in the nursing home, in the municipality of Sørum they have a large and beautiful outdoor area with exciting and untraditional solutions, art decoration and therapy pool. At Masfjorden Hospital they gather at star hours, and in Trondheim there are established Life Joys for the Elder Hospital. We also need to look at those who succeed, and see that it is possible. Many municipalities spend a lot of time on care services and have very good results. I want to know more about the success recipe of these municipalities. That is why I take the initiative in an investigation mission to investigate how other municipalities can learn from the good examples. There are many challenges in the care of the elderly, but we also have to raise the good stories and the many thousands of employees who make an amazing effort every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2183	In 1997, we received this quality regulation in the care service, which outlines in 16 specific points how to provide good services. This regulation has been broken every day for 13 years in Kommune-Norway. We have seen health workers who have gone home crying from work, because they are unable to comply with the quality regulation, and we see media essays about many unworthy conditions. So now we've got this dignity guarantee in eight points. There's nothing new here, as far as I can see, and it's actually central points that are left out in relation to the quality regulation. Can the Council of State look the elderly in the eye and say that there will now be an end to the unworthiness of the care of the elderly? Can she also tell the employees that the quality regulation and the guarantee of dignity must be followed below, even if the municipality fund is empty?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2192	It is a clear goal for this government to invest heavily in care for the elderly, as I also said in my article. That's why we're now spending billions building up old age care. That's why we need to build more nursing homes and nursing homes, and that's why we need more employees into this care. The regulation on which the representative spoke was an internal control regulation. The guarantee of dignity has a completely different device. It is a regulation, but it will also be incorporated into the new law that will enter into force from 1 January 2012. At that time, the obligation for municipalities to provide proper care will be stated, while the individual’s right to care is also expressed in the Patient Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2199	The Council of State refers to the kindergarten effort, that one has now reached full kindergarten coverage, and that it is now the turn of the elderly. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. That's why it really surprises us that the government is not willing to use the same powerful means to get full medical coverage, which they used to get full child-care coverage. In the 1990s – the last time we had a big investment in the elderly – there were 6 000 lucky day care places built in the municipalities, in cooperation with private individuals. This government is putting an end to that kind of cooperation. The right fully agrees that one should increase the grant in order to build more hospitals. In addition, we want an interest-free loan scheme at the top, but it must also be possible for municipalities to use the success recipe, both from kindergarten and from the 1990s, Public Private Cooperation, to give the old people a place that stands and waits when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2208	There is a different facility at the nursery school and the way it was implemented, than is now the system of grants to nursing homes and nursing homes. At the same time, there are many, especially non-profit organisations — which have been a lot of focus here today — who are doing very good care for the elderly. We have to agree on that. There are many examples of this in Oslo. What has been a wish is that we should be able to use the housing laws of this extension scheme, including in connection with the grants. There's something we're working on, and we're not finally on it yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2215	The Christian People's Party is busy pursuing the best possible and most affordable alcohol policy. We have had the support of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Health and the police. Our former Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice wrote a chronicle in VG on 4 June last year, which I found on the ministry's website. I thought I would use my post to quote a little bit from there. The chronicle is called an hour less. Citation: ‘The last hour of alcohol-serving at night has a high human and social cost. Many are injured or subjected to violence. Therefore, the government proposes to reduce the turnout time by one hour. [[...]] International research shows a link between tipping times and alcohol-related harm, not least violence. When the seasons increase, more violence is given to you and vice versa." Yesterday, I must say, there was a rather disappointing round in the question hour. After that round, I would like to ask the Minister of Health: is it the Minister of Justice, the former Minister of Health, international research or the current Minister of Health who is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2229	What is quite clear is that very many violent injuries occur in connection with alcohol and alcohol consumption — even in the affected state. There's no doubt about it. We don't need any more research on that. We know that. So we've had this case out at the hearing, and many have probably also nuanced the picture, whether it's the last hour between hours. 02 a.m. and a.m. 03 which is the big problem, or whether it's the gift itself. I'm going to say, especially after seeing Focus, which was the starting point for the question in yesterday's Questionnaire, that it's quite obvious that especially in Oslo – it may well be that there are several places – there's a raw overlap in some of the resorts. That's what's serious. It's not sure it's that hour away. From 02 to 02 hours 03. But we'll get back to that, because while we've been dealing with this case, SIRUS has taken up a research project on their own, where they're going to go through 30 Norwegian cities and research this very thing with opening hours. We believe in the government that it is right to wait until it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2236	We have repeatedly heard in this Chamber and through the media how many billions this government has used since it joined in 2005. It's a cheap rhetoric. But we have had a sky-high wage and price growth, and not least we have got more residents in the country. I mention that only in 2008 60,000 more people came to the country – new residents. Then it is that in the same period, since 2006, health cows have increased by 70,000 people. Privates are at the same time free of charge. I'm asking, what's wrong with using private? Does the Council of State think that it is inclusive policies that only those with a good economy can buy services, while those with lower and medium incomes must be in a hopeless queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2243	It is not a mistake to use private. We use it every day as a supplement to public health. But with all due respect — with our geography and the population density in Norway, we are totally dependent on the fact that a strong public health system is the basis of our healthcare system. But as I said, we use private in many areas, and we also depend on many of these players on the market. Then there is also one thing that I fully agree with: I am not satisfied that the waiting times go wrong. That's why we've also focused so much on this. That is why I work so hard to get this down, first to remove deadlines, which are not acceptable, and then to remove the waiting times. It should be such that you should not stand for so long and wait when you need treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2250	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2254	The Red-Greens are constantly claiming that the Advance Party spends money on tax relief. Why does this rhetoric survive an entire press corps? How can we be accused of spending money on tax reliefs, when tax reliefs are actually failing to collect the money? It is not possible to spend money on tax relief. It is not that tax money is the state's money, and that the state may return mild gifts to the people through tax relief. The income of the State is a deduction from the income of people's salaries and capital. There's money that the government claims it needs to finance our well-being. The goodwill of people to pay taxes applies as long as taxpayers feel that the state is able to promise the collective well-being of society. The burden of proof lies with the State. The Progress Party proposes tax reductions for 19.4 billion. kr. This represents approximately 2 pst. of the estimated taxes and charges that the country will levy in 2011. Adjusted for dynamic effects, the country’s sample surface area is reduced by an estimated 6.3 billion. kr. We are reducing the cost of the state budget by approx. 7 B.C.E. kr. It is at the lower edge of 1 pst. of the total expenditure of the country for 2011. The Progress Party finances the additional consumption of approx. 6 B.C.E. kr by reducing the transfers to the oil fund by the corresponding amounts. We're reducing the government's estimated transfer from 153 billion. NOK 147 billion. kr. The difference is 1,7 per million of the oil fund. To put it another way, we're reducing the state's profit by 5 per million. It is these economic sizes that have caused concern to the Prime Minister, for this is financial irresponsibility, he claims. This will create pressure in the economy, interest rates will change, the kronor price will go 'bananas', jobs will be uncompetitive, and the next generations will not receive a pension. Usually such wise and deep economic analyses from the Prime Minister tend to get full backing from a group of journalists. But this year it has actually been a little bit different. The generally unanimous condemnation of the Financial Policy of the Progress Party has not been equally prominent. The exception is, as the representative Hareide had in the past, the Nettavisen's Gunnar Stavrum, as the only one, who, eager to be the first to comment on our alternative state budget, stumbled both in numbers and rhetoric. Maybe the Progress Party has a point anyway, I think some in the media are starting to think. Perhaps it would be wise to reduce taxes and charges? Maybe Norway needs a real boost for the infrastructure? Maybe the defense isn't in the position you should expect? Perhaps the growth in the number of employees in the public administration is unhealthy for the Norwegian economy? Perhaps the pace of immigration is without sustainability? Is it possible that trade and not ever more aid are getting people out of poverty? Perhaps the time has come for a properly earmarked effort in the care of the elderly? I'm just asking. Maybe that's the way it is. The Progress Party introduces the concept of ‘dynamic fiscal policy’ in its alternative draft budget. We use SSB's estimates for this. We don't use dynamic tax rates instead of the ordinary figures, as the head of the finance committee has been misquoted, but as a supplement for better information. Everyone agrees that increasing wages leads to increased consumption. Reduced tax will work exactly the same way. People get to keep more of their own income, and then each one will use it differently on his own welfare. So, it's not just public welfare that's well-being, but also well-being. Some of the money will lead to the purchase of services and goods, which in turn will generate revenue in the form of taxes and taxes. And although the Prime Minister likes to call such calculations voodoo economy, I can remind him of what all the social democrats' favorite economist, John Maynard Keynes, once wrote: "Nor should the argument be strict that payment may be as high as to define its object, and that, giving success time to gather the fruits, a reduction of payment will run a better chance than an increase of balancing the budget." I don't translate. I guess most people in the room know English. The government’s derision of tax relief as a fiscal instrument means that it abandons an essential tool in fiscal policy. Not least, such a tool would be useful in these times, when the government is doing the best it can to talk out of both mouths to mislead people about the level of disability. What the government should focus on, is not reducing the disability benefit for each individual, but getting more out of disability pension and over into work. The tax policy of the Progress Party is part of such a process. The Progress Party proposes to increase the minimum deduction from 75 to 150 kroner to 90 000 kroner. By increasing the minimum deduction, we make it more attractive to work and relatively less attractive to live on public transfers. There is a wise policy, which will in the long run get more people involved, to use a worn political cliché. What really is voodoo economy is to be found in the Prime Minister's chronicle in DN, Today's Business, October 23, where the Prime Minister admits that in Norway there are many people in working age who are on social security, saying that this is due to a well-developed social security system. In other countries, these people would have been cared for by the family, he claims. In other words, in Norway: ‘less housewives depending on their spouse than on many other countries, but more on different social security schemes.’ [[...]] From this, the Prime Minister concludes in the same chronicle that it is not important whether a person is depended on by the family or by the taxpayers — a macroeconomic sensational claim. The Prime Minister goes on to say: ‘Our choice in Norway to have a comprehensive social security system that helps to support people who are unable to work is a quality of the Norwegian welfare society.’ Yes, that is quite correct, but there is no political disagreement about that either. However, such social security systems are not unique to Norway. Social security schemes are also available in other European countries for those who are unable to work. There are also clear medical criteria in other countries for receiving disability benefits, rehabilitation benefits and health benefits. The challenge, however, is that in Norway there are relatively infinitely many more who claim to meet the criteria set, and despite being healthier, living longer, having more leisure time, shorter working days, longer holidays, better leave arrangements and better organized jobs than ever before — all this while in general working life has become less physically burdensome. If this relationship isn't voodoo, it's at least very mysterious. And even though the Prime Minister is brilliantly satisfied with the state of things, and tries to imagine to the Norwegian people that everything is under control, the International Monetary Fund – IMF – says in its latest report: « it will be critical to make adjustments to the rules governing other benefit schemes, notably disability pensions. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] further efficacys are necessary to reduce the persistently high enrollment rates for sick leave and disability benefits.» The Progress Party fully agrees with this, and our tax regime with a focus on increased minimum deductions is just a step in line with the IMF's recommendations. In our alternative state budget, we choose to remove the inheritance fee. We believe, in principle, that it is wrong that the state should be co-heir in all the inheritance settlements in this country. In practice, we have seen that the inheritance tax has led to the fact that in some cases the next generation has not been able to afford to continue the business of the family business. Those who create values and jobs should not get into such a situation. The foreground part reduces the percentage of the property tax from 1,1 pst. to 0.9 pst. It is our ambition to remove the property tax in four years' time in the government offices. The tax on wealth is an unfair double taxation. The values are already taxed by taxes on income or capital, and therefore the property tax is a penalty for investment, saving and accuracy. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have a fundamentally different view of the State. While the Workers' Party believes it is the capitalists who must be able to justify why they should be allowed to keep their own money, we believe that the burden of proof of the withdrawal of people's income must always lie with the state. The values belong to those who created them, and it is the state that must constantly be on the land, not the tax collectors. It's an honest position to want people and businesses to tax more, but then you get to say it right out, and you get to charge the tax when people make the money, not charge them because people don't spend it up, year after year. The government wants to create incentives for old-age pensioners to return to work after reaching retirement age. It's positive. But to get this done, the government is proposing to increase the tax on every third retirement pensioner. The Progress Party will oppose this. A retirement pension is an acquired right, and if you are the most liable person to pay social security contributions through a long professional life, it is unreasonable to trample pension payments by increasing the tax. The size of the pension is, among other things, a result of education and professional career. In other words, retirement is not a good thing that pensioners are supposed to distribute. The Progress Party wants all pensioners to retain more of their pension, not just a few selected ones. To ensure this, we will go against the government's unsocial increase in the social security fee to 4.7 pst. We therefore retain the social security fee of 3 pst. In addition, we propose that the new pension deduction be stepped down more slowly. We also propose to remove the withholding tax, which the government has introduced for Norwegian pensioners living abroad. The source tax is an unreasonable tax on public welfare services those pensioners have neither requested nor used. Finally, I would like to stress that tax relief has a intrinsic value. The fact that most people retain more of their own income makes it possible to prioritize their own well-being, and overall well-being in society will increase. I am therefore strongly critical of the Minister of Finance's statement earlier today that tax relief leads to reduced welfare. Tax relief gives people more money in the wallet, and tax relief and well-being can be completely different for different people. Tax breaks can be going to the pub and getting a beer, it could be taking a trip to the South, it could be giving inheritance to its children. Tax relief and people spending money are well-being and a very resource for society. People get to keep more of their own income and can do with this money as they like – it's not the government, the big business or anyone else who wants to decide what is well-being for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2322	The representative Tybring-Gjedde is concerned with tax havens, and that's what he's talking about from both mouths all the time, so I won't ask him about that. But I'll ask him about another matter. The Progress Party reduces the whole amount of regional development to the counties. As I know the use of these funds from my home country, 90 pst is used. for innovation and development in small and medium-sized enterprises. Technology companies, media companies, farms and other enterprises need financial support and practical guidance to develop a robust business. These enterprises are very important in terms of value creation and housing in a district district. How can the representative Tybring-Gjedde defend such a cut in an important regional instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2329	So the Progress Party does not believe that Innovation Norway is an extended arm of government's district policy. We believe that Innovation Norway should potentially raise capital for companies with the best idea, regardless of where it is located. If the government wants to spend money on district policy, it's called district policy instead of hiding it through funds to Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway has seven — I think — sponsors, seven departments, all of which have different motives. You have your own women's bet. You have your own district work, and all the counties have their own subordinate bodies. It is very impeccable how to report within Innovation Norway, and we believe that no matter where the idea is, whether it should be in Oslo, in Bergen, in Trondheim or in Kristiansand, the best idea should be given the capital to create jobs – no matter where in the country it is. That's why we're targeting that kind of action. Not least, all the waste from Innovation Norway funds that are also found in the districts. We have a bunch of examples of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2336	When we hear Tybring-Gjeddes posts, I'll say, that's how a real liberal speaks. He must at least feel that he – as the only – lives up to what is the intention of the Advance Party, as they at least make it. What he says is quite obvious to all of us, that what he exposes, will undermine the economic, social security of Norwegian society. That's what he's standing here saying. What is the big paradox in the paper is that there is no humility in this doctrine of economic policy in relation to what is happening in all other countries. Tax relief and large excesses, no effort by the state, have led to difficulties for countries by country and by economy. Would it not have been possible for Tybring-Gjedde's representative to show a little more humility in a situation where Europe is increasingly facing difficulties, as opposed to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2345	Thank you for the question from the representative Kolberg, who might want to read a little bit about the economy. If you go back and look at what caused the financial crisis, it's not tax relief, it's over-consumption. The only country among these so-called PIGS countries that had huge tax concessions – I actually kept this post six months ago, but then maybe Kolberg was not there – is Ireland. All the other countries that are now struggling among the PIGS countries had increased public consumption, not reduced taxes. All the countries were run by social democrats. So it's public consumption, especially in the case of pensions, and huge commitments fought through by trade unions in the same countries, which made the economy go bad. That was one of the main reasons. When Kolberg mentions tax relief, one should be aware of where tax relief actually took place before making a general charge, as the Prime Minister has also done on TV and in other debates. It's directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2352	As the representative of Kolberg just came up with, there's something liberating about hearing Tybring-Gjedde talk, because we always get clean words for money. On that basis – when you hear Tybring-Gjedde – it is important to understand why the Progress Party is so drastic in the case of social benefits for some of the most vulnerable groups. Because I don't think – and no one else here, I think – that about a quarter of the lonely caregivers will marry almost in happiness if the Progress Party had come to power on 1 January 2011. My question, however, is about business. I am very tired of hearing the black paint of the business that is going on, and that it is going to be so bad to do business in Norway. What is the explanation that we're actually doing very well on the international rankings that look at the business situation in Norway? We're going to be third of the European countries. We've climbed four places on one of the most recognised ranking lists, and not enough with it, so we're combining it with the basis of civilization: a fairly high tax level that ensures that we're also first on the list of the best countries to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2363	You should simply be fairly thick in the hat – excuse me, President, it is probably not a parliamentary expression – if you are unable to operate Norway relatively well. We have huge revenues from oil and gas, which all countries envy us. If you are unable to operate Norway relatively well on that basis, you are doing a relatively poor job. We have a large public sector, and we can employ many in the public sector, but because you have 25 pst. that live on public transfers, i.e. that are not part of the world of work, well, there are enormous challenges. And it goes in that direction: there are increasing numbers of disabled people and more and more people living on different social security schemes. What businesses are asking for is to have the opportunity to create their own values and jobs. It is now that more and more enterprises are owned by the public, because there are not enough capitalists who are either willing to or able to invest in enterprises. The very largest enterprises in Norway today are owned by the public, and it goes in the direction that more and more are, because the state is the great capitalist. The state should distribute this money, so that private capitalists can create jobs, so that the profit motive comes back to Norwegian business, and so that it is not the state that sits on all the capital and all the interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2372	In its alternative budget, the Progress Party proposes an integration policy that has both reduced legal protection and put a full stop to the dialogue between immigrants and authorities. Then they actually cut half of the child protection aid for single minor asylum seekers. Human services on reception are being reduced, and the teaching of asylum seekers and their children is halved. I wonder then: does the Progress Party see integration itself as an important measure? And do they mean that these cut leads to a more positive integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2377	I could talk about this for 1 hour, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2382	The representative now has approx. 57 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2386	Okay. Thank you for the question! The Progress Party believes that integration is important. In order to be integrated into the Norwegian community, there must be some values at the bottom. These values are equality, equivalency, freedom of expression, freedom of religion, secular rules of law – what are common values for Norwegian society. It's important. Integration is extremely important. Integration is primarily the responsibility of individual immigrants. You travel from one country to another, either as a refugee or as a volunteer. When you get to Norway, I'd think there's something about this society that's better than the country you left. If you take all cultures of origin – and cultures – to Norway, it will not work. Then I wonder why you came here in the first place. When we want to reduce immigration, it's for the sake of being integrated through time, just like when 800,000 Northmen moved to America. Then it was time that they finally became Americans. If you mess with immigrants so they don't have the chance to integrate, you don't get the integration to work either. This is my short answer in 57 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2395	The cord shift is over. In a few minutes, the scheduled time for the morning meeting will be tomorrow. The President will propose that the Stortinget now suspend its negotiations and that we set the evening meeting at noon. 6:00 p.m. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President makes it clear – at least as the President has been told – that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the representative Gunnar Gundersen have changed their place on the list of speakers. That means Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is the first speaker at the evening meeting – and then Gunnar Gundersen. - The meeting's been cancelled. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 15.55. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2413	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 1 to 4 on Agenda No 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2416	Once again, the United Nations has designated Norway as one of the world's best countries to live in, but we know better than anyone else that there is still a shortage, and there are still many unsolved tasks in our country. We're going to catch up with them. But the fact that year after year we're going all the way to the top of this league is a sign that at least we're doing something right in the way we organize our society. Some believe that the good results Norway achieves are due to coincidences — that we have found oil and gas on the base, and that the results are almost self-evident. That's wrong. Like Norway, many countries have had large revenues from natural resources, but far from all of them have succeeded in transforming this into a society that is good to live in. It is quite right that the petroleum resources have given us opportunities other countries do not have, but it is essential that we have managed the possibilities well, that we have made some basic right choices: We chose to let the income from the natural resources be the property of the community. We have not privatized them and have not allowed a small minority to have the ownership of the oil and gas bodies. That's what other countries have done, and that's what they've lost. And equally important: we have managed the large revenue from oil and gas in a sound and long-term way, so that we have managed to maintain strong competitive, profitable businesses in the private sector. Being a good country to live in is a lot about how we organise our society – a society with small differences, comprehensive public welfare systems, high levels of professional participation and coordinated wage formation. This has given us resilient and profitable businesses, and it has ensured the well-being of the inhabitants of our country. That's what we call the Norwegian model of society. This model is not least about the fact that we have ensured low unemployment. In a number of European countries, unemployment rates are now well above 10pst. Even our neighbor Sweden is close to this level. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We have managed to steer Norway safely through the financial crisis. We are close to what Odvar Nordli called 'an island of full employment in a sea of unemployment'. Not only in the public sector, but also in private enterprises, we currently have much higher employment, much more jobs than when we took over government responsibility in 2005. Then someone has started attacking unemployment statistics instead of attacking unemployment. Leading politicians from the right have used the autumn to doubt Norwegian unemployment rates. There's no reason. The Norwegian unemployment rates follow international guidelines. They are included in international surveys with comparable unemployment rates. So there is no customs duty on unemployment figures in Norway. The spokespersons of the right-wing parties indicate that some Nordics are out of work and believe that this conceals unemployment. The truth is, we in Norway have very low leave, no matter how we measure it. If we had hidden unemployment by having many in social security, we would be at work, and we would have low employment. The employment rate measures the proportion of the pre-employment population actually at work. Norway has one of the highest employment rates in the entire Western world. Over 76 pst. of the population aged 15 to 64 in this country are in employment. In Sweden, which is also among the top countries, it is 72 pst. In the United States it is 67 pst. and in the EU it is 66 pst. So we are about 10 percentage points higher in Norway in terms of the proportion of the population at work than the EU average. We simply have a larger proportion of the population in jobs than most other countries in the world. This is not least due to the participation of many women and older people in the labour market. At the same time, in Norway, we have many people of working age who receive social security. The main reason for this is that we have a well-developed social security system in Norway – not that we hide unemployment by putting workers on social security. Many of those who receive social security in this country would have been cared for in other countries by spouses, parents or other close relatives. In Norway, therefore, we are in a situation where we have both more in work and more in social security than in many other countries, because less is provided by the family. This is not to hide unemployment. That we in Norway have chosen to have a comprehensive social security system that helps support people who are unable to work, I believe is an important quality in the Norwegian welfare community. We must also bear in mind that some more people receive social security benefits here than in other countries. I therefore disagree with those who suggest that a large proportion of those who receive different social security benefits do not really have a right to it. Those who receive social security shall do so with their heads raised. It's been a long time since we stopped holding hands to get our rights. At the same time, it is best for individuals and for society that all those who are able to do so work rather than receive passive benefits. Therefore, this government believes in the line of work: That is why we are working with the social partners to reduce sick leave. That is why, from the New Year, we are implementing a pension reform that helps to make work pay. This is why we are working on measures such as increased accessibility, universal design and more and better Norwegian training for immigrants. It's all about following up the line of work. Unemployment is the waste of resources. It weakens our ability to create, and it weakens our ability to share. Therefore, the government will be at the forefront of the fight for high employment and against unemployment. The government conducts a community policy, for value creation and for justice. The proposal for the 2011 State Budget is a new important step. It is responsible and predictable for business, and we are building welfare further, with more money for municipalities, hospitals, road and rail and several other important areas. It's no secret that the situation so narrower and more difficult when we started the budgetary work in ours. Our starting point was that we should keep money in good times in order to be able to use more when the times are worse. That is why we raised a budget for 2011 with unchanged use of oil money and a penetrating effect. This means that we are now approaching the 4-percentile line – the expected return of the pension fund. Although we spent a lot of money in 2009 and 2010, the deviation from the 4-percentage line was also less in those years than the deviation was under the previous government, when it spent a lot of money. Despite the fact that we are now tightening up in relation to the total economy, new efforts in the budget are still possible. This is due, inter alia, to: that we now see the results of government policies in key areas: We've had a very strong focus on inclusive working life. The cost of health pay is now falling – several billion dollars saved. We have focused on reducing the arrival of unjustified asylum seekers. Now the cost goes down by 2.7 billion. kr in relation to previous estimate. We have kept track of the Norwegian economy, unemployment is low, and we have economic growth. Now the tax revenue is rising sharply. This has a double effect. Low unemployment and increased growth, lower sick leave and fewer unjustified asylum applications are themselves important. In addition, it helps to create room for new initiatives in other key areas. In 2005, the government’s aim was that all children who need it should have children’s playgrounds. After four years, we reached that goal. More than 30 years of effort have produced results. Now the government has set itself a new big goal. By 2015, all older people who need it shall have a happy day's care. They shall be offered sick leave, nursing home or home care. Tens of thousands of people in the care sector do an amazing job every day. The vast majority are women, who comfort and carry, wash and stand, trade food and provide medicine, care and care. But in the future we will need even more in the care sector, more competence and better quality. We're going to give several care providers, and we're going to give a better offer to those who get it. In the fall we go several important steps to get it done. We have sent a new law on municipal health and care services to the hearing. Here we gather the responsibilities of the municipalities, which today are scattered on several laws, and there is one place to complain to. We adopt a guarantee of dignity, a new regulation on a worthy care for the elderly. It has its background from the earlier conciliation, where the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left joined forces to ensure better care for the elderly. This guarantee ensures the proper living conditions of the elderly and a varied diet. Those receiving care should be able to have the most normal life possible, with normal daily rhythm, the opportunity to come out and have someone to talk to. They shall be properly followed up by doctors and health professionals, and shall be given exclusive status to those who so wish. For many of us, these are of course, but unfortunately not for everyone. Then we're going to do something about it. We have announced an increase in the earmarked grant for the development of nursing homes and nursing homes. It's increasing by 40 pst. We have removed restrictions that have caused some municipalities to have been refused. Last week we proposed to grant an additional billion in free money to the municipalities, such as the municipalities. can be used to develop the care of the elderly. In the budget, we propose to allocate money for the development of new health homes and lucky day care places in 2011. In the position of the Financial Committee, care for the elderly and the role of volunteering have been further strengthened in several areas. These are adjustments I am pleased with, and that make the offer to the elderly even better and strengthen the volunteer's efforts in the care and care provision in our country. In the election campaign in 2005, I stated that I would not reduce the level of taxation until it is reflected in the care of the elderly. I'd like to repeat that. And there's a lot left before it shines out of care for both younger and older people here in the country. We remember that every day. For us, this is more important than cutting taxes. It's still one of the most important distinctions between the right hand parties and the government. For tax cuts, welfare cuts mean. In the budget, the government proposes once again to spend the large amount of money on the major tasks: for the care of schools and higher education hospitals for the protection of children on the road and path to the environment This is how new stones are put on the construction site for good care and well-being. This is how the Norwegian model is further expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2530	Let me first say that I am very happy that the Prime Minister chose to spend time talking about the care of the elderly, because there are many thousands of people with a care needs out in this country who feel cheated, they feel betrayed, they feel neglected by the government. And I see that, because they've heard the country's national politicians sit in a campaign after election fighting and promise that care for the elderly will be better. The problem is that even with the measures the Prime Minister has now spoken about, those who have a need for care today do not have any guarantee that their needs will be met – even with what the Prime Minister has just said. It's about the municipalities doing the job. My question is, isn't it soon time to change the whole system, so that the money follows the older one, instead of the older ones becoming throwing balls between the municipalities and the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2537	Firstly, it is good that we now have increased attention to care and care for the elderly, because this means that we are going to mobilise more to improve the situation in the care of the elderly and in the care and care of other groups as well. Secondly, it is also important in this debate that we find the right balance between pointing to shortcomings and weaknesses, of which there is a lot, and at the same time that there are actually a lot of good things to do, that there are tens of thousands of people in the care of the elderly who every day do a great job, and that, fortunately, the majority of the elderly in Norway get the care they need. But then it's missing, and we're going to do something about it. We've increased the earmarked grants by 40 pst. We have increased the free income by many billions after we took over, and by an additional billion now a week ago. In addition, we have set out key requirements for what older people should be entitled to. It's the same way we run the school: little earmarked funds, but central requirements. We do that in a lot of ways. We provide a guarantee of dignity, make demands, and then the municipalities have to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2546	I fully agree that there are many people in care and care who do a great job, but that is also true of those who work in the private sector, who want to offer an alternative to poor municipal solutions and poor public solutions. They don't feel to be heard or seen by the red-green government, because they hear that they're more occupied with capital than doing hot care. I tried to challenge Helga Pedersen earlier today. When a private clinic such as the Ringvoll Clinic sits with free capacity and can bring in patients for surgery tomorrow, but does not get a chance because of the public system, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister, because he stood on the pulpit here in Stortinget on Wednesday and said he was very too private. But these private people need stable, predictable framework conditions. Today, it is only patients who have health insurance, or who can afford to pay for it themselves, who have the opportunity to use this fantastic offer. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2553	The President will remind you that speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2556	I hear and see the privates. In fact, over and over again I stress that private individuals make important contributions to welfare services in Norway. It was actually the Workers' Party that started the introduction of free hospital choice. It's a system where you can choose between getting treatment at a private hospital or a public hospital. We introduced it within the regions, and then it was extended to the whole country in 2001. It was the Harlem Brundtland government that started work on free hospital choice in the 1990s. The Ringvoll Clinic has an agreement, and patients are treated for public account. I was prime minister when we introduced the fast-track reform, and it is based on private doctors. You have to stop creating the impression that we don't see the importance of the private doing an important job. We are for private contributions, we donate money to it, and we have institutions, such as: The Ringvoll Clinic, which has an agreement, and which treats patients. What we are against is that the market should manage care in this country. It creates differences. It creates a poor management of our common resources, and we're going to say no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2570	I would like to remind you that at least five proposals on free hospital choice were put down during the years before this, before the Workers' Party found out that good, old-fashioned right-wing policy was a good idea. I have many more proposals that the government can borrow if it wants to improve policy and give more freedom of choice. But I want to deal with another theme. I believe in the government when it says it will bet on the unemployed. But, unfortunately, when we saw the budget this year, we saw that it is not implemented. We have been shown that for a number of groups it is not worth going out to work. So with the sum of the benefits, there's more money in benefits than going to work. VG has also been documented with new calculations, among others. by the Ministry of Finance. One of the things the government didn't do was raise the minimum deduction enough. That is what we have proposed in this budget, because it will mean that people with low wages will receive the bulk of the tax relief, and therefore the line of work will be strengthened. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2579	First of all, with free choice. It was the Workers' Party that started with the introduction of free hospital choice in health regions. Then it's expanded later. We started it in the 1990s. It was the Labour Party in Oslo that first introduced free home elections, and it was the Stoltenberg I government – an excellent government – that introduced the free choice of firmers based on private doctors. So the right-hand side now has to stop constructing enemies they don't have. They're creating a picture of us that's just completely wrong. We have also provided the most important thing, namely that by investing in private kindergartens, families with children have had a real choice in choosing kindergartens. Because it will not be real freedom of choice if there is not enough offer, whether it is public or private. It is essential that the market does not prevail. In the case of the line of work, the Working Party is the Working Party for the line of work. Actually, we've always been for it, and we're still for it. We have made it possible for us to have higher employment, more people in work now than when the Right was in government, more employees in the private sector and lower unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2588	We can take the history debate one day, but I still want to focus on the young people who meet, want to get out of work, but don't get it done, and who are told that disability is their way. It's actually part of them. 40 pst. Of those who are illiterate, there are today considerable problems with reading and writing. In fact, it is one of the major basic problems — that young adults, but also older adults, cannot read and write so well that they are able to hang out when working life changes. I've previously written to the government, by two former state councils, and asked that we introduce a national paperwork for reading and writing among adults. This will help reduce exclusion from the labour market. The working line is getting stronger. Instead of sending people into a morbidity process, we help them master their lives and stand on their own feet. Why is the government opposed to launching a real national effort related to adult reading and writing problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2595	I think it is important that we discuss how we can help to reduce the number of young people who are untrained. It is important that more young people do not live their whole lives in dissatisfaction when many of them really have the opportunity to get to work. These include: about the things that Solberg's representative is talking about, like education. All that we do to reduce high school drop-outs is basically also measures that will prevent later dissatisfaction among young people. We have increased the appropriations quite sharply in terms of training in the workplace, for example. in Norwegian and in data. So we're already doing that and we've increased it strongly. So we know that drug treatment and psychiatry, including two areas where we have increased efforts, are important to reduce the early disability of young people. But then there is one important thing: many young people are in a situation where there is no alternative. Some have been born illiterate; others have been delayed, for example. for serious car accidents. Of course, they must be entitled to disability benefits. It shall be good, it shall not be cut, and they shall receive it without being ashamed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2606	Then it fits to continue with disability. I noticed that the Prime Minister didn't talk about it in his post, but he talked a lot about it yesterday – at LO. I have noticed that there are some double communications in the embassy. The Prime Minister has an example that he likes very well: he compares a lift with a pay supplement or an increase in pension, and then he says, if you take the lift to the tenth floor, but had planned to take him to the twelfth, have you gone up or down? I think it's a pretty irrelevant example, because the rest of the population takes the elevator to the twentieth floor, and in the new model we can take a staircase up to the top, if we like. Failures can't even take the stairs. In the class struggle today, the Prime Minister states: ‘There shall be no reduction in the old-age pension, on the contrary, if it is to increase in the years to come.’ Based on these quotes, I think most people feel that the Prime Minister cancels the disability pension as a savings project. Can the Prime Minister now refuse to save money on the underprivileged?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2618	The answer to that question is yes. We do not add up to any change in the disability pension, which means that we reduce the total costs, the appropriations, the framework for the disability scheme. It is to be continued within what the Ministry of Finance calls a province-neutral framework, which thus does not mean contractions. What the representative might think about is the old age pension, which is a different matter. There I think the picture of a lift is very good, because the point is that the cost of an old age pension is going to continue to increase, overall, and the pension of the individual is also going to increase in the years to come. But yes, they're going to increase slightly less than they would do without the Pension Reform. But that doesn't mean cut. It means less increase and less increase is not ‘down’. Less increase is ‘up’. I'm standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2625	The Prime Minister was very concerned about the welfare of today and the workplaces today, and that no one should have the right to complain in this country. The things I'm most proud of are the things left-wing people have stood for here in the hall. That's the big grips. It's often created conflicts, but it's been a point forward, like Johannes Steen's school reform, which I brought up today, or Gunnar Knudsen's reforms related to working life. The big money will be spent on the big tasks, said the Prime Minister, and he could have added: the big tasks today. What the government – the richest government in history – chooses here is to prioritize tasks today, but not to give priority to the major choices for the future. It's about knowledge, it's about research, it's about study places for those who are going to build jobs in the future, it's about environmental action – the new unborn business, all the ideas that are going to create jobs in the future. It does not make this budget right. So maybe we can say that the Prime Minister is really the true populist? You just care about people today, not about futures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2635	Now representatives from the opposition, including from the Left, have said since 2005 that we are not creating conditions for the future and are not facilitating business and innovation. Well, it's been five years, and we've had innovation, we've had new businesses, we have higher employment, we have a lot of entrepreneurs, and we're getting very high in international unions of where it's good to start businesses and run businesses. So it's actually that when it comes to starting businesses, it's going pretty well in Norway. Also there is the fact that we now have more private enterprises, more employed in the private sector than we had under the previous government. Then we're not satisfied. But hearing that we don't care about it gets a little bit funny. In addition, I also think we should get into the situation that not all of what we are for should be measured in how much money we give it. But I think, for example, the fact that we are sound and responsible in economic policy, that we keep order, so that interest rates are low, perhaps the most important contribution we make to creating good conditions for large and small enterprises and for those who want to create new businesses in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2642	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2645	I think the debate so far bears the mark of a red-green government fighting in the counter-ground. It is not just a matter of polls, but it may have been discovered that within five years a pile of money has been used without getting so many results, other than that you are left with quite a number of blurred voters turning your back. This is because one has forgotten to modernise Norway. It has been forgotten that being a welfare society at the top of the world actually requires continuous transformation and modernisation. Therefore, the scare pictures of blue-blue cooperation, or what is now called, do not go home, especially well, precisely because the argumentation is based on sand ground. It's built on sand ground, because right has a history of building safety networks. Conservatism has an embedded social commitment. That is why it was during Emil Stang's prime minister's time that the first social security system was adopted. It was nine years before the Workers' Party was represented at Stortinget. It is built on a sand basis because people know that the Right stands for a sound economy – it must be done to make such a doubt about it. We stand for a society where we focus on equal opportunities for all, a society where freedom of choice is a right, and the state pays for the service, while having choices between using public or private. This is not privatisation, as I see more and more coming out of the debate. It is more about the fact that resources in society are actually to be used sensibly and efficiently. It is also built on sand ground because people see that we have a red-green government that does not get rid of the queues – the queues are increasing rather in a number of areas. We have a school that's still struggling with many going out of school without being able to read and write, and a pretty big drop-off problem. There's not much speed on transportation. We are behind the objective of the national transport plan, and we are injecting a lot of money into offers that do not hit the user. This is the basis for the record in the number of private health insurances. I noticed that the representative of Kolberg was in the privatisation of the school. Obviously, if you don't get the school order, there's a part that starts to pay for the way around. It's privatisation. When people no longer want to use the offer that the public makes possible, and they pay for themselves, you have real privatisation. Then you get a two-part society. It's actually the red-green government that's behind it, if you don't take the challenges seriously. I followed very closely when Minister of Finance Johnsen spoke about the rule of action. There was only one party that had broken the rule of action, I think he said. That's right in itself, but the red-greens have also scraped three-quarters of it. We in the Right are very sorry about that. I could read up from the rule of action as it was designed in 2001. It illustrates that there is a considerable difference also between the Stoltenberg I government and the Stoltenberg II government. There was a slight exchange of lines here where Stoltenberg used examples from the Stoltenberg I government as a guide to what he stood for. However, the rule of action also emphasised that oil money was to be used for growth-enhancing measures such as tax relief, research and education, and they were to go on building infrastructure. Five years of red-green government show that one and a half of ten new oil crowns into the economy have gone into that kind of investment. During the Bondevik II government, there were nine out of ten dollars going to it. I think we all recognize that we live in a very good society. We want to improve it, but then there has to be a completely different strain on the improvements. Otherwise, I think the only Europe that envys us is that we have a lot of oil money, just postponing the challenges Europe is now facing. We're also going to get them too full in a few years. It's also a little bit strange that the red-greens don't take over. If we read the national budget, there is no doubt that the challenges are coming much earlier than we expected just two years ago. The 2009 Perspective Communication gave the impression that we had the period until 2050 before we really wanted to meet the challenges. This year's national budget shows that the entire space for action is almost gone because we've crossed the top of the oil economy. We can't find new oil, and the gas market is much more uncertain. The challenges associated with the ageing wave come to our attention as early as around 2020. So I'll talk a little bit about taxes, because the right is very recognizable in fiscal policy. We want sustainable growth. We want to focus on creating good Norwegian ownership, working pay, housing and saving to pay and be protected from taxation, and investing in jobs. We take seriously the governor's warnings last year. We see that we have a private sector that is still struggling, and that one should have had much more incentive into it. The most important thing we do is the minimum subtraction. It's a very accurate tool for low pay, and it has a very good social profile. We're also raising the top tax entry point by $9,000 more than the government. Overall, this gives a very good profile in stimulating work. I am amazed at the contributions of the representative Thorkildsen earlier, where she claims that those who have 3 million. kr in income, receives much more in tax relief than those with low incomes, with the proposal of the Right. Our tax relief is exactly the same for anyone who earns more than the point of entry for the top tax and up. It no longer gives in tax relief on income. But we focus on wealth taxes. And that focus on property taxes is precisely because the property tax is a peculiar tax on Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegians who live in Norway. We believe in multiplicity of ownership as a very driving force in relation to innovation and innovation. The wealth tax is an important part of our tax regime, precisely because we believe that we need to get a completely different focus on innovation and innovation. The taxes on wealth are the taxation of already taxed capital and definitely do not stimulate savings. So we're also taking action in relation to people's housing. Last year the bottomline was raised sharply. That's what we were for. But the government shows this year's true I by not raising the bottom line at all, and last year's exercise was probably more of a consequence that you had to season it a little when raising the average valuation of the dwelling from 20 pst. until 25 pst. of market value. We're going to lower it again to 20 pst. of market value. I think the Knipetang exercise that the government has done to Norwegian ownership is quite critical of Norwegian growth potential in the future. The fact that the Centre Party is part of a government that has doubled the property tax on working capital in five years, from 3.4 billion. kr to 6.7 br. kr, we believe is both strange and harmful to the Norwegian economy. Pensioners’ taxes have been strongly promoted in the debate during the autumn. We see that we need to achieve the goal of the Pension Reform and strengthen the working line, we need to do something to get rid of the tax restriction rule. It makes many low-pension pensioners have a marginal tax of 55 p.p., and it doesn't stimulate just for effort. That is why we agree with the main approach that is being taken. At the same time, we believe that the intersection of tax increases is too early. So we're doing grips that raise the intersection strongly. If we combine it with our other tax practices, there are no pensioners who get tax increases with the Right way. It could have been interesting if there had been real negotiations around the grips. Then we also do a series of approaches to business, like initial write-offs, and we introduce investment funds for individual enterprises. It's something that the Central Party's voters should ask for quite strongly, and that they've asked for strongly, but as the Center Party is now probably agreeing to vote down. We're raising the Tax Fund back to the level it was at under Bondevik II, and we're stimulating young people to save through the BSU. Overall, I believe that we have a very good tax system that is well balanced in order to create growth and opportunities and stimulate saving, and that is what Norway needs in the future to ensure the well-being we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2679	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2683	First of all, I understand that the Right is struggling with the story. If the voters had turned their backs on us, the representative Gundersen would not have been in opposition for four years. But then what I was really going to ask about. There is a particular difference in one area between the Right and the Advance Party, and that is when it comes to calculating the so-called dynamic effects of tax cuts. Here the right has a dynamic power of 300 million. kr in its option, while the Progress Party has invested a total of 6.3 billion. kr. The only source I have found for the calculations of the Party of Advancement is an article in Societonomen No. 4 this year. But the same article makes it clear that that gain is a completely specific change and that other types of changes will not have the same dynamic effect. What's in that perspective background that the right has added only 300 million? Do you really want to delete this item? And what does the fiscal spokesman in the Right think about the Progress Party being able to input 6.3 billion? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2692	We believe that we are very careful when we estimate the dynamic effects. What's really most amazing is that the government hasn't even begun to take it in yet, because it's well documented. State Secretary Schjerva has an article in Today's Business today describing the dynamic effects. The dynamic effects I think are now starting to get well established. It is clear that we believe that the Progress Party is reasonably optimistic in the estimation of its dynamic effects, but we are also very conservative. I don't think we would have any problems defending bigger, but we don't want to get into the position where it's being questioned. Rather, we want the focus to be on the dynamics of taxation, and we are waiting for the government to begin to accept it based on the analyses it has made in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2697	Business clusters where large and small enterprises cooperate well with universities or colleges may be one of the most effective business activities. It is perhaps the economic measure that exploits as much competence as possible for innovation and value creation. Such clusters are funded, among others. through two programmes, Norwegian Centres of Expertise and Arena. Now it turns out that in its alternative state budget, the Right dramatically cuts the budget lines that finance the Norwegian Centres of Expertise and Arena. I wonder, is it that Right does not seem that close cooperation between large and small enterprises and universities and colleges is important to bet on in a policy context? Right in very many other contexts is very busy with knowledge as the basis for economic development. And especially in the South, which has clusters like NODE, which are really lifted with these fundings, how can you go tell them that the clusters should have been shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2704	I think that the questioner could be specific about what savings he's thinking about, because I don't think we have any cuts that make it impossible to continue to prioritise within the rules. The only means we remove are the regional development funds of the county. They see me developing a pretty big bureaucracy in the county. I think very little money comes to business. But what we're doing is we're adding 400 million. kr for regional development to be disposed of by municipalities. Priorities can be set in Innovation Norway with regard to traders, incubators and the type of instruments in which I also have strong faith. I think it's important to find venues where research and different actors meet to create new activities out of the knowledge they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2711	The representative, Gundersen, is talking about security networks and equal opportunities. This would indicate that you need to rewrite both history and your own program in order to be able to follow up in practice. It is said that if the public offer is not good enough, there will be privatisation. Of course, the government's representatives agree with that. That is why we are strengthening the public offer. It's hard to hear all of this. In the case of taxes on wealth, what is at the heart of the Right’s argument against taxes on wealth is, of course, that if a person removes taxes on wealth, the option to taxes on wealth is property taxes, and then the financial capital is taxed. The strongest thing, however, is that the representative, Gundersen, who comes from Hedmark, does not have a greater focus on business policy and the green economy. So the government's plan is to invest in the green economy in relation to our renewable natural resources, and it's really sad that the Right doesn't have a clear and high profile at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2720	I guess I couldn't quite find the question, but I can talk a little bit about property taxes. Because I think there's something that really affects District Norway, it's property taxes. There is a huge impact on local ownership and family ownership in many of the small corner stone holdings around Norway. To the representative of Lundtigen, I can also inform you that 1.3 billion. kr in taxes on wealth is paid by his group of farmers. So a significant measure to improve the equity situation in agriculture is to remove taxes on wealth. But the most important thing is to stimulate a wide range of private ownership in Norway, because I think that is at the heart of new innovation and jobs. The owner of a small enterprise has no other option than to take more capital out of the enterprise to cover the property tax. That's the argument for removing the taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2725	I'm basically a sober and consensus-oriented man, and I think Gunnar Gundersen is too. I see that the Right has put its rhetoric into the center and talks more about people and less about billions, as they themselves announced that they would do. That's good. But isn't it time for recognition that if the Progress Party and the Right can go together to form the windiest government in the country has had, it's going to be quite dramatic changes, that it's problematic that so many millionaires can become zero-tax collectors, and that growth in municipalities and hospitals will be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2730	We've always signaled that the zero-tax problem has to be taken seriously, and we can attack it in completely different ways than what you do through the taxes on wealth. But in fear of experiencing the same thing that was done in 2006, when the dividend tax was introduced without the wealth tax being removed, we are not going to give the red-green ideas in that area. Now you also have to respect that the zero-tax problem has two sides. If you run a business, you actually lose money. I would think that even a red-green politician thinks it's highly unreasonable to pay taxes if you don't make money. Then it is at least to weaken the jobs of the enterprises that the owner has, if you continue to tax it. Then we have a zero-tax contributor problem based on planning. That's where we're going to get involved in a discussion. I think we also know what measures you can take to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2739	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2742	The financial crisis is a heavy and dramatic reality in many European economies. I have listened very carefully to the debate today, and I notice that there seems to be a very large consensus that we in Norway got through very well through the financial crisis, as it is said. The opposition's leading figures representatives also say that we got through the financial crisis well. However, Mr Sanner, the right-wing spokesman in this area, said that this is because of the oil, because of good commodity prices, and because of good and competitive companies. At least it is then that there is an approval of the economic policy that our government has pursued over these years in essential areas. We have good and competitive businesses in Norway today that are able to withstand difficult economic times for the European and Western economies. But Sanner said, as there's reason to notice, not one word about this being political. When the government had the opportunity to go to the Storting with all the measures that also the opposition largely joined, it was the result of social democratic thinking, namely that the state should play a significant role in the economic organisation. I do not understand that the representatives of the right-wing parties cannot stand up and acknowledge that this is the case, and that this is why it is possible for Norway today to say that we have come through the financial crisis well. The budget that is under consideration today, and which we shall vote for later this evening, is a continuation of that line. It should be possible to admit it. It is a continuation of a policy that ensures employment and contributes to a significant value creation in Norwegian society, far beyond what the right parties have achieved in previous government periods. Norway is in a glancing period in terms of value creation. What's going on? Well, of course, it's because we have a relationship where the state actually plays a much larger role, and it's not being undermined by political decisions. Then there is a historical thread through this debate, namely the issue of taxes, a reduction in taxes – and now it is about taxes on wealth. Every year it has been so that the right parties have consistently talked about that there is too much tax – there is always too much tax. Had it not been the property tax, it would have been another tax. And if it hadn't been taxes, it would have been taxes. It's always been like that, and now we hear that too. Then the problem is what I think the Norwegian Parliament should be dealing with: what other economies have used the prescription that is being foreshadowed here, now also by Gundersen, is such that you get out of the crisis that Europe is in? After all, it is the economies that have reduced taxes that have created so-called flexible working life by reducing workers' rights in the labour market and creating instability in it, which destroys and undermines the value creation of the capitalist economy. That's actually what's going on. This shows that the budget that the government has provided, which is a continuation of an overall line, is what is the focus of this development, and that our analysis has been right, precisely because we have done a value creation higher than ever before, in addition to giving workers a real wage increase that is far beyond what we have seen in any other economy. That's the situation. This cannot be met by the opposition. That's why they're standing here complaining about the wealth tax, which is a small thing in the big picture. That's all they have to do in opposition to the budget that's there. I see that the time is near, President, so I'll try to get back to the entire privatisation issue later. I hear what the right-wing representatives say about privatisation and the ability to create flexibility. I'm just going to say one sentence at the end, and it's like this: they say they're going to have private solutions, but they say at the same time that they want it to be public that's going to pay. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2755	The President shall be responsible for ensuring that the speakers comply with the speaking time allocated. It is fully possible to draw multiple articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2759	I have followed the arguments of the chairman of the Finance Committee, Torgeir Micaelsen, and Prime Minister Stoltenberg's many attempts to ridicule the use of dynamic effects in fiscal policy by the Progress Party. It's been clarifying to me, because now I understand why these two don't understand why Rimi-Hagen and REMA 1000-owner Reitan have become billionaires selling cheap food. In their world, this is an impossibility – how can they make more money to lower the price of a product? In 1998–99, the Progress Party received a majority in budgetary cooperation with the central government to remove something called the value tax on passenger cars, a charge of 100 pst. when the entry value of a car exceeded a certain sum. According to the Ministry of Finance, this cost 50 million. kr in lost proceeds. When the accounting figures for this year were completed, it was found that the opposite was the case. Because these cars were possible to buy for ordinary people, so many were sold that there was actually an income for the state and not an expense. Now I don't know if the Council of State, the Ministry of Finance and the head of the Finance Committee don't understand this with dynamic effects, or if they just later don't exist. The result is wrong anyway, and I will not recommend any of them to start a business, because if they use the same logic there, it will mean that the higher the price they put on the product, the more they will earn. Such enterprises do not use to survive that long. The same will apply to taxes and charges. By reducing these, the turnover will increase and give the same effect as the REMA 1000 owners experience. By lowering the tax on income, or the progress of the tax system, more people want to work more, simply because they get to keep more of the income. It will in turn mean an increase in the turnover of taxable income, and a decrease in the tax rate will result in more than one contribution. This leads to more establishments and jobs. When the government and the Ministry of Finance attack us in terms of dynamic effects, why have they reduced the employer’s fee in some parts of the country? Is it to be nice with northerners, or is it because they think it creates more jobs? The Party’s tax reductions include reduced car charges, reduced petrol and diesel taxes, reduced document fees, reduced electricity tax and removal of inheritance tax. In addition, we are promoting a border-trade package in which we propose to reduce tobacco and alcohol taxes. In the border regions in particular, this will lead to more jobs in Norway. Today the trade leakage to Sweden is over 10 billion. kr. There are several reasons for this, but the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco is one of the main causes. For those who had to rely on the dynamic effect of this, there would be an increase in the tax input because the sale of tobacco and alcohol would largely transfer from Sweden to Norway, increased VAT input because people would trade in Norwegian shops, and higher tax input from those who would have been employed in Norwegian shops. The promotion party also removes the power charge on passenger cars. This will mean that the population will be able to choose the car they think they need more. In addition, the part of the car park that needs to be renewed – the larger family cars – will be replaced by new technology cars. For several years, the move from the districts to the centres has increased. The last numbers from the Nordic countries clearly show it. There's a lot of reasons for that. However, a common denominator for government action against this and the ever-increasing movement rate is that the more people move, the more of the same measures the government implements. I've often wondered when the government should understand that when a user of the wrong medicine, it doesn't benefit to pee on more of the same medicine. That's why the Progress Party is using a different medicine. And although this is a complex problem, there are two areas that are important. One is to lower the level of fees charged to those who want to stay decentralised. That is why the Progress Party is lowering the fees on petrol and diesel. Then the Progress Party invests in road construction and maintenance so it notices, and then without imposing costs on the inhabitants in terms of tolls. But obviously, the government parties have not understood that. They keep popping at more of the same medicine that doesn't work. One still sees that the government is concerned about the cost of setting up young people. It seems strange to me when someone knows that it is the government that is largely responsible for it through an extension of the building law, which has got the construction costs to shoot in the weather. And not enough with that, it adds something called a document fee, a fee where home buyers have to take top loans at the most expensive interest rates to pay to the government the money they so badly need. The draft budget of the Progress Party believes that the individual is able to make his own reasonable choices when he gets to keep more of his tax and tax money – contrary to the red-green government, who wants to control the population from cradle to grave by making the choices that the people themselves can make.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2782	Martin Kolberg was worried that his time in the pulpit was out, but I can tell you that the government's time is also about to go out. What I feel is that this debate has been fairly clear, is that the government is simply taking the loss of advance in 2013 and telling of the ‘danger’ you see when the bourgeois parties take over the majority of this room, but also the governance of the country through the government. You are called in by the other countries. In the past, the State Councils of the Workers Party have talked about the Nordic welfare model. Then we have talked about the Scandinavian welfare model, but as the other countries have been given bourgeois governments, which have been re-elected, we are now only talking about the Norwegian model. It is quite indicative of the threats that are coming – what will happen when there is a bourgeois government here. In other words, they show that the people generally want it, and we manage to make a good policy. No Marte Thorkildsen came up with a rather fierce definition of civilization. She said that the basis for civilization is a high tax. The basis for civilization does not necessarily have to be a high level of taxation, but, among other things, a high level of taxation. a strong public state. For the Right, we have prioritised quite significant tax reliefs, and in terms of the tax reliefs, we have, for our part, focused on removing the inheritance tax from 1 January 2011. The inheritance fee is one thing – we are used to it in relation to the house and home that we have inherited from parents and grandparents. But I also want to pay attention to the inheritance tax that applies to our companies. The Financial Committee has been around the country and has visited, among others: Nergård concert in North Norway. As a family-owned, large industrial company, they had a huge problem when the founder, the owner, unexpectedly and abruptly died and his two minor children were to inherit the company. What would you pay inheritance tax for? You didn't have any income. Finally, the following option was added: either dividends and weaken the equity of the company, or sell parts of the shares. But who is it that buys 10 pst? by a company, and at what price do you do it – a bad price? And you just get bad influence by 10 pst. ownership. Unfortunately, it has been the beginning of a sale of the Nergård group, and last week we could read a note in the Business of Today that the Nergård group was now sold. It had its origin in a death, it had its origin in an inheritance fee. Hopefully, the group is able to move on, but it shows that the inheritance tax affects family-owned companies in District Norway, which are initially doing well. That is actually one of the reasons why the Right wants to remove the inheritance tax, because there is actually a triple tax on something that is already taxed. In its alternative State budget, the right has also had a significant comment on the taxation of natural gas. On the right, the natural gas charge has halved because a natural gas-based industry was wanted in Norway. The Right Party and the Workers' Party have been in agreement for a long time, even agreeing that we were in the hands of the previous government in which the Senter Party was involved. What is important for us to see is that we have introduced a CO2 tax that is in addition to the allowance obligation. I believe that the Minister of Finance is now beginning to be obsessed about after a considerable number of questions from the Right through Question Time and in connection with the budget. In fact, it is a serious problem that the Committee and the Ministry themselves say that dual use of instruments should be avoided for reasons of effectiveness and environmental taxes, respect for other taxes and taxes — and thus double taxation has been imposed with open eyes. In the previous Question Time, the Minister of Finance was not here, but the Minister of Environmental Protection answered another related question. It is quite obvious that the Ministry of Finance has not thought well enough about how to use taxes for the environment — which are good and good — if, in addition, a quota price is capped with quota obligations and which at the gas power plant at Kårstø has too low a free quota, if you compare it with Mongstad. Then there is a triple and preferably quadruple tool usage, when we know that electricity has an electricity charge in addition to that for the consumer. There I think the government has to do something. There are also things that indicate that the government has been a little too busy getting the fees from 1 September. Massive criticisms have come from wholesalers, from natural gas sellers who are selling free of charge to farmers, ferry companies and what is not done. It may not be of bad will, but it is enough that the Directorate of Customs and Fees has its interpretation, and the department has been so busy that they have not guaranteed it quality. Then we have a different situation. In fact, I think the ministry and the finance minister should correct that. We have put invitations in comments to the Ministry of Finance and to the committee that unfortunately the red-green have not followed up. Another thing that the Right has gone against is an increase in the taxes on alcohol. The government promoted a rather sharp increase in brandy fees. The Minister of Finance himself used in his press conference the argument that Sweden increased its levy. The problem at the time was enough that the department had not yet ensured that aspect, because the Swedish government has not yet chosen to introduce it. There is a one-sided Norwegian tax increase which is quite violent and which does not have alcohol policy justification. It has only consequences for border trade and other negative effects. Therefore, the right vote against that fee. There I also think the Ministry of Finance should take self-criticism, that one has a little too easily believed – what to say – Christian-democratic statements in the Swedish election campaign, without checking what the government in Sweden actually did. The right also has clear requirements for the public sector to a significantly greater extent than the red-green government. There is no doubt about what Helga Pedersen was about, what happens two and three years after a civil budget has been submitted. For example, if you want to do something about it, you want to do something about it. see significantly tougher requirements for the administration of Norway, considerably tougher requirements for simplification and red tape, which in turn will lead to fewer – what to say – bureaucrat workplaces. Over the next six years, this government – the Stoltenberg Governments – has not helped to reduce the proportion of red tape in enterprises from 54 billion. kr to something lower. It's a pretty big – what to say – achievement despite the fact that there has been a unanimous demand from the Stortinget, also from the red-greens. I don't think it's due to a lack of will, I think it's simply because of a lack of focus. I think the red-green government a little too often focuses on granting, and forget that when you're a government council, you're responsible for directing, demanding external agencies, and demanding ministerial councils and heads of agencies that you actually carry out simplification. I believe that the angle of incidence is at least not in the back of the SV councils, and perhaps not in so many workers' party councils either. There I think it would have been a big change when the new bourgeois government came in. We have had a lengthy debate, obviously also internally in the government, because Minister of Culture Anniken Huitfeldt simply says that the issue of VAT on e-books is not settled. That's what she's been saying in question time. The finance minister has well adopted or submitted some budgets that say that so is the case, and his State Secretary Schirva has repeatedly been there. SV is now the party that is the most important for VAT on e-books, as well as the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Minister of Finance. In its alternative state budget, the right has said that we do not want VAT on e-books. Now it is correct that we have finally received a happy news today, just before the iPad comes to the Norwegian market. Cappelen Damm is the first to come out with relatively cheap books on iPad. It's a great job that a lot of people have wanted. On the right, it is believed that if VAT exemption had been achieved, a new industry in Norway had been consumer friendly, modern and taken into account the linguistic political considerations that a total increase has actually done until SV got a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. Right has a good budget and that's why it's a shame that we have to wait a few years until we get through.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2816	We congratulate the representative, Mr Syversen, on the day before today, and I think it is also appropriate to congratulate the representative, Mr Kambe, today. If I say tax reinforcement to the representative Kambe, I think he'll get colds on his back. Treasure Sharpening – it's the most ugly thing. And tax relief, we have heard that from all the Right-wing representatives, is very important. For that is the right mantra: treasures! But there's one area on the right that has tax austerity. A few days ago, we discussed a proposal here in the Chamber concerning the right of deduction for the trade union quota. The proposal was aimed at facilitating the exercise of this right of deduction by more people. In that debate, it was stressed that ‘it is a tool for having a high proportion of trade unions’. I then ask the representative, Mr Kambe, why in all the world he is proposing that this area be given a tax boost. Why are only the trade unions going to get a tax boost?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2827	Thank you for your congratulations. I know the wording that Opheim refers to. In fact, it was my wording as rapporteur on the matter. The right is concerned with tidy working conditions. The right is very concerned that the social partners have a good relationship. In fact, having national collective agreements is a point. The right-hand ones invited red-green parties to get a bigger case where you see the union quota in a larger context, because someone can't benefit from it. So the Right has said that because the red-green government has had such a strong increase in the deduction – far beyond the salary increase, far beyond the second price increase – we have to go back to the level we had during the Bondevik government. It's a completely different level. At the same time, this includes, inter alia: so that the Right increases the minimum deduction by NOK 5000, and only by doing so has the Right strengthened also for the trade union organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2838	The President will also take the opportunity to congratulate Mr Kambe on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2841	I have to repeat the question that I have asked a previous right-wing representative here today, because he gave a wrong answer. He claimed that the Right did not cut the funding mechanisms that contributed to providing support to the Norwegian Centres of Expertise and Arena, some of which are very important for economic development and for modern and forward-looking business development. Now I've been picking up page 74 of Right's Alternative State Budget, and it says they're cutting 200 million. kr in national cooperation for regional development, such as, inter alia, goes to these programs because they're going to spend more money on oil drilling in the north. Will the representative from the Right still claim that they do not cut the funding that is involved in financing NC and Arena?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2846	The right has a quite comprehensive and good business policy. As others have been in today, it is linked, among other things. up to approx. 10 B.C.E. kr at tax and tax levels, which contribute to the improvement of businesses. So that's absolutely right. The right has programmed both that we should abolish the county council and that we should do something about county councils. This has meant that we have actually taken away some of the county food and, among other things, some of the county food. transferred, as Gundersen also pointed out, 400 million. kr to the municipalities. We have, as Mr Holmelid may have to pay more attention when the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Finance is here, set at 200 million. of them to the county highways just because we're going to have to build a road. When we're on company visits, business leaders don't ask about more county funds around. They like to ask about better roads, better tax policy and, in addition, a different structure of government than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2853	When individuals pay taxes according to their ability, they pay income taxes and property taxes. And as I have said many times, property taxes are an extra tax on labourless income over a certain size. Property consists of assets and financial assets. In the case of the asset, there is largely physical means of operation. There is a discussion on the taxation of working capital for maritime operators and the valuation of the assets of non-listed companies. My question is: can the representative Kambe confirm that when the Right removes the property tax, does the Right no longer have the possibility to tax financial assets of individuals at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2860	I understand that Lundtigen is busy with the property tax, because it's actually his voters as well. I think that if Lundtigen had followed up the nice words he says about capital, the peasants would actually have escaped to pay the property tax of their tractor and of their ploughs. And if, in addition, the representative Lundtigen could be given the opportunity to say what he thinks about the depreciation rates, which the Right proposes to increase, and which include. Business also benefits, reduced taxes on wealth and inheritance, would have been good. In other ways of taxing business, there is still an equation of private property, there is still an equation of commercial property, and there are municipal property taxes. The vast majority of traders who pay taxes on wealth pay pay taxes via their enterprises, who in turn have employees who pay taxes on wages and salaries – and that is an employer’s tax to the country. So that one becomes zero-estimated because you remove the property tax, is grossly misleading.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2867	My question was very precise. Property taxes are paid by individuals. Private individuals have their wealth both in assets and in financial assets. If one takes away the wealth tax in general, will my question be: Those who have a large financial asset, will they at all be taxed on their large accumulated financial asset?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2873	If you remove the property tax, which is a tax on Norwegian ownership, which is a tax on profits, which is a tax on equity in companies, it is clear that if you have it as a financial asset in addition to ordinary capital, then you have it both ways. If, like the red-green government, you can't find the distinction between working capital and ordinary financial capital, it's clear that then there will be other ways to treasure these people. Then you don't do it by means of the tax slip to the individual, of course, you do it by means of the tax slip in terms of profits, taxes on dividends and usual operating taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2878	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2881	CO2 emissions increase the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and researchers conclude that this results in a global warming. I'm starting with this because about a quarter of the main hall in the design of its policy overlooks this scientific fact. Just as the same assembly conjures up over 6 billion. until they call dynamic tax effects, they deflect man-made climate change. This assembly is called the Progress Party and has intended to join the government with the Right, which is a party to the Climate Change Agreement. Norway is among those countries that are now reducing their emissions. We contribute to large emission reductions through, for example: rain forest management, and through climate change, we have laid the technical basis for the very large and comprehensive changes we are going to make when the new climate communication is to be presented. The total climate effort in this year's state budget is, despite the fact that we have more to go on, record high and more divisions over something Right, Left and Christian People's Party has ever delivered. When the bourgeois ruled the country, Norway’s emissions were negotiated, now Norwegian emissions are on the way down. Then it is a poor follow-up to want to lower the gas prices and remove what is called speorno requirements for emission limits and expand more infrastructure to burn gas in Norway without cleaning and at the expense of renewable heating. That's what we can expect from a Right Party government, and it certainly gets a lot of the criticism from that edge to appear as a hole. Too much of the Right Policy is about self-fulfilling prophecies. When the Right in Government fought through the construction of the Worm Lange, the warning of the power crisis that would occur in my home region was overlooked. SV was the only party that warned against the situation we are now up in, and said no. The right hit with the result that today they are using the power crisis they themselves created to argue for gas power plants in the region, which in turn will cause dramatic increases in CO2 emissions, and which will make the Right completely incapable of meeting the climate obligations Right itself claims to be so worried about. The same self-fulfilling prophecies will hit North Norway, which the party almost refers to as a developing country in its oil drilling struggle. In its alternative budget, the Right asses most of the economic development. I wonder what the Right Representatives of the District Municipalities think about this. One should not move so much outside Oslo West if one imagines that the removal of the stock abate creates more jobs than the Norwegian tool. North Norway is hit hardest. North Norway loses $0.5 billion. kr in addition to heavy cuts in postal services, in travel, in local shops, in the number of women entrepreneurs, etc. And that's how the Right Scarecrow in the debate on oil drilling in the North becomes reality. Workplaces are being laid down, a multiplicity of bets on local businesses, tourism, renewable projects, etc. be offered for a monomantous focus on petroleum activities. North Norway is deprived of money, taking the whole risk of accidents, while the money is in Rogaland, where the representative Bent Höie can campaign for increased value creation in the home state through the exploitation of resources in the north. This is the wrong way to go. The Lofoten and Vesterålen case only opens the door to Higher Environmental Policy. The party's oil policy spokespersons say with certainty that accidents will never happen on a Norwegian base, while we are coincidences away from disasters on Gullfak's C. Critical questions to oil companies about the safety of workers have been replaced by logging and accusations against environmental activists about cynically exploiting the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, as the Right last did at the oil trade fair in Stavanger. It serves the party in small honor, but unfortunately it is entirely in line with the taboo of previous responsibility that the party also displays in the field of protection, in the area of coastal zone policy, in the field of predatory debate, etc. One just has to wonder what former environmental protection minister Børge Brende has to think. Cheap claims that SV is not involved in value creation are bad from a party that believes in its budget that a one-sided focus on rent on a non-renewable resource is the only thing Norway should be committed to and constitute the main objective and meaning of life. It is neither forward-looking, sustainable nor in line with our climate ambitions and is therefore at least a good compass that shows which direction we should not take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2900	‘Politics are nothing but medicine in general’, said social medicine founder Rudolf Virchow 150 years ago. With this, he meant that politics is to divide living conditions and values, and thus health attitudes, between groups in society. Today, through the state budget, we are helping to lay the foundations for living conditions such as income, work, education, housing, food and the environment. In this way, we also distribute framework conditions for health. Public health is closely related to how society is organised. A society with the least possible differences provides better health for its population. Economic social security is one of the most fundamental provisions for good health and equal distribution of health. But it's not only how many dollars you have in your wallet that affect your health, but also how full your wallet is compared to other people around you. Some researchers believe that there is a basis for saying that income differences in a society give all social teams poorer health. The post-war generation in Norway has experienced a tremendous development in living standards and life expectancy. Health services have expanded during this period and are now among the world’s best. One reason for this development was 40 years of economic austerity after the Second World War. The worrying thing is that over the last 20 years, we have to record that the income gap between the economic elite and people has increased most, yes it's doubling. If these developments continue in the direction of an even greater gap in income between the rich and most peoples, this could challenge the emergence of the Community solutions of the welfare state and not least their financing. This is central and today represents the big difference between government’s better distribution policy, more community solutions and public welfare and opposition focus, which instead prioritises tax relief in the billion-dollar class and privatisation. 100 years ago, poverty and poor hygiene provided free room for infectious diseases and epidemics in Norway. Now most of the non-infectious diseases, such as heart and car diseases and cancer, die. The next 20 years, in many ways, our good life becomes the biggest problem. Life - style diseases are referred to by many as the new disease epidemic in Norway. But the positive thing is that a large part of these can be prevented. The following four measures are of major importance: reduced use of tobacco and alcohol more physical activity better diet better sunbathing habits In this work, the Centre believes that we must dare to take strong and effective structural measures. Taxes on alcohol and tobacco contribute to higher prices and reduce consumption. It is a solidarity policy and a policy for better public health to increase taxes on tobacco, snuff and alcohol in the next year's budget, as proposed by the government. We need to make the right choices easier. The centre also expects us to use similar structural grips in the diet in the future. The increased price of unhealthy foods could distort consumption in a health-friendly way. For example, a more active use of the sugar levy could reduce the harmful effects of sugar. Reduced value added tax on healthy foods, such as fruit and vegetables, will provide better public health and less social differences. In order to ensure a good health supply to everyone in the Centre, we need a strong public health service. Voluntary organisations, private enterprises and contract specialists are and shall be useful partners and a complement. The opposition places less emphasis on having a strong public health system. To secure what they call good and lasting well-being, they use the only tool they know, namely the private miracle. More use of private solutions is for those answers to all problems. The opposition is strongly in danger of increasing the use of competition, more New Public Management thinking and corporate economic governance are what is needed to drive the health sector forward. We're fundamentally indistinct about this. In my home municipality, the municipality has now opened up for competition in home care. My old father was offered by a private provider. In the letter it was written that if he needed help at night, the municipality and the public nurse had to offer it help. I thought this was descriptive. The sickest patients, the most wretched, those who need help at night, cannot or will not care for the private providers. Then you have to trust the municipality, the public service, that takes care of everyone – always.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2932	‘Everybody should go.’ It was the slogan of the red-greens in the election campaign. Everybody's coming. In this debate, I have basically heard the most about the terror propaganda if the blue-blue option comes. I have heard little about everyone coming. Everyone should join us, but not those who are tired of coming to work. The Christian People's Party stands out in the political image by not being so easy to place on the right-left axis because we choose a value axis. We choose to play with those who wear the most. In the budget before us, the red-greens are proposing to cut labour market measures by 7 000 jobs. Right today it is approx. 76,000 people in action. From New Year onwards, we will average 71 200 in 2011. The paradox is that it takes 900 days for you to get a health report until you actually get a job right. I see the Minister of Finance sitting here. This is not only an action that will help individuals finally get into work, but also a socio-economic action. 900 days on average they must wait. In the Christian People's Party budget, we give priority to increasing labour market measures because we know that it is an important tool to help people get out of work. Everyone's coming, but they're not going to the Nav office. It's going to cut 161 million. kr out in the county. Already today they have added too little time per user, things accumulate, there are remains. Savings that will apply at the top of the line, with the case handlers, I think I will have the consequence that there are even more people who are struggling to get the help they need, at the Nav office. All are included, but not those with reduced functionality. The percentage of people with disabilities who are at work goes down. Fewer people are able to come up with measures, which can help them, giving them valuable experience in getting out of work. Right now, according to Nav's statistics, 59,932 people with impaired function are on the move. And there are 154,000 people who have been given job skills assessment and who have not yet come up with measures – 154,000 who could be taken if we had given them an offer. In our budget, we prioritise people with reduced working capacity because they have a capacity, they have a desire to get into work, and that's vital. Everyone is going, but not the poorest. I may be young, but I think very well that many election matches are about the poorest. One of my memories is that Prime Minister Bondevik sat on TV and complained because he had not done enough. If there was one thing he wanted to do more of, it was that he would do more for the poorest. I'm thinking about how the red-greens behaved in the debate. I was a little tired on Bondevik's behalf, but today I am incredibly proud because the Christian People's Party delivered for the very poorest. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that the proportion of poor children in the three-year period 1999–2001 was 3pst. From 2006-2008 he was increased to 8 pst. - Almost three times as much. Children are world champions in trying to hide poverty. They say no, Dad, I don't have to go to football, because they know that dad and mom can't afford to send them to prom. Poor children may be one of the most important things we have to do with. It's tempting to go into dissatisfaction and warn cut that might come, but I'm not going to do it, because I'm going to take the social assistance rates. In the Christian People's Party's budget, we increase the social aid rate by 5 pst. What SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, said was the most important single measure to do something about poverty, is to get standardised, normed social assistance rates to avoid the fact that the differences are unimportant in the municipalities, a measure that will help those who need it the most. But I don't understand why the government party, and especially SV, choose to vote it down. In 2009, we got a new trend that should not be proud of. After 16 years of decline in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance, last year there was an increase of 8 000 recipients. The result after the red-green is not necessarily as good as the rhetoric. The Christian People's Party will give a proper lift to the people who are tired of getting into work. We want to include more people with disabilities, and we have created a brilliant budget to help people out of poverty. It is only a pity that the budget will be voted off, and that it will take a few years before the Christian People's Party's budget is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2962	The budget for next year is a budget for work, well-being and fair distribution. We managed well through the financial crisis and have low unemployment and very good development in business and the public sector. It is not obvious for other European countries that are our closest trading partners. Although we are now seeing growth in some countries, many European countries with high debt and high unemployment are striving to save a crisis-affected financial sector during the 2008-2009 crisis. High unemployment and large cuts in the well-being of people create social unrest. This is expressed through demonstrations, as we see from Ireland these days, and as we have seen from many other countries in the past. We will take good care of and develop our well-being. It assumes that we keep the economy in order, solve the major tasks jointly, and prioritize the cohesion of social differences rather than tax havens. It well facilitates this budget. Having a job to do is very important to all people. Labour is our most important asset, and investment in knowledge and skills is essential for the development of labour. The choices we make today are very important for the development of good employment in business and the public sector. The 2011 budget facilitates the rational use of our oil resources, so that we keep down the dollar and interest rates, increase nutrient research and development and increase the resources that enable us to develop an innovative and forward-looking business life across the country. I think the budget we are going to adopt today is good. It shows a direction for the development of our country that ensures growth and cohesion of differences. When I look at the budgets of the two right parties, I see a completely different direction. The progress part goes further, but the right side just goes in the same direction with a little bit less step. When both parties now express the will to come together in government after the next big elections, I have a great interest in seeing the two budgets in context. For me who comes from a district, it's a powerful diet. In Nord-Trøndelag is 20 pst. of the employment related to agriculture. In addition to farm operations, there are very many jobs in the food industry. When the Advance Party cuts $6.4 billion. kr in agricultural production until next year, and right cuts of SEK 1,7 billion. NOK, I assume they'll figure out a place like this in the middle. That would have meant a furoring of agriculture in my home country, and that would have led to the closure of very many jobs in the food industry. The agricultural settlement is an agreement between us in the Storting and the agricultural industry, and a breach of a concluded agreement must well be said to be far beyond the limits of propriety. Furthermore, the two right-wing parties cut the regional development funds of the counties and 500 million. kr of the population allowance. 90 pst. of the regional development funds of the Nord-Trøndelag county goes to commercial grants. Most of it is about innovation and development in small and medium-sized enterprises, with a major impact on value creation and housing. But also large companies like Aker Verdal have been supported to land their very first contract on the construction of chassis for offshore wind turbines. This is the development of eco-innovation that the same parties claim is a field of activity for our industry. The Progress Party and the Right are also opponents of regional research funds, which, in the view of the Labour Party, are very important for stimulating the public sector and small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in innovation and development. Knowledge and competence are essential for developing the country as a whole. Cuts in the appropriations for county councils must necessarily go beyond secondary schools, as this is the largest expenditure item in county municipalities have. Fifteen million. In the North-Trondelag district, the development work now taking place in the county would have considerable consequences, not least in terms of measures targeting the entire 13-year-old school cycle to improve the skills of basic Norwegian, English and math subjects and measures to prevent young people from falling out of high school. I'm using Nord-Trøndelag as an example because that's what I know best about. But the consequences will be the same for large parts of our country and have dramatic consequences for jobs and housing. If one, in addition to cuts in the agricultural structure and cuts in regional development funds and population grants to county municipalities, also adds to measures such as the weakening of tax equalisation from taxpayer to tax-weaker municipalities and the change in company tax from the state to the municipalities, with the effects of cohesion in large parts of the country, I fear that there may be darkness in many windows around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e2984	The right view for Norway is to create a society with everyone's potential, and in a society with everyone's potential, the possibility of looking for good health is also crucial. Good health for the population is not primarily ensured in our hospitals, or in our medical offices, but it is ensured by developing a good society. The most important thing is to have a good school that focuses on knowledge, which gives children and young people an opportunity to succeed in working life. The most important thing is to create safe and good communities where one has close social ties, and where one experiences that one can control the development of one's neighbourhood. And good health is created through safe and sustainable jobs, so that people can go to work and be sure that the job also exists in the years to come. All of this places the right emphasis on making an overall alternative state budget, and there is also the most important health policy. But when health fails, it is also important that it is a health service that is equipped to help and receive. That is why the Right has put forward an alternative state budget aimed at cutting health cows and waiting times. Since 2005, health cows have increased by over 70,000 patients. Now there are record 277,000 patients in line in Norway waiting for treatment, and waiting time increases in most areas. What does that mean? Well, that means, for example, that a photographer, Wesenberg, who has had a bad knee, which means that he can no longer go to work, goes to the doctor and is told that he needs surgery. He refers to the private clinic with which the public has an agreement, to get an operation. He'll be told that no, we've run out of knees this year. This says the smiling lady behind the counter. If you contact us next year, we have a new quota. And the photographer is worried, because if he gets sick, he'll have to permit two of his employees. So he's wondering if there's any other way out. And she says yes, there's no problem getting you operated on, we have capacity. If you want to pay yourself – it costs 13 000 kroner – you can make room for the week. It's this healthcare system that you meet today, a health care system where someone with a good economy can buy themselves out of line, but where one who has a poor economy depends on being on an ever longer waiting list. In its alternative state budget, the right is proposing a significant commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation, because in Norway today we are good at helping people when the blue lights are still on, but not so good at helping people get back into life when the blue lights are turned off. We also see that the weakest in our society, the drug addicts and those who are mentally ill do not get the follow-up they need over time. It is not a problem to ensure that a patient becomes drug-free, but it is incredibly difficult to ensure that he remains drug-free. And right there is the need to bet on rehabilitation and habilitation. The right has put in a clear priority to ensure the quality of care for the elderly, precisely because we know that what is essential for good care for the elderly is good, committed and competent staff. What will be the critical factor in the success of sending many people back and forth between hospitals and hospitals, or between home-based services and hospitals, is that one has good medical coverage in hospitals and that one no longer has 30-40 pst. unskilled, but provide all those involved with unskilled health care with the possibility of continuing training and further training. In this, there is also a policy that creates a society with opportunities for everyone, a society with lasting well-being, where one has the ability to take care of and create good health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3005	I'm a city boy. Because I know the asphalt in Tøengata and the pamphlet in Bergen so well, I have visited rapporteurs and other people throughout the country for the past few years – in Leka, in Flatanger, in Lenvik and in Askvoll. And if there's one thing they're busy about, it's making sure to create jobs. They know that if they're going to have the economy to keep the local nursing home and a good school, they have to have people in the municipality who give the transfers they need. And if they have people, they need jobs. And if they are to have jobs, they must have economic development, agriculture, fishing and a good local economy. If there is one thing that is effective district policy, then it is a good local economy. Statistical central agency has established this: nothing works better to ensure settlement throughout the country than to ensure a good municipal economy, so that municipalities are able to provide jobs and good services to people, whether they are nursing homes, care and care, a good school or a good kindergarten. And if there's one thing this government has been investing in the last few years, it's kindergartens, which has given full kindergarten coverage. We have gone counter-current in relation to the rest of Europe, which has cut off welfare services. We have increased the provision of welfare and demonstrated a belief in and an opportunity to maintain a good welfare state throughout the country. In the first few years of our reign, 49 000 more were employed in the municipalities. These are care and care workers, in kindergartens and in schools, who ensure that people living in municipalities across the country get a good welfare offer. And there are more than five times as many people who were employed in the four years of the Right Rule, well supported by the Progress Party. Those who were employed around the time do a great job. There is no doubt that with all the employees we have provided, the municipalities are able to offer a much better offer. I am meeting the Right-Rapporteurs around, and I still have the pleasure of meeting a Right-Rapporteur who wants to get back to the time when Erna Solberg was the one who ran over the revenues of the municipalities, which led to cuts and cuts and cuts – everywhere. Nor is it that if you present today the right-hand food budget to the right-hand rapporteurs, it will be cheering around. The rapporteur in Bø would not have been able to afford to put in place the Nergård fish factory, which had made the investments in local quays up there, which enable them to provide long-term jobs — not possible if a cutter in the way that the right-hand side does in the budgets today. Instead, we will focus on continued economic development across the country. And it's actually so that if you're going to be able to make progress, and be able to maintain the reverse operation that we in our government have been able to get around in all the municipalities of the country, you have to provide both a good community economy and a good business policy. Many, many places in the country experienced enormous centralization in the years when the right side was in power, and the centralization that always happens when the economic cycle points up. That development has turned into a very large number of municipalities. I'm meeting more and more people in municipalities where you've turned a decline in many, many hundred in the last years into a small rise -- maybe not with more than one, maybe some places with four new inhabitants in a year. But it's gold worth for the municipality that has few inhabitants, and that knows that the difference between cutting and starting to cut budgets and the ability to create the extra small space for action to bet on food development is exactly the four extra people who give extra income to municipalities. Within the municipalities and the well-being that is taking place, we have been focusing on child protection this year. It's important. When I meet the engaged people in Fjaler municipality in Sogn and Fjordane – where you have a collaboration between four municipalities that make a great effort to make sure that you give a real offer to and have a real follow-up of the children who are there – who know that we give extra millions to 400 new jobs, that's something that matters to make sure to help children. I'm a city boy, but my family is a stripper, and that's why we have to take care of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3028	It is a political conflict, not a consensus, about the Norwegian model. The right-hand side supports the Norwegian model in the rhetoric, but will take it apart with its practical policy. We see that in this room every day. Our competitive economy is a result of, among other things, strong tripartite cooperation, and we had never achieved record high employment without welfare policy schemes such as kindergartens, family allowances and other measures that gave women access to the labour market, funded by the tax bill. These are some examples of what are some of the ingredients of the Norwegian model, which will also crumble with the policies of the Advance Party and the Right. The financial position this year is no exception. The support of the Right Party and the Progressive Party for the Norwegian model lies only in the rhetoric, but is revealed as untrue in politics. What are they proposing? Indeed, they propose cutting health benefits, cutting social security schemes, removing measures against involuntary part-time, a weaker employment environment legislation, removing regional protection agents, removing qualifying aid, weakening the social security network and weakening decent working life. The progress party is probably going to protest on the cutlist I have now presented, because it is such that the Progress Party is able to cut 5 billion. kr in social security payments without anyone having to get one penny less in social benefits. It's because the Progress Party believes that their policies will reduce the number of people in need of these benefits, that is, people who today are going on social security are suddenly going to get well and be able to get a job, and they are going to have a job that is ready for them when the budget is adopted. We in this Chamber, we politicians, are here because we have a belief that a better world is possible. But it doesn't keep deciding that the world is better and different than what it actually is. You have to make progress in action. So when it's going to be saved 5 billion. The fact that people are suddenly not ill, and are not out of work on 1 January, is a budget with magic powers – a budget of magic. And I wonder how fast the Progress Party thinks this magic will work. Will these thousands of sick people be in work from 1 January, or will the Progress Party give them a few months to get out of social security? If these people haven't got into work since 1 January, where will the Progress Party pick up these five billions from since they've already been used up elsewhere in the budget? Will they then have to cut the benefits of those who receive social security? The government has a completely different strategy. We do not believe in recovery by alternative state budget. We choose to do the long-term work – to prevent disability, with an inclusive working life, with an employment strategy and with an unfavourable reform to make it easier to combine work and social security. The underprivileged social security system of the Progress Party is completely in line with their and Right rhetoric that there are too many who have social security, who should not have it, that it is a matter of poor work ethic, that it does not pay to work, and that those who receive social security represent a so-called exclusion, which exists outside the real society. We've seen the strategy before. In Sweden, the right-hand side established the myth of alienation, that it was the welfare systems that put people on the outside of society. That's how they sold in a logic that just cut into the schemes, people would suddenly be included. Therefore, the right-hand side of Sweden could rage the health pay system, cut social security and send people on social security. And we already see the result: the number of poor people has increased. I will take a great deal of distance from the fact that those who are currently on various social security schemes represent something outsidership. Those who are in social security in Norway today are part of the community, and it is precisely the welfare systems that make them that they are, when they cannot support themselves in the ordinary working life. In countries without social arrangements, a people who really fall outside find themselves in poverty. We are proud that we have a welfare society that takes care of everyone and does not leave people to themselves. It is the finest value in Norwegian society, and it stands for the fall of the Right Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3054	For a number of years, the Advance Party was disfellowshiped and ridiculed when we said that the responsibility for the hospitals had to be transferred from the county municipality to the state. We were tired of the blackout that went on, where state politicians had the choice of keeping budgets and increasing health cows, or treating sick patients and dealing with deficits. We were ridiculed, until the former Minister of Health of the Workers' Party, Tore Tønne, saw the sense of such a change of responsibility and was driven through the Health Reform in record time. For many years, the Progress Party has also called for a single-cost financing in the healthcare sector. We were almost ridiculed. Our political opponents claimed that it was introducing American states, which in their eyes was almost connected to the evil self. The health sector could not be financed in this way, it was said, until the concept of effort-driven financing, the ISF, was invented as if it were something quite different. We were able to get through 60 pst with the Bondevik government. ISF, and something strange began to happen. Health cows were getting smaller and smaller. The parties to the Government have changed this. ISF is reduced to 40 pst, and the result is not missing. Health cows are increasing every year. Now there are nearly 280,000 patients waiting for health care, and the queues have never been that long. One would then think that the government would take this seriously and put the patient in focus. But no, the consideration of the system is more important to the government than the consideration of the individual. The slogan ‘all must be included’ clearly means that everyone must be in one line or another. ‘All the people on social security or action’ is clearly another slogan for this government. We see too little willingness to allow sick people to benefit from the available available available surgical and treatment capacity, so that they can recover more quickly and many of them can return to productive work more quickly. We remember the red-green massive attacks on private operators in the election campaign in 2005. This policy is now bearing fruit in several areas. Private providers, who have for a number of years been positive contributors in rehabilitation, psychiatry, medicine and drug addiction, have lost everything, or are in the process of liquidation. A number of patients remain unsolicited or receive a worse offer. Ideology precedes the consideration of sick people. Within the drug field, this is going to be extra bad. We see run-down drug addicts wanting help to become drug free. They're motivated, but they're met by the fact that it's a long wait. As a result, they end up back on the road, and for many, waiting time ends with an overdose. Sometimes someone might wonder if that's how this government wants to remove the cows, but I don't think even this government can act so cynical. But then I don't find any offensive bets from the government on treatment services for the nearly 4,500 drug addicts who are in line, so what should you think? TV 2 has now revealed that 3,000 old, sick and needy elderly people are in line for a sick home. In the nearly 25 years I have been politically active, care for the elderly has been a theme in the election campaigns. There has been no lack of promises, and there has been no lack of promises. The Progress Party has also called for government funding for the care of the elderly, and we want the same automation as we have for health care. When a nursing medical system needs a hospital or healthcare facility, the money will automatically come from the country. Unfortunately, I do not see the contours of a person with the same breakthrough power as Tore Tønne, neither in the government nor at its party traps here on the Stortinget. That means that the Progress Party must have the necessary strength in the 2013 elections, so that we can get into government and introduce it ourselves. In the meantime, through our alternative budget, we're going to give the elderly care a strong boost through a 2 billion earmark. kr for operation. In addition, we will double the investment grant to health care facilities. We have invested funds for 3,000 new hospitals in 2011, which we have been able to demonstrate the need for. When the government presented its budget in October, it was claimed that it was a good budget to expand the welfare offer. But the criticism from Kommune-Norge became very massive, and the government acted almost panicking. The investment grant was increased and more than 800 million. Kr flew through the air without an extra crown being granted to cover it. 1 billion. kr in free revenues was launched as an older billion. But the fact is that since this is only a one-off amount, it in practice only amounts to 12 kroner per capita, or it operates 70 hospitals. This is a mockery of old, sick and nurturing people. The government also launched the so-called dignity guarantee. I do not understand that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health may be proud to say that the eight-point guarantee of dignity is more detailed and comprehensive than the sixteen-point long quality rule, which we have had since 1997. The quality code has been broken in Kommune-Norway every day since 1997, and then it doesn't help much to say the same one more time in a new regulation. In my own municipality of residence, which the Workers' Party has been running for nearly 100 years, it has already been stated from the highest level that the quality regulation and the guarantee of dignity still have to be put on hold for the coming year. Old, sick, and nurturing elderly people don't have time to wait. They deserve a valuable health supply at the best effective level of care, and they deserve it now when there is a need. In my time as a nursing home manager, I had many problems sleeping at night because I worried about the patients. I cannot understand that this government can sleep at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3074	Today we have repeatedly been painted up scare pictures from the red-greens about a Right and Advance Party government and about how bad it is going to go with the country. What has been throughout these descriptions is the risk of more privatisation and tax relief. Even with tax laws for most people and businesses, this is certainly a scare picture that you think carries through. No, this is wrong. Right builds well-being. Welfare is also built by private and commercial operators. Well-being is not just the state. Well-being is about enabling businesses to run a healthy and good business, and it is about giving the population the opportunity to make their own choices. When the government took over the right, it was in a situation of high interest rates and high interest rates, which caused major problems for the export industry. The economy was out of stock. We had to do a clean-up. Public expenditure had to be reduced, and then incentives and modernisation came. The scary picture that was used in this hall from this period, what was it? Well, it was tax havens, among other things, just to stimulate. The entire investment fee was removed for the companies, which contributed to a high level of vitalisation in the business world. We spent a lot of money giving better conditions for those who earn the least, namely the minimum deduction, and we put resources in place so that the middle income groups wouldn't have top taxes. In addition, we removed the housing tax. This is what becomes part of the scarecrow image of the red-greens today, because that's the exact same thing – with very small variations – we're doing in the budget for next year. So when Martin Kolberg stands here and spends on the harmful taxes, he can't have gotten involved in what's in these tax havens that the Right has deposited. That's the minimum deduction, that's the top rate, that's the entire inheritance tax, that's a tenth of a percent of the property tax, and then it's improving the depreciation basis to secure jobs. But the most striking thing is the lack of willingness of this government to modernise and to choose smart and new solutions. In the sector I represent, the transport sector, there's actually nothing in five years. In fact, this autumn we have not received a single case from the Ministry of Transport, except the budget. We have had two other issues for treatment, but they were promoted in June. We have kept ourselves engaged in Document 8 proposals. The rest of society is constantly renewing. In the transport sector, there is a complete standstill. Right will do something about this. We give priority to innovation in transport. We have presented a transport plan with 23 measures, all of which are about to be renewed and modernised. In the next year's budget, we're going to give an extra billion. We prioritise traffic-proof roads, both the highways and the highways. We are launching five major projects, which have been waiting too long for a clear signal from this government, as a OPS project. We're setting up a 50-billion fund. kr to be used for maintenance and to re-establish the suspense that has accumulated over many years. It will provide an annual return independent of government budgets. We are launching two new reward schemes: one for intermodal solutions at the hub and one for urban cycling – a series of measures to modernise a sector that is screaming for renewal. Yes, impatience is so great that it goes far into the government parties! I refer here to Sandman and Opseth and – formerly – Finance Minister Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3087	It is relatively rare to hear such hoards of self-esteemed genius that the tax breaks have performed here today. They have the solution to almost every societal challenge, only they will first clear the common funds for many tens of billions. For a dynamite! And they think, or they make it, at least so that the services are almost free only to be performed by private individuals. They call for more competition, more tenders, but they don't want to take the consequences of the competition – that it actually belongs to the logic that someone then loses. I have never had it possible to get the most out of tenders as a political fanatic – I can promise. But I realize that in many cases tenders are necessary, at least when commercial operators – sometimes with clear profit motives – are going to compete for the jobs. I have no problem admitting, sail if I'm part of the majority constellation here in the hall, that I can sometimes be wondered – yes, even get a little worried – about the outcome of tendering. And I feel especially with ideal actors, with obvious good quality, who lose. It is quite new for the health sector to make tenders. At least I refuse to believe that it is still not a form of improvement potential, and that it can even be misjudged. In this case, it is important to correct rapidly, so that the necessary patient services are not damaged. I can't get this stressed enough. The political order can be difficult to capture absolutely all the details. Therefore, health businesses must be very conscious of their responsibilities, in particular with regard to immediate assistance and rights reservations. We must – and will – look at how we get the best possible tendering processes in the future, where the political leadership is well taken care of. There's a kind of community of ideas between volunteering and the work movement. We know that we're strong together, and we're more concerned with community than with profit. Through this financial position, we've presented a 53 million worth worth worth package. This is in addition to the extra billion, which we would like to call the older billion, for municipalities and increased state grant schemes for nursing homes and nursing homes. And we get a lot for money, because we're smart and modern, and we're betting on extensive cooperation in partnership with non-governmental organisations. The worthiness package is about giving, among other things. related to people with dementia’s more knowledge of the disease, both in order to deal with challenges and better be a resource. Next year, we'll double our efforts with regard to family schools and conversation groups, which are very tender offers around our country. Now there's going to be many more. The worthiness package is also about more money to increase the skills of the people in the care and care sector. There will be more money for research and development in a field where we need more knowledge, and not least, as we learn, it will be good to spread knowledge. The Church's Bymission gets more money for very interesting projects towards demente. Nearly 30 of the 53 million in the dignity package go to actions and projects related to dementes and their relatives. At the same time, we ensure that the hearing aid system becomes nationwide. The Red Cross receives more state support for its visitation service, and the Lifeglede for Elders project is given the opportunity to expand its efforts. They have a lot to learn away, and, life quality knows no age limit. Dignity is about much, not least about how people experience the final phase of life. Many municipalities will receive government grants for different treatment and care measures next year. The Dignity Center in Bergen also receives a significant mark-up. The struggle for social orientation stands all the time, through the small steps and the choices we make every day. Tax haven means welfare. That's why we in the Workers' Party, together with our governmentmates, are saying no to tax credits for those who don't need it. We need every penny, and new billions and billions in the future to meet today's and future needs for good welfare services, not least in the health and care sector. It's smart and modern, and it brings innovation, dignity and justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3113	I have listened to the debate, and I hear that the red-greens believe that the only innovation that is right is to spend more money in the same areas, in the same way that you've been doing for decades. The propulsion party has a different approach angle. We want to renew and make the country more efficient, and get more of the means that have already been allocated to bring more benefits. Therefore, it is sad to note that the Minister of Finance is not at all willing to see and think about new ideas in relation to the economy. It did, after all, the finance minister when he was county, but it's obvious that something happens when you take the premises in the Ministry of Finance. When it's completely impossible to focus on the dietary principle, when it's completely impossible to think about synergies or dynamic effects, when it's completely impossible to think about positive proceeds, when it's completely impossible to distinguish between investment and operation, and when it's completely impossible to think about predictable budgeting and long-term budgeting, then there's no willingness for innovation in this government at all. I record that the rule of action is almost sacred – that it is the rule of action that keeps this country going and has kept it going. Yes, then there was a lot of irresponsible economy in this country under the Brundtland government, before the rule of action was adopted. The propulsion party has a different approach angle in that area. I am absolutely sure that at some point it will also imply with others who are engaged in politics, but I believe that we have wasted so many billions on the road and built up such a difficult public sector that it will be dramatic to make new changes. It's about these so-called 88 billion to the Progress Party. I have to be allowed to say that it does not scare me at all, when you send a question to the Ministry of Finance about how much these cuts to the Advance Party on taxes and charges will amount to. It's not something we're going to do in a year, it's going to be $88 billion. kr over four years – if this number is right – does not scare me at all, at least not when I look at the long-term plans of this government, which is going to build lightning trains for between 300 and 500 billion. NOK, which says no to 50 billion. kr to the Heidrun field, and accepting a terrible infrastructure costing perhaps 100 billion to the Norwegian business and public sector. kr per year. When government grows with 430 municipalities, 19 counties, 19 counties, 19 district officials, departments, directorates, supervision, sub-samples and sub-departments everywhere, without the ability and the will to think more efficiently, I'm not afraid that the Progress Party will cut $88 billion. SEK in taxes and charges of four years. We're going to pick that up by rethinking, modernizing this country and making it more effective. So it's as simple as the Prime Minister himself said it is. The Prime Minister said that the Norwegian model of society was based on the fact that at least this government had invested. Despite the fact that it had invested, taxes and taxes had increased – and that is denied when other parties think in the same ways. Dynamic effects of $88 billion. NOK in tax relief – if I’m a bit restrained and a little cautious, and that’s because we’re trodden – I think we’ll probably get at least 30 billion back. NOK 88 billion. kr. Then we're left with 58 billion. kr, which in turn will provide synergies beyond the first four years. Try to think for more than four years – you have to think for ten years, you have to think for 15 years, and you have to think for 20 years. To describe this government and what it is doing, I read in the VG today: ‘Asphalt of gold?’ In Fetsund, a 350 m long walkway has been built to 70 million. kr. It should've cost only $30 million. kr! That's what this government is behind, and it refuses to accept that it's wasting billions. Tens of billion are collected in taxes and taxes – 910 billion. kr in 2011 – and then you stroke them around without even thinking about diet–benefits. But when other parties take it up, it's of course a scare shot for this government, because it means a different course, and it means less power. There's someone who's been sitting and running this country for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3130	I want to start my post with a comment on one of the issues that has been debated here today. The privatisation instruments of the right-hand side will hit District Norway strongly. When Kristin Clemet was Minister of Education, the students of the South Trøndelag went on demonstration trains, because a free drop of private schools would lead to a new private capacity in the largest cities, while the public district schools would be drained for incomes and students. As a finnmarking, I don't feel much interest from private actors who want to establish themselves in neither school nor care, because they logically want to establish themselves where there are the most people and the largest market. In Denmark, the number of private hospitals has increased from 43 to 221 under civil law. If we were to have the same development in Norway, it would have a severe impact on health services and care for the elderly in the district of Norway. There are already challenges related to the recruitment of health professionals. Several private offers do not give more doctors and nurses, but there is more competition for them. There will be great differences in the welfare offer in our country. We live in the world’s best country, and government and growth have clear goals to strengthen welfare development in Norway. This means giving national leadership to municipal policies, which require political priority. Now is the time for a big uplift in the offer of older people. Very much of the elderly care provided in municipalities is of good and high quality. Much is good, but we lack places, both in nursing homes and in nursing homes, with a happy day's care. The aim of the Workers' Party is to provide full coverage of hospital and nursing homes by 2015. This has been followed up by increasing the grant of State co-financing to municipalities to expand these sites. We are pleased to note that the government of Prop. 29 S for 2010-2011 indicates an increase in grant rates from an average of 25 pst. to 35 pst. These percentages can be illustrated in crowns, with the grant to a health care centre increasing from NOK 660000 to approximately NOK 890000. Similarly, the grant to a nursing home increases from just above NOK 440000 to about NOK 670000. The government takes a larger part of the bill when it builds up several places. This powerful contribution is provided retrospectively, so that all the municipalities that have built up health homes or nursing homes and that have received commitments after the scheme was established in 2008 are paid at the new grant rates. The aim of the working party on full hospital coverage or nursing homes by 2015 is a long step closer to being realised after these additions, through an increase in free resources and earmarked grants. In addition, the free resources for the current year are strengthened by 1 billion. kr. It means more money directly to the municipalities. Oslo gets 105.5 million. kr, Bergen gets 50.2 million. kr, Trondheim gets 31.2 million. kr, Stavanger gets $22.5 million. kr, and Tromsø gets 11.9 million. kr. The increase in grant rates and the additional billion came as a result of feedback in this area from local politicians outside the municipalities. The government listened to the country's municipal politicians and their organization KS, and acted quickly. The municipal sector is the country's welfare engine that keeps Velferds-Norway going. The local politicians are doing an invaluable job around the country. Mass is good in Municipality-Norway. Much can certainly be done even better, but I would like to be allowed, on behalf of the Workers' Party, to thank for the efforts that are being made every day in the municipality by employees and politicians. In common, flooding, government and Norwegian municipalities are to improve and strengthen the welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3153	Prior to and during the election campaign, the government’s proposal for a national transport plan was referred to as the ‘traffic lift of times’. With the 2011 state budget, two out of four years of the action programme are in place. Of the national road investments, barely 45 are pst. in place, the train revolution in 2012 is deferred and many important road projects are also exposed. It reinforces the basis for calling the plan and follow-up for the greatest time of travel. To the extent that we find a road map, the drivers still provide it with toll financing. So far, in this period, that is, in the autumn of 2009 and now in 2010, there is an investment framework for toll projects of 12 billion. kr. It provides a cost framework for the drivers of almost 11 billion. kr. in addition to what is paid in ordinary taxes and taxes linked to cars. The transport plan made by the government – but which it does not follow – does not in any way cover the need for a modern, secure and energy-efficient transport network in Norway. The need is enormously much larger than the planning framework. The rhetoric of the Workers' Party must mean that users, with their need for modernisation of roads and railways, are on a level different from that of the government, because with the government's priority, temporalisation and funding it will take between 50 and 70 years to renew the transport network in Norway. The Progress Party believes that this is irresponsible policy. In the 2011 Progress Party's alternative proposals for the State Budget, the Progress Party is following up its own proposal on the National Transport Plan. We propose large-scale investments funded with well-known tools. The tool is State companies, state loans, project finance, multi-annual budgets, overall development of large projects, fund building and return on funds used on the road and rail. Not tools from another planet, but tools are known and actually used in Norway — and tools are known and used in other countries. The Progress Party will modernise roads and railways in 25 years, not in 70 years. We want to finance with state resources – not with extra taxes. I have registered that Prime Minister Stoltenberg, on the basis of the alternative budget of the Advance Party, calls us an irresponsible and irresponsible party. I have also recorded that the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman believes that the draft budget of the Progress Party is so unprofessional that it is most similar to the economic policy of 'a number of lugricating regimes in Africa'. The truth is, the Advance Party will bet 580 billion. on the modernisation of road and rail in Norway over the next 10 years. The truth is that the Progress Party follows its own plan and shows the coherence and follow-up of its own policies. Other parties do not follow their own plans. The voters may decide whether it is unprofessional or lucubert when the Progress Party believes that oil rich Norway should invest in road and rail. And the truth is, all of the other games are going to spend between 300 and 500 billion. kr to build lightning trains in Norway. The Progress Party will spend the money on modernising the road network and today's rail system. The Progress Party proposes to invest 21 billion in its alternative budget proposal. kr more than the government of the national road network. The working party must call it irresponsible. The Progress Party proposes to spend 1.2 billion. kr more than the government for racial protection. The working party must call it irresponsible. The Progress Party proposes to use approx. 7 B.C.E. kr for upgrading the county roads more than the government has proposed. The working party must call it irresponsible. The Progress Party proposes to use 1 billion. more than the government of traffic safety measures in the counties. The working party must call it irresponsible. We believe that for most people, the Workers' Party's focus seems to be on holding back instead of opening up to investment in road and rail unintelligible and irresponsible – in one of the world's richest countries, with an oil fund of 3,000 billion. kr. The Progress Party spends its money to help increase the growth capacity of the economy by making it more competitive. The party of progress will invest, not speculate. The Progress Party will invest in modern roads and railways and will demonstrate it through the 2011 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3183	I travel a lot around the country. I meet a lot of people who in different ways are involved in the initiative that is now taking place on the road. Projects that local people have been waiting for for decades will be realised. Let me just do two examples, one from Lesja this summer, where you open a passageway and a bike path. There was an older man who said to me, I am writing a diary. Today I'm going to write: this is the biggest day of my life. I've been waiting a long time for this road. Earlier this week there were nearly a thousand people in Eastfold, Krosby–Knapstad, 8 km new road. There was no warm pleasure, but it was a great pleasure to see all the happy faces because of that road. I'm so glad we have a national transport plan where we're going to spend 322 billion. kr the next 10 years - this year and nine more. There we have a notice of a stepping up and can therefore say, contrary to Arne Sortevik, that we are following what we have promised. Let me use as an example: On a simple stretch in our long-distance country, this time E6 from Oslo to Trondheim, Dal–Minnesund and the Creator’s crossing, there is a road construction to be completed in 2011, 20 km new quadruple road and new railway – a cooperation project that saves the State Road and the Railway Agency 400 million. kr to cooperate. The Kolomoen – Lillehammer: the last planned period, three- and four-field road Øyer – Thirteen started in 2010, is due to be completed in 2013, so we have moved up the Gudbrand valley – 13 km new road. Ringebu-Otta: road-hazardous and low average speed, estimated cost 4 billion. kr. The costs are growing. The regulation plan will be completed soon. Trondheimswegen from Oppdal to Støren: Work by a new route through Oppdal center starts in 2011, a project for several billion dollars. Trondheim Package, five major investment projects – one of these, Nidelv Bru-Grillstad. This will move traffic away from some of the busiest routes in Trondheim. Starting in 2009, it will be completed in 2013/14. On this stretch, we're investing tens of billions. Travel time will be reduced by approx. 30 minutes, and business saves significant transport costs. This is one of the corridors, and everyone that comes with it knows that I could take a lot of other examples. We bind the country better together. We make it more accessible and more environmentally friendly. The communication effort is not something we're going to do tomorrow or in a few years, we're going to do it now. The budget has increased by 50 pst. from 2005. The state road transport agency for 14 billion dollars. kr more in 2010 than in 2005. The railway works translated for 4 billion. kr more in 2010 than in 2005 – a total increase of 18 billion. kr from 2005 to 2010. I'm impressed by the potential both the Railway Agency and the State Road Service have shown to translate significant extra promises into concrete projects. When we're done with 2011, the estimate is that we've opened 70 miles with a new highway. Many railway projects have been opened, three new ones to be opened in 2011: Gift box, Barkåker – Tønsberg and Lysaker – Asker. We're not happy. We're not in the goal either. We're very impatient to move on. Default is still too bad. There's something everyone knows -- the more reason to be satisfied with the new 2.8 billion. kr for transport in 2011. There is room to start maybe as much as 20 new road projects, of the six race protection projects – all the projects it has been working on for many years. Now they're coming. What I am most pleased with, however, is that we prioritise operations and maintenance. I see that I don't have time to outsource it a lot, but I can then finally make up my mind: I think there's every reason to enjoy this budget. The ones who promise the most here today are the ones who over time have done the least in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3222	I'd like to start by saying that it's not strange if there are thousands of people coming out when you rarely open up in Norway. It's understandable that there's a lot of enthusiasm. So that's the line: the government's on the investment side on the road. The government is making waiting lists - it's paving the way for waiting lists. What's missing? Are there plans missing and leading to road projects being put on a waiting list? Is that money missing? Is there a lack of money that plagues this government – this is a government that has more money than any other government has ever had – or is there a combination of this that makes this government actually set its way on a waiting list?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3229	First to comment on the opening of a road project a rare time: in fact, as Minister of Transport, I have this year been invited to 15 larger and smaller projects, and it has been completed and opened by several. So to Sortevik's claim: The government has this four-year notice of escalating on the investment side. We've followed that up. We took a good hold last year in the budget, and we have written how we will now organise this with the promise in 2011, in 2012 and in 2013. In addition, we have over-filled what is called maintenance and operation, where it hides many important projects behind, both maintenance, operation and minor repairs, and not least traffic safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3236	The Council of State said in its speech that she is pleased that we have a national transport plan. So are we in the right. We would have been even happier if it had been followed up. What I especially think about then is road safety. I wonder why it is put out of money for only 22 km – as far as I remember – with the middle parts. It turns out that from 2000 to 2010, 1,050 people have died in collisions because of a lack of middle parts. That's a lot of human lives. Another thing is standard on the roads. Statistics now say that it is very often the standard on the road that leads to the accidents, and we need to focus on that. In a road safety seminar yesterday Lasse Fridstrom from TØI said that OPS projects in charge of operations over several years will have a clear positive impact on accident statistics. Why does the government not bet more on midpoints and on the use of OPS projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3245	Midwayers say National Transport Plan: 750 km with midway and midfield during the decade – of which 250 km with midpoints. The rest is then rumblefields and other measures. That's where we're going. Both the Right and the Advance Party have very often compared our road construction to that in Sweden. We go back 30 years, built the Swedish road wider, and therefore, we have to say, it is much easier for the Swedes to build a mint work now. For our part, we also often have to expand the width of the road. But we're in the process, and it's also being built mints coming years. In addition, in fact, the simplest road safety measure is completely free: if we run out of sleep, use a belt and keep the speed limit, we could have halved today's accidents, killed and badly damaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3253	I want to start this line by saying that I feel that the government with the budget presented shows the willingness to follow up the framework of the national transport plan for this period. I thought that was very good. But there was also another message about this state budget, and it was that the train revolution to come in 2012 was postponed. And not only was he postponed, it was not said how long he would be postponed. Now it's full of confusion. Do we want to reach these plans in 2013, in 2014? Or do we have to wait until 2015, or 2016? And we don't know what it takes to deliver what we've promised the train commuters in the Austland area. So my question is, what time will the train revolution that the red-greens have promised be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3260	Instead of introducing a new timetable in 2012, there is a gradual introduction in the budget. It means a gradual improvement. It's the way people want to mark an improvement already in 2011. Not least, work is now being done every day, both in terms of maintenance and renewal in the Oslo tunnel and the surrounding area, in the Oslo project. In addition, there is a lot of maintenance and renewal work going on. A lot of it was discovered that there was a need during the winter. Then the NSB ordered new trains. This means that they will gradually be used from the fall off. There will be new sections, i.e. an improvement. When would you like a complete new timetable? We've said that we're coming back with a time-fixing of the latest in the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3267	To a completely different theme: there are several communications in the budget, and one of the messages is that the government does not follow the recommendations of its own selection of independent roadside supervision. What's the reason why you don't want to give users the same level of safety through self-monitoring, which you actually have today for those who use the railway, and which you actually have today for those who use the aircraft. For both of these sectors, we have independent supervision that is separated and completely side by side with existing agencies and also operators. Nevertheless, the government chooses a solution where the department itself, the State Road Administration, should be its own oversight, and, as I started to say, go contrary to the attitude of the selection that the government itself has set down, and that was led by a former central party representative of the big business. What is the reason why the government wants to make users less secure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3272	It's not like there's no supervision of our roads today. For example, both on the national roads and on the county roads. State road safety services or others outside and provide security. If an accident occurs, it is the case that both the U.S. authorities, the State Road Service and the police are on the plate immediately. What's the big difference in relation to independent supervision or not is first of all that there was a multiple and a minority in this selection. So the Council was not as clear as Blackevik says here. Secondly, the majority argued that it was a matter of creating a supervision that would amount to between 50 and 100 million. kr. Instead, I received support from the government for a reorganization within the state road system, for a device that is directly under the direction of the road manager and is to supervise, and therefore use funds that we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3282	During this debate, the red-greens have designed an enemy picture of the accidents that will be experienced in the country during a government shift, perhaps three years in time. The Chair of the Financial Committee used most of its contributions this morning to talk about what could happen in 2013. It becomes more and more understandable that you get little energy to do with your own policies when you spend so much on others's. To illustrate this scarescreen, selected chapters are read in the Right Alternative Budget, in particular the tax chapter. If we're to maintain the welfare community and build it further, we need jobs. We need someone who invests in the workplace, and we need to stimulate them. I think the Minister of Finance's image today early was good. "It's work that carries well-being on its back," he said. That's a good picture. But when we hear, for example. The representative Heikki Holmås speaking here, it sounds as if jobs were being adopted in the municipalities, at least in the municipalities he is visiting. But it's not like that. That's how we need someone to invest. In order to get advice and to finance the public jobs to produce well-being, we need an ever-increasing increase in tax revenues that are being channelled into society and out again. Some people actually have to invest in these jobs. In the Right's Alternative Budget, we spend a lot of money on increasing the minimum deductions to get people to work, so that they choose it instead of passiveness and social security, and we reduce the wealth tax to stimulate both saving and investment in jobs. I am pleased that the centre party in a line exchange earlier today seems to agree with this, at least for a while on the way. It is to tackle the welfare problem on our backs, because it is necessary if we are to help drug users, increase child protection efforts, reduce health cows, increase all other social efforts and not least alleviate poverty. To this end, we need to stimulate investment. As regards poverty, two lines of action: the situation is now increasing poverty. The result of the work has been discouraging. It must be difficult for the parties concerned to see the poor in their eyes at the same time as they fight all the forces here in the Storting against everything that tastes of investment in the workplace in order to stimulate the creation of precisely the jobs that will carry the future well-being. I just read up in my place the financial committee's attitude to the labour and social budget, where, right, I think after memory, priority is to increase by about 200 million. kr, while the poor organisations are eaten off with a few lines and a few million from the red-green ones. So little about the agriculture that many have been concerned about here today, that the Norwegian agricultural future is threatened by a possible government shift. But the industry itself is not so concerned about a government change in 2013. They're worried now, because it's now the situation is difficult. I fully agree with Mr Lundtegen, who said in a debate the other day that we do not know where we are in Norwegian agricultural policy. That's absolutely right. You don't know where you're going, either. We are meeting this in many ways, especially with regard to investment. We have a significant investment package in our 500 million option. kr, additional depreciation, investment package, tax relief. That would be 5 billion. DKK over 10 years. Take the property tax on agricultural property, which is 1.3 billion. kr a year, one is far above the investment package that Norway's Bondelag wants for 13 billion. kr per year. That's the other side of our agricultural policy. But here you have chosen to look at the negative. The chapters that the government parties' representatives do not read, but which I hope the business community in Norway reads, are our proposals for increased investment in the road budget, collective investment and increased investment in environmental technologies and innovation, so that we can be in the first place in the new areas. That's why we're also increasing the effort for research once again, an area that seems to be an eternal star child for this government. For us, it's not just the welfare of today and tomorrow; it's the welfare of the future we're talking about. We need to make it easier to start, operate and invest in businesses in Norway. We have to keep private capital, and we have to attract new private capital to do what the Minister of Finance said today morning: carry the well-being on our backs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3295	It is not without reason that the Workers' Party's programme is entitled 'Crease and Parts'. We recognise through the State budget that our main and largest share of national wealth is located in people's heads and hands. Nor is it irrelevant that we recognize once again the principle that the values contained in our vast natural resources are the property of the people. Unemployment is shaking in these days the world. Norway is a country of few exceptions where unemployment is low and employment is high. We have good productivity, and we have good profitability. It is attractive to do business in Norway. The right-hand side's attempt to reject this fact in this debate falls for its own unfairness. The proportion of persons employed has increased from 75 pst. up to 76.5 pst. under the red-green government. 253,000 new jobs are created — 190 000 of them in the private sector — between 2004 and 2009. Another expression of this is that we are ranked high, among other things. as No 8 on the World Bank's Doing Business list. In addition, we are ranked to be one of the world's best countries to live in. High welfare production, a good safety net and a gender perspective ensuring high female participation in the labour market are so undoubtedly the best basis for high and stable value creation, which in turn ensures high employment and low unemployment. In other words, we are in a unique position. In total, this is anchored in the Norwegian model with mutual rights between employees, employers and authorities. If you agree with the Norwegian model, you must have an understanding of the contexts. To provide a better framework for business, it must not be at the expense of workers' rights or welfare schemes. That's this right-hand side has misunderstood. The right-hand side does not talk so often about its love and belief that the success of industrial policy begins with temporary employment, local wage fixing or local regulation of overtime regulations any longer. It is therefore worth remembering that in any case this is a fundamental ideological idea that is rooted in the hearts of the right parties. We know that the right-wing parties will attack employees to attract employers. Of course, taxes to the richest, changes in health wages and the privatisation of welfare tasks and the school community reinforce this. Good social regulation, safe and good social arrangements and a well-structured welfare model are, of course, the opposite and important basis for ensuring the Norwegian model, ensuring an important support for predictability and the basis for value creation. Erna Solberg said in today's debate that we don't have a perspective on what we're going to live on in the future. The best description of such a statement is a record bomb. There can be no better basis for future value creation than to ensure that there is as much work as possible. That's good care of national wealth. One of the key prerequisites for attracting investment is to invest as we do — in research, innovation and knowledge within the framework of a stable and predictable economic policy. We can read and register. Yes, the Right's fiscal figure determines this. Then there is reason to ask the question: Has the Right Forgotten Business in the Love of the Advancement Party? There can be no more industrially hostile than the right now also choosing to legitimise a draft budget which will undoubtedly affect business. Increase in the use of oil money of 12 months. kr, proposed by the Progress Party, is so definitely not in the context of economically responsible policy. Increased interest rates and increased interest rates are broadly probable. Those who contribute to legitimising this may not allow themselves to use the word ‘professional’ in their own right. It is the opposite of the policies of the Right and the Progressive Party that provide the real basis for industry to have very good opportunities in this country. When the opposition today expresses its anger over our homage to the red-green government, I think it's wise to stop up and look out of the window and acknowledge the situation the country is actually in. It has to be allowed to say that when you look around the world with both legs planted on Norwegian soil, you might have to be locked in a big office to not realize that the situation provides the basis for a certain degree of enthusiasm and belief in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3316	Unlike the government parties' use of their time to criticize what the Progress Party and the Right are doing, I intend to spend my time telling you what the Progress Party really means. The Progress Party is of the opinion that one of the most important aspects of foreign policy is committed international cooperation aimed at international decoupling, lasting peace and economic growth through trade and investment. The party of progress is criticised for the boring fact that we are cutting the aid budget. Yes, and do you know why we cut the aid budget? Yes, I'll tell you. Unlike many of the other parties here in Stortinget, we have faith in man. We don't want to make them victims. Nor do we want to make them helpless and unable to take care of themselves. We have, as I said, faith in the individual, and if we give the individual the opportunity to grow and progress, and we think that most people accept it. Assistance provided by Norway through budget support, of which individual residents in some countries have no pleasure, but which goes straight into the pockets of the rulers and their friends, we will not be helping – which basically tells us that Norway has to make very strict demands for assistance. For decades after decades, we have given assistance to countries that are still on the ground either through bilateral agreements or through aid organisations. Life expectancy has increased in some of these countries. What does it do when you still do not have quality of life and dignity? This is where the policies of the Progress Party differ from those of the rest. We want a change from what doesn't work to what can actually give people in developing countries an opportunity to improve their lives and improve their quality of life. So how do we do that? Well, we use tools and tools that, with simple grips, can actually immediately make a difference – among other things. by building up customs and trade barriers, by deleting illegitimate debts, by ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to own land, and by prioritising health and education. We have faith in free, open markets, and we also have faith that there are dynamic effects that can lift billions out of poverty. Look at China. Then, instead of uncritically cashing in to the rulers, we want to remove customs duties on goods from all developing countries. We also want, and this is new in the year, to set up a fund, or a trading facility, as it is called in the budget, to help stimulate the development of business, innovation and trade. Then the money reaches out to the people, who are more than willing to contribute themselves to getting a better life and at the same time helping others to get it. I also want to focus on corruption, abuse of power and violations of human rights. Several of our proposals are about focusing on and tightening up the control of corruption. Many of the countries to which Norway is contributing are at the bottom of the Transparency International corruption index list, which in itself should have contributed to the call of all alarm clocks. When asked to the Council of State, Norway contributes 34.8 million. kr to corruption measures, we are not further impressed. So we propose that the government draw up a blacklist of those aid organisations that do not take corruption seriously. We have recently also read in the media that, among other things, countries such as Ethiopia and Indonesia are threats and abuses of power by the authorities are a problem, where authorities refuse to provide people with assistance for food and property if the population is not loyal to the current government. I have asked the Minister for the Environment and Development questions about this too, as late as a month ago. The answer I received was not very uplifting. In their reply, the Council of State says that they have looked at the issue and have not found any indications that the authorities are systematically misusing assistance. When there is no political opposition, and people don't get food if they're not loyal to the government, it's not surprising that you don't get honest answers when you ask people either. The Progress Party is concerned, a number of aid countries obviously violate human rights and keep their population down. The Progress Party wants the world to become a better place to live for everyone and not just for the rulers and the political elite. That is why we are changing the arrangements for the aid budget, to reach out to people and give them a meaningful and dignified life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3342	It is not bad work ethics if you have MS or spinal fractures and cannot get up in the morning. It is also not bad work ethics if you are disabled and apply for a job after work, but no employer dares to take you because they are afraid that you should not do your job properly, because they do not look at what you have in your head, but how you get there, or because they are too afraid that it will cost you money to arrange for you at work. Being outside doesn't mean being outside the community, but too many people can actually feel that way. It is important to say this, and it is important to say it both in this room and to others in the public debate, whether they are on the right or on the left of the policy, that there is no way of reducing the growing exclusion in Norway to a question of labour standards. Every year, the Labour Party and the Right have worked together on a policy line. Two basic things have been agreed. The first thing that has been agreed is that there should be basic good and decent welfare arrangements for those who are too sick to work. There is no discussion. They have to be decent, and they have to be good. At the same time, you have agreed that work effort has to pay off, because we know that if that's how you risk losing money on going from a social benefit to going to work, then there's fewer who do. That's not so awfully nice. I guess there's a lot of people that they're going to be left with unless they're in the wallet every month by choosing to work more. That's what I think with all due respect is to demand too much. I am quite sure that both the Prime Minister and the Council of State agree with the Right and me in that approach. Yes, in fact, I hear both the Council of State and the Prime Minister say it all the time. The problem is that the government doesn't agree with itself. Jens Stoltenberg is from Mars, SV is from Venus in this debate. What is the government's response to these challenges? It's completely impossible to get hold of. Government parties say something one day – something quite different the other day. One day, the Labour Party website emphasizes that it is not possible to get anyone who is unemployed today, to work again, because if you are unemployed, you are by definition ill. The first thing you ignore is that almost 100,000 of those who are out of work say they can and will work more. But not only that, it is said to be contrary to the explicit policies of the Council of State and the Prime Minister, namely that it is possible, by facilitating, by stimulating, to transfer more people from under-employment to the labour market. The last contribution from the government was a complete chaos situation around the new disability pension, with overburdened leaks from someone who has made very many people around Norway right now sit and are uncertain whether they are going to have a proper and fundamental life span over the years to come. It was that a few days ago we could hear that a lonely young minimum pensioner risked losing NOK 35,000 almost overnight. If he did not sit up and listen to the evening news as well, the impression was left. The Government, the Workers' Party, is fundamentally divided about the working line itself and fundamentally divided about the way forward in welfare policy. And it's pretty serious, because it's our biggest welfare challenge. The drop-outs are increasing, the hospital queues are increasing. We have a larger proportion of young people who are disabled than ever before. We have the greatest increase in miscarriage among young people. We have several young social clients. We have absolutely zero progress in getting more people with needs for organization into the labour market. Jens Stoltenberg said earlier today that it was over to stand in the hands of Norway. I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to take a trip to a Nav office and ask all those who are standing waiting for trial, to fulfill the most fundamental rights of our welfare society, if they feel a bit better than those who stood by some years ago. In addition, with the same targets as in 2005, we have also had several poor people in Norway, and the differences are increasing. That year, differences fell in Norway, due to a financial crisis, not red-green policy. The right has proposed a guarantee of organisation, we have proposed tax reliefs where it is most appropriate, for those with low and medium incomes, we have proposed better follow-up and a massive commitment to rehabilitation. Parts of the Workers' Party agree with us, the other part runs in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3364	The tax breaks to the Right help at least finely the group Torbjørn Røe Isaksen was so busy in the previous article. I need to start my post with a visit outside the country. Greece received EU financial emergency aid earlier in the autumn. Ireland has now also received help — with conditions. And today the speculations about Spain, Portugal and Belgium will make the list even further. Norway has been very successful through the financial crisis, not least through a good and appropriate dosed economic policy. We can discuss heart matters until we become yellow and blue here in the Chamber, but if it is not the order of economic policy, it disappears the space of action and all good wishes as dew for the sun. Next year's government budget will continue on this solid political course. Although this budget is tighter than in many years, we are betting in some important areas. There are in particular two groups I want to draw out, which will benefit from it, and it is the oldest ones who need care and care, and young people who are struggling at school and at risk of dropping out. The new GIV initiative will strengthen the fight against non-response by 175 million. kr. We will spend that money on more practical training, closer follow-up of individual and better counselling services, more apprenticeships and more placement in the workplace. Of course, secondary schools have a key role to play in this work. It's in these schools the apostates go. The secondary schools are owned and operated by the counties. Then it is alarming that the Right Party and the Advance Party will cut the budgets of the school owners by 500 million. kr. Such a cut, to be taken from January, will hit the students, no matter how they turn it around. The students, and especially those who have left school but who are leaning in again, point to better adult contact and good relations with the teacher as a major reason why they get it back to school. The Progress Party spends some of the saved money on increased grants to private schools. It's weird to cut half a billion to the public school, where 98 pst. By the students go, while they can afford to send 70 million. kr for private schools with 2 pst. by the students. I'm aware that the Progress Party has more faith in private solutions than municipal ones, but I don't think it's nice to push the students in front of it in an ideological fight against the county council. And if we are to take seriously the alternative budget of the Advance Party – and we are doing so in the Workers' Party – this means less follow-up of the students, less counselling and less money for buying timely equipment, to mention something. We know that both the Right Party and the Advance Party want entries from several private schools. And both parties want back the old law of high school, which would open up to thousands of new student places in private and commercial schools. Such a development does not make Norwegian school any better. It also does not strengthen the fight against non-response or help the apostates to be mentioned. All the evidence suggests that knowledge and competence are becoming an even more important factor in the future of work, and then we need to make sure that as much success as possible in school and that through education they can realize themselves and get a good life. Measures to achieve this involve a strong public sector. This means that we must have income into the community through taxes and taxes rather than high excesses in health and education, as we see in many other countries. That means we have to have order in the economy. Two years ago, the term ‘too little, too late’ was repeated by the opposition to the boring. They said we didn't take action against the financial crisis. Well, now we stand here two years later, and the measures took very well. It was the opposition that was wrong. And if anyone's in doubt, they can take a look at the international news picture. I am reasonably sure that this budget would embrace any European Parliament with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3388	It's getting so late in the evening that it's almost tempting to start summarizing the debate, but at least I can sum up so far, because I've followed the debate with interest. And there are two things that have been repeaters. One is a repetition of each financial debate since 2005: what the government is going to do, even in relation to the working line, without having the concrete results to point to, without having the concrete results in relation to poverty reduction, which is another point that has gone back. But the point on which perhaps the most time has been spent in this debate from the red-green, is who is going to replace them in 2013. It must mean that you have resigned and recognize that you will not get the voter’s trust in 2013. You should have had a government that had a completely different offensive in the debate and discussed more what you can do to maintain power. But I am pleased to note that the Progress Party and the Right, and possibly more, will take over the government offices in 2013. The progress party agrees with much of what the government rhetorically says about the line of work. But at the same time, it's not entirely in touch. What has happened since the red-greens took over power in 2005? Well, we've got 169 100 new unemployed people, i.e. people who've left the labour market and over to permanent disability benefits, i.e. passive benefits. From 2008 to 2009, we have had an increase of 8 000 new social welfare recipients. It does not exactly testify to a massive effort to solve the problem of poverty. In fact, the party of progress believes that fewer people can be dismayed. This means that you also need to have a much better follow-up policy. This means that we need to bet on labour market measures in a much broader and better way than the government party puts up. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we have also proposed 9 100 more seats, and all those who were at the hearing of the Labour and Social Committee, said that this is an important tool to prevent more people from becoming dissatisfied. So here it is shown that the Progress Party also has the political solutions. I record that SV has given up the fight against poverty. We all remember that party leader Kristin Halvorsen in SV at the 2005 elections went out and said to remove poverty with a pen stroke. But I also register an interview in Nettavisen on November 11th this year with her Crown Prince, Audun Lysbakken, under the heading «Giving up poverty eradication». We've had a triple of children living in poverty – we've had 70,000 children, and not enough of that: we've also – as I said – got 8 000 more social welfare recipients. That is why the Progress Party is proposing 200 million. to combat poverty through voluntary teams and associations, non-profit organisations, such as, among other things. The Church's Bymition, the Red Cross and the Blue Cross. We know all their good offers for holiday arrangements and activities, among others. to poor children. This summer they had to say no to 2/3 of the applicants – so they had to say no to two out of three applicants because they had no money. The Progress Party wants to make it easier for you to get more of these offers. There is a call for a comprehensive housing social policy of the poor. I visited the Marita Foundation's accommodation yesterday, which is an excellent offer that shows how the non-profit organisations make sure to get a better bet and provide more disadvantaged young people with a housing offer. Finally, I would like to refer to the posts of the representative of Trettebergstuen, where she indicated that the Progress Party proposed a dramatic cut in the health pay scheme. It had to mean that it got worse for those who were ill, unless benefits were lower. With respect to reporting: I read in Today’s Business today that new figures – estimates from the Ministry of Finance – show a reduction in sick pay by 3 billion. kr. Does this mean that the government’s policy has led to lower benefits for the sick? No, no, no. The Progress Party spent last year in its alternative budget up to a reduction of 2.6 billion. kr, and were skin-stained. It turns out that our calculations were much more accurate than the government's.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3401	Several of today's representatives, including Solhjell and Pedersen, have today tried to interpret the Right Programme. In line with the Right's ambition to help those who need the most, I will now clarify some points: The core of the Right Policy is freedom and social responsibility, diversity and the spread of power, tradition and administrative responsibility. At a time when Community-state equality marks will be right-wing memories of everything that is not or should be politics. In a time when there are similarities between freedom and selfish self-expression, Right memory of values such as responsibility and propriety. At a time when there are similarities between higher taxes and better well-being, Right should remember that values must be created before they are distributed, and that being able to live on their own income is the most important form of well-being we have. Right fighters for a society where different people have equal opportunities to succeed, where creating their own future meets with reward rather than punishment, where the weakest of us meet with dignity, help and an extended hand, where freedom and rights find their companion in responsibility and duties. The main objective of the welfare state must be to do more for those who need our common help most. Martin Kolberg called the property tax «a little thing» earlier this evening. I agree. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that government parties spend so much time talking about how to make the rich poorer, when it must be much more important to talk about how to make the poor richer. The government is more concerned that parents with two incomes are getting cheaper kindergartens, less concerned about doing something about the fact that the proportion of children living in poverty is tripled by government SV, more concerned about public welfare services, less concerned about their being good. Of course, the government believes that the welfare offer should be good enough. However, the result of government policy is that it is neither good nor enough. More than 4,000 people are waiting for drug treatment in Norway. It is a line of shame – a line of shame that hits the most vulnerable among us. It is unsolvable, unsocial and unfair, and it must be the responsibility of the incumbent government. The government is sacrificing individuals and families on the altar of ideology. 70,000 more are in hospital queues now than when the government took over in 2005. For the red-green government, it is obviously better to stand in public queue than to get private treatment paid by the public. If we want to build society on values other than those we can buy for money, we need to expand the policy-free space in society, trust that people will and can take responsibility themselves, and give them back more freedom of action. Only in a society where the individual matters, we really get solidarity and consideration for each other. The grace of fraternity obviously knows no limits to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen. He is boldly attacking the Right Environmental Policy. Let me remind him of the following: No one is betting more on research and development of environmental technologies than on the Right. No more bets on forest protection than Right – we increase forest protection in Norway by almost 25 pst. in our alternative state budget. We're increasing the appropriations for the cleaning up of toxins. We are promoting proposals in this room to promote energy efficiency, environmental technologies, conversion to environmentally friendly fuels, bets on green jobs across the country, stable and predictable framework conditions – to mention something. They are voted down routinely, without any alternative proposals from the government parties. Yes, from the government's side, it's even going in the wrong direction. This government is the world champion of climate and environmental rhetoric. The results are barely mediocre. At the pace of government, it will be almost impossible to meet the ambitions of the climate agreement. Then it might be more opportune to build a strawman around the politics of others than to talk about the results of his own. Let me remind the representative Serigstad Valen that our descendants will not measure us by our will to promise, but by our ability to deliver. Then words are no substitute for action. There has been a lot of talk about taxes today – also from the representative Serigstad Valen. Then it might be worth recalling Kristin Halvorsen's words from 2004, when she said to Nettavisen: «SV cannot tax». It's rare I agree so much with Kristin Halvorsen. So it was the representative of Terje Aasland who recommended that we look out of the window. Well, then I can just say that it looks dark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3429	What has been characteristic of Norwegian policy since World War II has been that when it comes to the major issues, the important reforms, it has been possible to have a majority in this Chamber — often a broad majority. There are many examples that the Workers' Party has drawn up the policies of the big lines, and where the center and also the Right has gradually given its assent to this. Policy has been based on three elements: an economic policy with an open and well-balanced economy, and where everyone contributes according to the capacity of the community, a welfare policy in which everyone should be guaranteed inclusion, health and education security and minimum solutions at the bottom if one falls outside the labour market, and a labour policy based on tripartite cooperation, which has given us a central, predictable over-negotiable wage development with relatively low strike rates – a cooperation that has also enabled us to carry out heavy reforms, and which can play a role through moderation over a short period of time. This is out in the world known historically as the Nordic model. The outcome of this policy has led to relatively small differences and a stable, high-growth society. We are now in danger of breaking this even in Norway. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party are now a real government option alone gives us the potential danger that we can now get a government that is politically ideologically located to the right of the Right Party. Why do I call it a danger? Well, if you go into the alternative state budgets of the two parties and analyze what they actually do most, the picture is quite scary. If you take the thought experiment of seeing that the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed on a government budget today in the alternative budgets, their tax cuts are on a medium-sized gold road of about 20 billion. kr. Then we assume that both give and take the same amount in the negotiations. But let me now say that the Right Wins out a little bit extra, because they've given guarantees. Then maybe the tax cut is 17 billion. kr. How will this affect the future of Norway? Well, the first year will be able to finance this with its cuts in aid, agricultural furrowing and the reduction of public services. Now, I'd like to start by saying that aid shots you can see here are both immoral and irreproachable. The consequences of agricultural rage will mean something more than just for the individual farmer. It will also hit hard in the food and beverage industry and travel, and this will mean a change in the pattern of residence in the nation. In my mind, at least it's not like there's a whole bunch of people going around in the public sector without them doing any good for themselves. But what about year two in such a scenario – what are they going to cut to maintain the tax havens they have introduced? You can't rage an industry more than once, and you can't quit people more than once. The worst part is that you have 17 billion. kr is not even close to fulfilling its own promises when it comes to tax relief. If you take the two game programmes and look at what the golden middle path is there, it's about. 54 B.C.E. Tax bill – that is, three times as much as you can see from the robberies with the cut of 17 billion. the first year. This is what's at the heart of what I fear, and that could potentially give us a whole new Norway. Our Prime Minister has previously given an image of the difference between a red-green government and a centre-right government. It's like seeing two boats laying out from the berth with a slightly different course. At first, the difference isn't that big, but eventually it gets bigger and bigger. This is a picture I think is descriptive. This is also the reason why, when taken over by civil governments in the past, some of the effects of such a government have been remedied. Here I can mention a run-down municipal economy and a weakened work environment law as the freshest examples. But if we imagine an image with a majority government on the right of the party on the right, the picture becomes completely different. Instead, you have to consider two speedboats that run in a rather different direction, and how the differences are big at once, and increase gradually. This scenario will create a whole new Norway, where it is no longer ‘do your duty, demand your right’ that applies, but rather if you can afford to buy minimum solutions, if you can afford to buy security for you and yours, and where the differences in society will become radically greater. Such a society can easily be created in four years by a majority from the Right and the Advance Party, but it is not possible to reverse it afterwards. It has taken us generations to build the country of the world's best country to live in, and no more than four years is needed with a government that conducts such irresponsible and irresponsible distribution policies as are seen in the alternative state budgets of the Right and the Advance Party, to totally change the Norway in which many of us are happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3455	The point of progress is that Norway should become an even better country to live in. Then it is important to ensure that the basic welfare services in the municipalities can be provided to those who need these services, when they need them. This is not the case today, and therefore the Progress Party is in favour of a state funding of welfare services. There is a need-driven government funding that triggers, if necessary, funding. This means that those who need these services get them, regardless of whether they live in a rich municipality or a poor municipality, and regardless of their priorities. But we realize that in this period, we are not getting an impact on that principle, and until we get an impact, we will, of course, be basing ourselves on today's budgetary system and the challenges it presents. The red-green socialist parties claim that this budget leads to a strengthened local economy. Now, the feedback we get from Kommune-Noreg shows that one in most municipalities unfortunately does not experience it that way. There is little evidence of a strong local economy from the local authorities. There is no doubt that municipalities will receive more dollars for the next year than they will this year – that they will receive additional transfers. But there are also additional tasks in municipalities, there are stricter requirements in Municipality-Noreg for the services to be provided, and there are increasing expectations in the population that also require resources. And we're going to be more people in this country. More people cost more money. We also have an ageing population in the municipality of Norway. When we take into account all these factors, there is no strengthened municipal economy within the State budget for 2011. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes more money to municipalities. We want to increase free resources to the municipalities by 1 billion. kr. We want to increase the operational resources for care for the elderly by 2 billion. kr and eartag them, and we also want to increase the funding of resource-requiring services by 0.7 billion. $700 million. kr. In the case of care for the elderly, it needs to be more than just an election campaign. It has to be done. That is why we are in favour of these ear-marked resources for operation, but we also want to strengthen the funding of health care centres and housing. We want to increase the 2011 window from 2,000 to 3,000 places, and we also want to increase the ceiling from NOK 890,000 per hospital place to SEK 1.3 million. kr per place. That's what we think we're going to do to speed things up. We also want to open up so that private individuals can participate in this development. We have also seen money for existing dwellings to be adapted, so that the elderly, if they want to, can be living at home any longer. Resource-writing services are something that the government has made the financing of for the current year's budget worse by reducing the part to be financed by the government from 85 pst. the point of entry before a government funding has increased much more than the rise in wages and prices. This is what we want to reverse. We want it to be 85 pst. State funding, and we want to reduce the entry point to NOK 800000, from NOK 895000. We also want to escalate this further down to NOK 400,000 over a few years. We've seen that out of 700 million. kr to, and we are sure that will provide a better supply for this group. In addition to getting more money from municipalities, the promotion team is aware that it is also necessary to enable municipalities to get the most out of the money they receive. It does one by launching competition and healthy internal competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3470	Culture-Norway has experienced the contribution of time to culture after the red-green government took over in 2005. With the 2011 budget, the increase exceeds 3 billion. kr. For the cultural sector, there is a lot of money, a lot of money. When we know that in 2005, we spent five billion dollars. kr on culture, and in 2011 we will spend over 8 billion. kr, we get a good picture of what major changes have happened in Kultur-Norway. Film is a good example of this. We've reached the target of 25 long films this year. At the moment, eleven Norwegian films are going through the cinemas in Oslo. You could say it's not just about quantity, but also about quality, for the last few years a number of Norwegian films have been awarded prizes at international film festivals. It's not least because of the efforts the government has made on film, that we've been able to get so many long films and so much quality. Norwegian films are now being created and produced throughout the country, and we have succeeded in establishing a number of film environments around Norway. Film is a growing cultural industry, both in Målselv, in Lillehammer and in Stavanger. The voluntary sector is the major budget winner of the 2011 cultural budget. Through a sharp increase in the VAT compensation scheme, the voluntary sector is increasing many times more than the other actors in the field of culture. This VAT compensation represents the largest effort ever made on the voluntary nature of the State budget. In addition, when the government has already made changes to the key, to the state budget and to measures to reduce red tape and tax burden, it is concluded that no government has ever invested so much in voluntary Norway. We know that more and more children are being helped by child protection. In 2009, over 46 000 children received child protection assistance. That's an increase of over 46 pst. in 10 years. Nevertheless, many children do not receive help. The county's supervision shows that many child protection cases are being blamed for lack of resources. We're about to have a new type of folder children. That's why we're getting the biggest effort in municipal child protection since the 1990s. The State budget for 2011 adds up to 400 new posts in municipal child protection. These are earmarked to make sure that the money is spent on the children who need help. In the first place, there will be more employees in the protection of children. They shall ensure that the messages of concern are followed up and that the children in need of assistance are followed up. We're accused by the right-hand side of having allergies to everything that's private, and to furious private child protection institutions. There is a strange accusation in a situation where more than half of all child protection institutions are on private hands and where the state has reduced the use of institutional facilities both in the state and in the private sector. In the 2011 budget, the Progress Party proposes a cut in the State Child Protection of 0.5 billion. kr. Right cutters not as much, but both budgets will lead to massive closure of state child protection institutions. In the worst case, it will mean the closure of half of all state child protection institutions. This is really an ideological crusade against everything that smells stately. But the worst thing is that this will affect the children, who will have to wait a long time before they get the care they need. Norwegian young children’s parents have an freedom of choice that is unique on an international scale. We are not forced to choose away children if we want to be economically active. We can actually say yes to both. The parental leave scheme, in the form of its existence, gives us a great freedom of choice. And through the budget, the government makes this arrangement even better. We ensure that even fathers get access to this great scheme by extending the feather quota to a whole of twelve weeks. And with the birth rate, we're wiping out the old sex role patterns that have restricted fathers' freedom of choice. It has never been the right side that has given children's parents increased freedom of choice. It's the left-hand parts and the intermediate parts that have provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3493	The socialist agricultural policy system has led to a dramatic decline in Norwegian agriculture by halving the number of producers in 20 years, poor income trends in industry, and as many as 34 000 farms today are empty. Agriculture policy deprives food producers of most of their freedom to do business and the content of their ownership, and makes development opportunities scarce. Recruitment to an industry that is so regulated by a comprehensive bureaucracy is, of course, difficult. In order to reverse this persistently negative trend in agriculture, fundamental changes are necessary to allow farmers to decide more on their own production and to reduce the influence of politicians and bureaucrats. Less agricultural rules and regulations will mean more development and income opportunities than the current regulatory framework conditions for business transfers provide. It will eventually become a freer world trade also for food products, and then it is important to use this time to ensure that Norwegian agriculture has a framework that is adapted to a new trading system. Free trade also in agricultural products will result in increased competition in the Norwegian food market, which will benefit the consumer. It will also involve export opportunities and new market and income opportunities for Norwegian food producers. While the government is most concerned about sticking to the old-fashioned regulatory policy that is not working, the Progress Party believes that we need to seize the opportunities that free trade provides for agriculture. We have recently been able to read the doctoral thesis on Norwegian agriculture by Ivar Gaasland. He believes that food security and the cultural landscape can be maintained with a cut of over 12 billion. kr. The cut he proposes is NOK 2,500 per year. is based in Norway. It's about as much as the government spends on running police, law enforcement and justice in Norway. Today’s agricultural aid is designed to produce more than consumers need, for example: milk. The surplus milk is used to produce cheese and butter exported abroad at a lower price than the price of the products in Norway. In this way, Norwegian taxpayers and milk drinkers — often families with young children — contribute to sponsoring the consumption of cheap Jarlsberg cheese by foreigners. This is a very expensive way to keep up the activity in agriculture. We get a transfer of funds from Norwegian citizens to foreign cheese specialists who cost each family $800 per. year – or Norwegian payers 1 billion Norwegian kronor. More and more researchers have recently agreed with the Agriculture Policy of the Progress Party. I have been to a seminar today in the State Agriculture Administration, which includes: researcher at the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research – NILF – Ivar Pettersen, said that the doctoral thesis to Ivar Gaasland makes sense. He also called for changes in agriculture and for research to be started on the rationality of agricultural policy. Pettersen also said that those who claim that the policy of the Progress Party will upset agriculture are wrong. It's just to record that researchers in Norway are on a collision course with the government. The National Audit Office is also critical of government policy, saying that there is a need for increased targeting and more risk-based control of grants, and that the difference between the actual situation and objectives is too small to guide the design and distribution of grants. The national audit points out the same year after year, namely a lack of control-command. You can also read that you pay a large amount without presenting the invoice or documentation of the payments. Although the industry itself pays dearly for current policies through extensive restrictions and red tape, consumers have to take the bill. The paradox is that consumers are not represented in the negotiating system but are presented only to the bill in terms of high prices and taxes. Today's situation is that agriculture gets over 20 billion. kr transferred over the State budget. In addition, we have a price level of products that are far above our neighbouring countries. Compared to Sweden and Denmark, the price of meat and dairy products is over 50 pst. higher in Norway. The government has also introduced a milk toll on the fading 388 pst. The consumer is presented at a special price level and at a lower product range as a result of the agricultural policy system. The result of the agricultural policy pursued shows that it serves neither consumers nor producers. The Progress Party believes that it is time to clean up the agricultural policy management system, where producers are given the opportunity to exploit production opportunities on the farm and where the consumer is given more power at the expense of red tape. The agricultural agreement has played its part and should be terminated; no one should have a separate right to negotiate on the state budget. The Progress Party believes that a process of modernising the agricultural industry’s framework conditions needs to be launched quickly to develop a robust industry that can offensively face international competition when the customs barriers fall. An agricultural policy characterised by less political governance and more closeness to the consumer's needs will create new opportunities for Norwegian food producers and people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3523	The New Year's dates for the Prime Minister must be listened to. We would like to believe that what the Prime Minister chooses to emphasize in these speeches is, in fact, what the country's foremost politician believes is the most important thing in the year in which it enters. So in the New Year's Eve for this year, there was knowledge. ‘Knowledge trumps everything’ was the message that was repeated perhaps as much as 20 times during the speech. After all, when the government's proposal for a government budget came, it was supposed to believe that investing in knowledge would permeate the budget, as high as the Prime Minister flagged it in the new year. But now we know that it didn't. For the first time in ten years – ten years – the important research budget shows a real decline. Even in the year that became most famous for the then knowledge minister Øystein Djupedal's famous rest cutting, 2007, it was much better. NIFU STEP, which has analysed the research budgets over several years, says that this is the weakest budget in this decade. And so this budget is presented in the same year that the Prime Minister has put knowledge at the top of the agenda in his New Year's speech. Understand the one who can. We don't really need new dates or other celebrations to realize that investment in knowledge is of great importance. Norway is a small high-cost country on the outskirts of the world. Then it makes sense that in order to sell what we produce, we need to compensate for better products and smarter solutions than our competitors can offer. Yeah, that's actually the only option Norway has. And the keywords of research, development and innovation are what's going to do to make it. This, of course, is not only true for Norway, but it is particularly important in Norway right now because we are facing quite major changes in our export-oriented business in a few years. The reason lies in the following question: What are we going to live on after the oil? The answer is as simple as it is demanding: we need to develop new knowledge to create more innovation to create new jobs to replace those who will be lost. So it starts with new knowledge, and it's the research that's going to give us. Research expenditure today is investment in the solutions and products we're going to live on tomorrow. The problem is, it can take a long time. So now we have to bet if we're going to be able to maintain value creation, living standards and well-being in 30-40 years. Fortunately, we now have a unique economic space to deal with this, but Norway needs to give priority to using the space for action to focus on research and other growth-promoting measures. But the government does not, the government weakens the research effort when it should have been strengthened. It's completely incomprehensible. The right has a clear commitment to research in its alternative state budget. Six hundred million. kr more than the government is using on this field, and 15 billion. more to research funds. Much of this is being done to strengthen research in the business world because Norway is the worst compared to other countries. Unfortunately, Norway is coming out poorly almost regardless of how we compare. Norway is already the worst in the Nordic region and below the average in Europe for research. The government budget does not at all respond to these challenges. Other countries around us, the ones we compete with first and foremost, bet heavily and ambitiously even though they don't have the economic space we have. The government’s priority is incomprehensible, and the Prime Minister’s ‘knowledge trumps everything’ speech appears, unfortunately, more and more empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3540	The government's proposal to the state budget means that for the next year, we will still take a big boost for the road and rail networks in the country. It is particularly gratifying that we now get a special bet on operation and maintenance. As an old spokesman, I know that cutting strings and opening new plants are very hard. Nevertheless, it is at least equally important to take care of the infrastructure that we already have, both to improve road safety and to ensure better access and quality of life for people travelling on the road and on the road. The proposed budget will put an end to the downturn on our roads, and it will start the work of re-entering the railway. The bet on the road and the track is with its 29.4 billion. kr at a high level of history. With this, the permissions have increased by about 44 pst. since 2005, and to the railway with about 67 pst. Road maintenance is increased by a total of 60 pst. This allows large needs to be met as a result of accumulated delays in maintenance, cost increases, traffic increases and new road installations. The licence will also provide 1000 km with a new asphalt cover on national roads. Near seven billion. as a government commitment to road investment will provide a great deal of new impetus and will contribute to safer, better-developed and reduced travel time for many. And since we don't have toll allergy, these billions add up to three to four billion. Tolls. This will build a new road for over 10 billion. kr in 2011. Government's goal of 1 billion. kr annually for racial protection for the period 2010–2019 will be followed up in this budget. Thus, the old requirement for national racial protection teams has been met for the first time. The government's investment in racial protection increases the quality of life of people who are busied along racial lines, and it means more efficiency for business. It is crucial that we get more reliable train traffic. It is therefore gratifying that the government is continuing with the 2005 rail budget lift. The 2011 proposal amounts to 11.5 billion. kr for railway applications. Never before has it been used again. With nearly 5 bn. kr for operation and maintenance, the government goes beyond what is foreseen in the NTP framework and ensures a rapid and necessary improvement of the rail system in Norway. The high level of investment in our government makes the double-track Lysaker-Asker open next year. We also have good progress on several other major railway projects. There is considerable investment in public transport and other environmental measures in the government’s budget proposal. The reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in cities has increased by about 30 pst. to 431 million. kr. Cities that invest in good public transport and car-restrictive measures such as car pricing or rush-time charges will benefit from this incentive scheme. This causes those who actually have to run. the transport of goods, obtains better space and arrives in a timely manner. With this budget, electric cars will still have access to the public fields, can pass through free of charge by bombing, have free public parking and free transport by national road ferries. There is also an additional deduction from the single fee for cars with emissions below 50 grams of CO2 per km, and a further half of the user fee for biodiesel is charged. This draft budget also improves the conditions for maritime transport, including: by reducing coastal charges by 29,2 million. kr, and the proceeds for the development of ports and fairways and the strengthening of oil protection will be increased by 90 million. kr. Being a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications means a constant encounter with people who are impatient and who strongly believe that more should be done much faster. It is very inspiring to be in a policy area with this kind of pressure, and it keeps us looking for the best solutions. It is good to be able to work within a field that is characterised by many now as a budget winner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3564	After today's debate, I will actually praise the Prime Minister, who finally spoke in his speech about the government's budget instead of attacking the Advance Party's budget. For the case of black paint that we have heard today from the red-green ones, one should look for a long time. It would be thought that Norway was going to go down in 2013 if there were a civil majority and the Right and the Advance Party came into government. Fortunately, the people of the country are not so stupid that they believe in this. Now, for the last four years, we've heard nothing but the call for government options from the government. Every time the red-greens have had occasion, they have asked the question, Do you have an alternative? Now it actually looks like it can really be, that in 2013 we can get a bourgeois government. And then what happens? Yes, the panic takes the government. And when a person panics, it is often an attack that is the best defense – and then attack the alternatives of the bourgeois parties instead of talking and concentrating on their own priorities. Yes, the Advance Party brings tax relief. We give tax breaks, and we allow people to keep more of their own money. And this is actually something that in turn contributes to value creation. The Advance Party has faith in the individual and that the family can have its own responsibility and take control of its own lives. We don't want the state's clumsy hand, but the freedom back to the families to make their own choices about the distribution of parental leave and childcare. We want small children's families to have a simpler everyday life, which in turn provides a safe environment and good growth conditions. The Prime Minister boasted that we now have full babysitting. But it's actually a truth with modifications. Children's playground is completely dependent on the time of the year you were born. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes to continue to be admitted to kindergartens. Only then can we start talking about that we have full babysitting. And then we're not going to forget that without the private kindergartens, there would never have been full babysitting, as the government says today. In fact, parents are more satisfied with the private kindergartens, and they are also operated more efficiently. The punishment from the government is that they tighten private engagement, and that the equal treatment of public and private kindergartens goes out in time. So no one knows when it's going to work. Two days ago, in this Chamber, we had an important and long debate on the situation in the field of child protection – a situation that is actually very serious, and with which three Labour Party Councils have not managed to do anything. But now we've got a government council from SV, which honestly says he's at least going to try. Yes, it is well and good with samples to look at the organisation and evaluation of the reform, but we also need immediate action. I guess it's good with earmarks. The requested opposition last year. But that's not enough. After listening to the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, who stood here accusing the Progress Party of cutting child protection, I will hand her a copy of the Advance Party's budget. Because there's actually a big difference between moving money and cutting money. The Progress Party is transferring money from the National Child Protection Agency to the municipalities and also to the purchase of private services. The committee today met with the CS on child protection, and I've never been more sure that the right way to do this is by moving money from a state bureaucratic child protection system to the municipalities, which are the first line, and which know what is needed. KS could not get enough emphasis on the importance of prevention and early family support, how important it is to have decisions taken at a municipal level. Instead, we see that the state bureaucracy in child protection often exceeds the municipalities and builds up a bureaucracy. This is something the government can do with now rather than wait for investigations. While we wait, there are many kids out there who suffer. I am proud of the budget of the Progress Party. I am proud that we are making the priorities and choices that actually benefit the inhabitants, and that would have cleaned up the mess that this government has created. I haven't heard in the last year anyone shout out that they want more red-green policy, rather the opposite. That is why I can say that I am actually looking forward to the elections in 2013, and I sincerely hope that the Progress Party will have some impact on its policy. And yes, the population is going to notice changes, but that's for the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3592	When we discuss the state budget, it's mostly about the elderly and health, about school, about transportation, about work – things that we're concerned about because we want people in our country to feel good. But I also think, when we discuss this budget, that it is important to look a little beyond the borders of the country. The Labour Party has always been concerned with international solidarity. When we know that the world's resources are so fundamentally unfairly distributed, when we know that over 43 million people are fleeing because of war and poverty, when we know that democracy is something many have never experienced, then it's important that Norway, together with other countries, take a great deal of responsibility. Climate change and a demanding world economy are the starting point for government intervention on aid. High food prices and reduced wages due to the financial crisis have not made the eradication of poverty less demanding than before. From 2007 to 2009, world hunger increased by around 170 million. When there are economic downturns for developing countries, growth is even more difficult to build up. Many countries in Europe have also experienced the consequences of the financial crisis. It has, among other things, stated that many of them cut heavily in their aid budgets. It is then important that Norway continues to provide it. The climate problem must be solved. That's what most of the parties on the Stortinget believe. I therefore think it is good that the government's budget is so high on climate and forest, on the prevention of natural disasters, on climate adaptation and on the development of clean energy. Because the poorest countries are the hardest affected by the impacts of climate change, and it is important that this too is reflected in development policy. In the setting that we are discussing here today, we can read in the comments of the Right that they believe that the government's development policy is largely symbolism, that it is only about reaching a percentage of gross national income. There is no unknown criticism from the right. I have been met in many debates with the results that count, not the number of dollars that are used. I agree, of course, that it's the results that count, but we're not going to miss that in order to get results, we also have to choose to use resources to achieve them. I think it's not unreasonable that we see the resources we use in relation to how much income we actually have. It's about propriety for me. The Right Party and the Advance Party have met in many areas of their alternative budgets, including: to carry out large tax cuts. But they have also found themselves in cutting the aid budget. The progress will cut over $8 billion. kr, while the Right will take a round billion. Both parties take the floor to use more free trade and to reduce customs barriers to solve the poverty problem. The working party is not against trade, but we don't think that in itself is the solution. For us, development and poverty reduction are more than that. For us, it's about helping to put infrastructure in place and develop business. It's about building up the health system, about preventing women from dying when they give birth, and about giving children schooling. It is about contributing to the development of democracy, tackling corruption, combating discrimination and enabling people to take responsibility for developments in their own country. When the Right writes in the setting that they want to remove Norwegian bilateral support for Latin America and reduce sharply to Asia, I'm worried. I am becoming, among other things, concerns for the work done in Latin America on human rights. When the Progress Party launched its budget, it was possible to read about major cuts to Africa, civil society, international organisations, peace, reconciliation, democracy and vaccines – the list is unfortunately long. And that doesn't make me any less concerned than the Right's cut. I'm thinking about how effective vaccines are in combating child mortality, about the enormously good work that Norwegian voluntary organisations do worldwide, about the importance of contributing to peace building. The point is that the Right and Advance Party cut would have had great consequences. The Labour Party wants a different policy. We want a solidarity policy, and that is why I am pleased that it is the government's draft budget that will be adopted at night once.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3611	I want to start with something so untraditional as to point out that I believe Prime Minister Stoltenberg had a good point in his speech when he said that it is not just because we found the oil that we have been able to develop the society we have today. On Christmas Eve 1969, the then State Council of the Ministry of Industry Sverre Rostoft announced that the oil company Philips had found oil in Ekofisk, and found it to be impeccable. We had found gold. That we found oil was not in itself the reason we have come to where we are today. That we put in place a good administration and a good tax regime for the industry was also important. But what has had the greatest impact on the development of Norwegian petroleum industry and the importance that industry has gained for Norway in the years that followed, was the technology promise of visionary politicians from many parties in the years immediately after 1969. Based on the expertise we had in mining, geology and maritime sectors, we could build a petroleum competence through research, an active industry and technology development that enabled us to develop oil resources that had previously been inaccessible due to too much pressure, too high temperature, too deep water or with a reservoir quality that made oil and gas extraction difficult. Ecophysic itself is a shining example of this development. When production started in 1971, it was estimated that the field would produce 20 pst. of the hydrocarbons contained in the field and that the field had to be closed around 1990. Today, 40 years later, the field is still in production, and you expect to extract 60 pst. of the reservoir, i.e. three times as much as the technology in 1971 gave way to -- maybe it'll be even more. The reason for this tearing technological development, which has created the basis for most of the Norwegian petroleum adventure, is that in the 1970s the majority of this hall, including in the Workers' Party, had visions of what we're going to live on in the future. In school, it was put into language and, not least, the real subjects were given a lift. At universities and universities, technology education was given the conditions to train the engineers, geologists and chemists needed to realize the values in the North Sea, and later in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. At the same time, technical research institutes were built up and given financial muscles in a relatively short time, in order to deliver research results that could prove useful in a European context. With this background, it is really only sad today to debate the visionless budget presented by the Stoltenberg Government. After all, the concept of a ‘steam course’ has changed its content. While a ship is about to land, having a rough course helps very little. The situation today is that one in five who completes ten years in the red-green community school cannot read well enough to acquire the content of a newspaper article or a school book. The situation is that the mathematics skills of Norwegian students lie several years behind students in many other OECD countries — and far below the average. The situation is that almost half of those starting engineering training do not complete and that, in sum, there is training for a few technologists. It should be for everyone's pleasure that our older people live longer than before. However, this means that more people need more health and care services. At the same time, the government is to implement an interaction reform that will lead to a large, new skill need. No matter who has a majority in this room, out there where the elderly are — because they are very little present in this room — there must be competent hands to provide and develop the services that the elderly need. With regard to research, which must lead the way towards more efficient management and more competitive business, it is not much to boast of. In a budget containing additions in many fields, research is not embarked on for 2011. On the contrary, the Research Council states that the budget will lead to a real decline. It's sad. The major consequences will only come in 2012, when the return on current research funds will be dramatically reduced due to the fact that the interest-bearing papers from the Research Fund will receive significantly lower interest rates in 2011. There has been a lot of talk about the rule of action today. However, the State Pension Fund Act states that petroleum income is to ‘support long-term considerations in the application of the country’s petroleum income’. I find it hard to imagine how to make better use of the country's large petroleum revenues just to underpin long-term considerations than to invest more money in knowledge and research. The Progress Party proposes to add 20 billion to the Research Fund. in addition to the Government's proposals. It will have little meaning in 2011, but I promise here and now that I will address that very proposal in the debate next year too, because the 2012 research budget will have major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3638	We live on a quiet island in an uprising sea, said the Prime Minister. That's how we can characterize the economic situation we have here in the country when we record what's happening around us. In countries by country in Europe, dramatic economic shifts are being made, with the result that expenditure on government budgets is consistent with revenue. We get to serve pictures and stories that clearly show that rights that have been built up over many years take a very short time, actually just with a simple political decision, to build up. The reactions of many are harsh and sometimes violent, whether in the case of increased tuition fees for students or lower salaries for public employees — understandably enough. In sum, however, this shows how important it is to keep order in the economy, and we do. So someone would argue that as long as the oil money flows into the state treasury in Norway, it takes a lot more to be out of order in the budget. I wish it was that simple! Just a few months ago, there were several people screaming about the danger of ‘Dutch disease’ — that too much oil money was being used, and that we were soaking up savings. No, our use of oil money is in stark contrast to most other countries that have been so fortunate that natural resources have generated huge revenues. We make sure that the entire population enjoys the income of natural resources – that is, a good distribution policy. However, we must recognise that our starting point is completely different when we are creating a budget for 2011 than for most other countries in Europe. We're lucky. The budget for next year is another building block in the welfare state. We want to expand the Norwegian welfare state because there are gaps and biases that need to be corrected, such as: non-advanced persons in secondary school. It's too high -- we can establish that. Now this isn't a strange phenomenon, but just as full it's too high. The dramatic thing about this is, of course, that those who do not complete high school get it more difficult later in life, both to get into normal working life, a working life that increasingly requires a high level of competence, and also by the fact that the probability of becoming unemployed is much greater if you do not get a good basic education. I'm happy for the focus that's on renunciation in high school. I'm glad this has a national focus. At the same time, it is important to clarify that the primary responsibility for a good school environment lies with the owner. This applies to both the professional among teachers and that there is good well-being among students, to mention something. Therefore, I am pleased that we are not going to lay down the owner, the county council. I just don't understand that we can get a good school where the drop-off should decrease, while at the same time a kutter a half billion kroner to the owner – especially when the biggest task of the county municipality is the operation of high school. It is precisely this Right and the Progress Party is making in its budget proposals. I don't understand. We're almost 5 million inhabitants in this country. We want it to live in people throughout the country and try to facilitate this. That is why district policy is important. This is also strongly reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration. An important element in this is regional development. I think it's the ones who have the shoe on, who know best where it presses. In this context, it is the county that knows its territory or region best and therefore knows best which measures or projects will contribute to regional development. But of course, it means that there are economic muscles for this. Well, as we don't cut off 1.5 billion. to regional development funds, as the Right does, fortunately such funds are also available in 2011. Over time, it has been shown that when good relations are established between the social partners and the authorities, society regains it through a stable and predictable development. This is achieved through a great deal of trust in the main associations. The right to deduct from the trade union quota is, of course, important for high participation in trade unions, on which most of the lots belong. I am convinced that this part of our social model contributes significantly to a stable and fairer development that will allow for much more in the labour market and ensure that the labour market functions in accordance with the standards and rules developed jointly by the parties and the authorities. But then I don't understand why the Right weakens this right of deduction so dramatically and that the Progress Party removes it. If the right-hand side says that they're too high a proportion of the trade unions in the world of work, while at the same time weakening the deduction, this doesn't make any sense. This is the only place that the right comes with a tax sharpening, i.e. to the trade unions. For a strong signal!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3661	As usual, there is an interesting and exciting debate with a clear ideological difference. I think that's good, because it makes it easier for them on the outside to recognize themselves in the political landscape as to their ability to influence and make their assessments of it. After listening to the budget debate today, it is as predictable as it has been: there are two clear camps that point out how bad it gets when the other one runs the store. At the same time, it is probably a fact that things are going well. It could go even better, someone would say, but all in all, we have a advantage that many others will envy us. It had also been tempting and said, after listening to the debate today, that I expect the revision to be cancelled with such a perfect budget, although of course it remains to be seen. There may be some revenue you are not aware of! All in all, it surprises me when I hear the position that defends the budget as far as you can and a little bit more, that you haven't come to solve the problems you have. It's nothing new that we're struggling with students leaving high school. It's nothing new that we don't get the characters we want to get in primary school, at primary school. It's nothing new that we don't have an old-age care that it shines off. It is nothing new that the municipalities are struggling with maintenance it is on the road or on its building mass. There's no news in this. But every year we have a majority – now we've had it since the red-green won the election – that tells us how good everything is. Why haven't the problems gotten smaller? It surprises me. And I have to say that it's quite rare to meet a local politician who says hallelujah, the budget is on the table. I'm glad to hear that. I've heard people put it on the table, but without the hallelujah, of course. It is also the case that rapporteurs from the red-green parties see great challenges in implementing what they want to do, even if it is the red-green government – their own – who is presenting the budget. At least there are several options for analysing why it is so difficult. Could it be because the policy of the majority in this Chamber is not good enough? Do we have too bad local politicians? That would of course be the easiest thing to say, but probably also very badly done to them. Because it's probably also a fact that one of the reasons you're struggling with local policy recruitment is that you feel that it's difficult. Spreading poverty has never been a particular success factor. That's why I think a lot of people complain about it, because you see that this doesn't stop. It won't get any better, you don't see any special lighting in it. That's what I think is sad and sad, because we're totally dependent on having uphill, good people in our municipalities to do the job there. Let me also say a few things about something we haven't talked about so much: the defence and the people we have in Afghanistan, while we're here to discuss the budget for next year. A small part of it, approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr, is set to be used in Afghanistan. What the cost will be, we have to get back to if it becomes a revised, maybe. But there's no doubt that we have someone who's part of our society, who takes a much greater daily load than what we do on the Storing, than most of us do. I think it's in their place to give them a honeymoon and make sure that we have a necessary focus on the problems they're set to solve, the situations they don't necessarily choose into, but they have to do the best of. Then I think it is strange that we are not even more good at giving them the best equipment that is to provide. We have, at my discretion, as perhaps one of the extremely few countries, the advice to do just that, to give those of us who are going to stand where it's foamy and most risky, the best equipment, so that they can do the job as properly as possible. We're not doing that. We have a dispute about vehicle investment. We have a dispute about weapon types. We have a dispute about the resources that are available, for example. on the evacuation side, on the helicopter side, and what we're doing there. So it's part of the safety net Stortinget provides its strengths in foreign operations. It is possible that the red-greens are proud of it, it seems good. On the part of the Progress Party, we think it is far too bad, and we have many things that we should have done better. Another thing that comes up before Christmas is the agreement on the divider line. Norway thus has a significantly larger sea area. I have trouble seeing that it has been taken into account in the budget for the presence of coastguards. I expect our frigates to lie at the berth in Bergen more or less the whole next year as well. Maybe we should install some flower boxes, so it decorates even more up. There is a need to ensure that when making large investments, investment should be made at the same time. If not, at my discretion, we're fooling taxpayers. We shouldn't do that. We should actually have more respect than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3680	The President is enough of the opinion that there will certainly be a revised budget for next year, so there will be an opportunity to come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3683	I want to start by telling you about when I took the train to Stortinget today. Then I met a lady who, when she was growing up, had lost her sight. But now everything went so much better, she told me, because she had got a guide dog. Today she had intended to take the trip to the Nesodden. Then she first took a bus from Ås to Ski, and then she took the train to Oslo S. So she and the dog went to Acher Bridge, and they took the ferry out to the Nesod. This, I think, is actually a nice story that shows that there is at least a lot of good in the welfare of the country as well. The United Nations has returned Norway to the world's best country to live in. Health and education and small differences in income are things that attract us. For the Workers' Party, "Work for All" is the main objective. With work for all, we can fight poverty, and we create equality and integration. We must secure work for all, and we must create tomorrow's jobs. The most important thing for humans is to have a job to go to – it makes sense in everyday life, and one can be involved and contribute to the community. Therefore, we must always focus on creating jobs for the future, and we must have good places of action for those who may lose their jobs. We have to make sure that there are decent jobs for everyone, and also make sure that people are allowed to contribute to their abilities. Entrepreneurship is important, and the Norwegian model contributes to entrepreneurship. When health and education are free, more people who have a founder in their stomach are afraid to bet on their idea. So we have to take care of the competitive industry. So we can't spend too much oil money, because it can lead to higher interest rates, which in turn lead to a stronger dollar rate, and which in turn will affect the competitive economy. In this country, we can be pleased that we have gone through the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment in Europe. We now see that the situation is a little better in some countries in Europe, but still fragile. Norway has a small and open economy. 80 pst. Of what we export, actually goes to Europe. We are also very affected by this when things go bad in Europe. This week we've heard about Ireland. They have to reduce their budgets, they have to increase taxes, and they depend on EU help. People in Ireland, like many other places in Europe, have to pay dearly for the economy to come out of course. Here in Norway, we have had the opportunity to spend a lot of money in bad times. But then we also have to use less in good times. We have to keep the economy in order. It is the basis for closing down work, production and well-being. So I'm glad that the government is providing a budget that reduces the distance to the 4 pst. path, and that already in 2010 a 4 pst. path could be back. I thought that Right was also interested in. They've said that they should be a guarantor of order in the economy. But later in the newspaper today, I read that the leader in the Right said, "We agree to government with Frp." In the VG, a financial spokesman in the Advance Party and in the Right said that they had equal main priorities in the budget. But the Progress Party says in its comments: ‘These members are not related to the rule of action [[...]] For the Labour Party, keeping the economy in order is the most important thing for the country. Then we can create future jobs. In this way, we can preserve the competitiveness of business, and we can ensure that well-being is sustainable, so that future generations can also benefit from our wealth. I want to list a few priorities. The Elder Pack has been talking about many times today. I still think it is important to take advantage of the increased contribution to the construction of sick homes, with a guarantee of dignity and with an extra billion to the municipalities. In addition, we have a 53 million worth worth of worth. to strengthen good cooperation with voluntary forces before care of the elderly. In the end, I would like to say a little about relations. One of the most important transport projects in Norway is also on the priority list this year, with 366 million. NOK 186 million for the conversion of Ski Station. kr for further planning of Follobana. The work is well in progress, to the great joy of all those waiting for better trains! We will adopt a budget that keeps the economy in order, which has clear priorities for work and well-being – a budget in which everyone will be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3715	Two years after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the acute crisis in financial markets, there is still a major imbalance in the international economy. Obama has a Wall Street reform in place, and the American economy is growing. But the United States still has high unemployment, high budget deficits and high government debt. At home in Europe, the Greek debt crisis has required both a rescue package agreed by Greece, the euro area countries and the IMF, and tight savings measures, leading to dramatic protests with tragic results in Athens. In London, David Cameron suggests cutting approximately. one quarter of British budgets, except for health and assistance. Yesterday afternoon, the Irish government presented a saving plan that could bring the EU and the IMF to a rescue package for them. Portugal, Italy and Spain are all threatened by high levels of government debt. This is reality — outside Norway. Here, municipalities get a so-called older billion in the 2010 budget – because tax revenue is getting bigger than you thought. The strong Norwegian economy is, of course, due to our unique access to natural resources, but also to good political governance. The 2011 budget assumes responsibility for tightening up and adapting to a normal situation following the expansionary fiscal policy during the financial crisis. Today we adopt a decent budget, with good measures for climate, health and care. The climate agreement is followed up by measures to combat deforestation. Hospitals are given the opportunity to increase patient treatment, loans are given for construction at hospitals in Østfold, Bergen and Stavanger, and new cancer screening pilot projects are being launched. Municipalities are upgraded financially and can expand care for the elderly. In the future, full hospital coverage is a particularly important task. We need to put in place 12,000 new health homes and nursing homes and 12,000 new year’s work in care and care. Everyone who needs it must have the right to hospitalization. Together with the Health Interaction Reform, which is followed up by grants to, among others: local medical centres, and, as a consequence, new health and care laws and new public health laws, this is a new provision in the field of health and care in the future. I read reactions from the opposition in the Official Journal of Bergen the day after the budget was presented, and found quite little of a common profile. For example, the Right drew out the lack of tax relief, the Advance Party the care of the elderly, the Christian People's Party the treatment of the drug, and the Left Education. And I wonder what is the opposition's common project, beyond the consensus to throw us. We've tried civil governments before. Last time, ordinary people paid more taxes than today, while the richest paid much less. Norway spent less money on vaccinating the world's children than we do today, there was less growth in hospitals and municipalities than it is now, and the last year with civil government, we had a decline in the number of annual work in care. Who can look over the shoulder and sincerely want this back? Or, rather, who can sincerely wish for an even more blue alternative, with even more of the same? I am pleased that the government and the Christian People's Party agree on a lot in economic policy. On the other hand, the alternative budgets of the Progress Party and the Right are distinguished between the majority and the blue-blue option, where tax cuts are first priority, and where the socio-economic focus is shifted away from ordinary people with normal jobs to high-wages with less common jobs. Right encourages ‘creating more, not taxing more’. Clearly, tax cuts can have dynamic effects. But the idea that tax cuts return more to public budgets than the cut costs in itself is about what Bush senior 30 years ago called voodoo economy, while Bill Clinton concluded that ‘offer side economy denies mathematics’. What you earn is not only a product of your own efforts, but also of the innate possibilities the context provides. Just as we are born in a country with violent natural resources, having a responsibility to contribute globally to those born less fortunate than us, progressive tax systems can distribute opportunities more fairly here at home. Norway has managed to combine economic growth with more equitable distribution than most other countries in the world. It's important, because smaller differences can create greater demand and generate growth in the economy, and because small differences create trust and stability, but, most of all, with a slight rewriting of Clinton's words, because Norway simply works better when more people have a chance to live their dreams.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3746	Today, it is tempting to make an article ‘on behalf of those who have not escaped with their demands’ to society. These also do not have the right to vote, so that there is no need to suspect tactical considerations. Our children and grandchildren, the «next generations», and those who will take over after us, will also be allowed to participate in the public «welfare and security» into the future. It's our moral and economic duty. The quoted words are not my words, but the words of former staging representative and current Finance Minister Sigbjørn Johnsen in a big debate at the end of the 1990s, I think it was in the spring of 1997. These are wise words – and as relevant today as that time. The former U.S. president Herbert Hoover said the following: Blessed are our children and grandchildren, for they are to inherit our debt. And then I can add, inherit our burdens, if we don't look into the future and call about our good community solutions. We have to do this work. The future extends beyond the year 2011. Good Community solutions are crucial for the establishment of a qualitative welfare society. Competition exposure and privatisation in these areas can in a short time tear down everything that we have built step by step since the other world war. Then there is no tax relief, privatisation and more for the money. I know a lot of people in the public and private sectors who do an incredibly good job. It must be mentally debilitating all the time to say that one is not stretching. Often the result is that these great human beings end up in other budget headings: sick pay or disability. It's work and value creation we live by, and the more we work, the easier it becomes to pay future bills. The labour force is our most important resource. It's both unsocial and uneconomical to let do everything we can to get people out of the unemployment line and into work. It's important to choose what's most important. We have knowledge of other countries and other democratic systems that have historically believed that more competition is healthy and that private solutions provide more money. These countries have in many cases gone wrong, and there is no reason for us to make the same mistakes. We must call about our Community solutions and the Norwegian model. Special interests, such as smaller taxes and lower taxes, are damaging to the financial structure created. We can't now fail our children and grandchildren. Security and well-being are closely linked. A safe person is a happy person. Community solutions, work and fair distribution are key to reducing crime and increasing security. That is why it is so crucial to focus on prevention. And I'm proud of the efforts today's government has made in this area. We've taken many steps towards a safer society. In the last five years, the government has made a strong contribution to the police, the courts and the criminal services, and now we see many positive results from an active, whole-hearted judicial policy, with more police force, fewer offences, more prison sites, shorter settlement queues and a more effective judicial system. In addition, the government is very active in the international arena to strengthen judicial cooperation. Crime prevention is important. Prevention can save many too much pain and loss. Here the police, in cooperation with other public and private actors, are important pieces. Therefore, it must be a clear goal to get the most police force out of the funds that are being pledged.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3769	This is a debate on the state budget, but I want to start my article a little elsewhere. I live in and represent Oslo – Oslo East, to be absolutely accurate. We live there shorter, we have lower income, and we live worse than people west of town. We have a higher risk of cardiovascular diseases and other chronic diseases, we eat worse and move less – we even have a higher risk of accidents than people west of town. In short, we are really getting worse at all the indicators that can be used to measure living standards. In school we see a segregation trend. Oslo is getting a shared school structure. Six schools in Oslo have over 90 pst. minority language pupils. In some schools not a single student with ethnic Norwegian background started in the fall. It doesn't have to be a problem in itself, but many children in the same place who don't have good enough Norwegian skills are a problem. It's no use pretending anything else. Oslo East has an overrepresentation of drug institutions and social institutions. We have an overweight of municipal housing, where we have to pay market rent to live, so that people are forced to become clients in order to pay their rent. In recent days, VG has written about a settlement strike in Sinsenwegen, a place referred to as Norway’s new slum, where municipal apartments are close, and 240 out of 450 residents receive social support. Sinsenwegen is not a unique case on the east edge of Oslo. There is a place where the Municipality of Oslo has sold apartments that they rent back on a large scale as municipal apartments, concentrated in one place. And the City Council's answer when confronted with it is that this is «private property» and that «it is the owner who is responsible for keeping the dwellings in the same condition». In Old Oslo, every three children live below the poverty line. In my part of town, Grünerløkka, it's one of four. Every fourth child in my neighborhood lives below the poverty line. I recognise that the challenges are great, and that the state and the municipality have a common responsibility. But the really worrying thing here is that Oslo has a social agency from the Right, Anniken Hauglie, who won't admit that Oslo is a shared city. She has just said that for the City Council in Oslo, there is no goal of equalising social differences. That's what she says, who's a social worker in a town where a 15-minute T-Bahn trip means a difference in life expectancy of twelve years. And she's Social Agency for the Right, the party that has now adopted the rhetoric of her Swedish colleagues and started talking about the outside world. I think it's interesting to look at the heavy budgetary efforts to the Right. There's a billion to go, there's a billion to research – it can be fun enough – and then there's ten billion in tax relief. The trade union deduction remains the only one – and for the right hand side – symbolically important intensification. At the same time, their programme calls for the brutalisation of working life. They're going to have sick pay cuts, and in the throne debate we got an important clarification from Erna Solberg: the right will reintroduce the old private school law. This means commercialisation of the Norwegian school, and their budgets add to commercialisation in the health sector. Taxation and privatisation provide poorer and less efficient welfare services. A weakening of the public sector means privatisation, which means more self-payment and greater differences. We know that it creates differences. And the Right also knows that, but they're probably not concerned about it. And then it's quite paradoxical that those who are most outside, those who are talking about right when they use the word exclusion, those who are out of work, are the only ones who don't get any profit out of the Right's most marked budgetary effort, namely tax relief. It's hard to talk about cheating when you're in charge of such a policy. You can't be credible about those who fall outside, when you don't want to do anything about the social differences in Oslo – and I guess that attitude can be transferred to the country as a whole. Right appears to be a party that doesn't understand socio-economic structures, that doesn't understand the meaning of where in a city or in a country you're born and growing up, what your parents do, what attitudes they have, shape you and put heavy leadership on how you get it. Men on the eastern edge of Oslo live 12 years shorter than men on the western edge. It seems that the Right doesn't realize that it's about living conditions, how stressful a job you have, how much noise and particulate matter you're exposed to, what kind of neighbours you have. It's not about people on the west side being better at eating fruit and green and going on tour more often than people on the east side, because you can get the impression when you hear, for example. Erik Lundesgaard from the Right is talking about this. We have a different priority. We prioritise inclusive working life because we know it's the key to people's well-being. Right-hand rule in Oslo. We see how differences in people's ability to live good lives grow and grow, and that the Right says it's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3797	The Prime Minister promised in the election campaign that he would fill the pools. Now when we look at the water basins around the country, we see that they empty very quickly. The power crisis is becoming a fact this winter too. In the address paper yesterday, it was a letter to the reader that the power crisis must be resolved. The strange thing about the post was that it was written by a payroll representative from the Workers' Party and a County rapporteur from the Workers' Party – a party that has thus ruled the country for five and a half years and has had every opportunity to fix the power crisis. But five and a half years later, there's still something you have to write chronicles about to do something about it. In today's debate, I challenge the Central Party, which sits with the Minister of Oil and Energy, to say what measures they can take to remedy the situation, and not least to help those who are financially affected by the high power prices. We are still waiting for the answer, because there were no measures. It was just talking about how much one had done to expand more power. But one is improper in the situation you're doing today, even though one has opened a couple of power plants here and there. The problem is that the dimensions of government policy do not meet the challenges of society. The oil and energy minister has been in Bergen today. He had two solutions to the power situation: a power line, which still lies several years ahead in time, but on which the government has so far spent five years, and power disconnection. It's actually a pretty puzzled approach in an energy nation like Norway. The government has more tools in the toolbox, if they want to use it, if they dare to challenge themselves. The former Minister of Industry of the Workers Party called the toolbox a jewelry box. I don't think today's energy policy is much to decorate with. Let me mention some measures that one could take on, for example. gas. Use more gas in the country. We've spent 2.5 billion. kr for mobile gas power plants. So it's been government's preferred measures, but God helps me if the mobile gas power plants are going to be used to rationalize water. One has several actors who want to build gas power plants on a full scale: BKK in Hordaland, Industrialkraft Møre in Møre and Romsdal, Hammerfest Energie in Finnmark. Let them be allowed, with state involvement in CO2 cleaning as in Mongstad, but let them get the chance. So let's think about the potential for water. Let's discuss again the protection of tissue. Let's look at the small effort to get rid of the five-year process queue, and let's see if time is not ripe to evaluate sheltered watercourses in order to exploit the energy resources while at the same time safeguarding the protection values that were at the root of the protection in its time. Let's take a look at Enova and let them do a regional effort where it's needed, and not just have general instruments. And not least, Enova has a lot of capital, but they're not allowed to use the capital where it gets good effect now. Household support – the money for that particular item in the support scheme they are not allowed to transfer internally. We have to be able to smooth that out. One should say that the electricity charge should be reduced when the electricity price becomes extremely high over time. We know that consumption of electricity is almost independent of price. If one in retrospect says that the electricity charge is refunded because the electricity prices have been above a certain level, it will also not affect market demand and thus the market price of electricity. In today's budget, an overall opposition has made a proposal to do something about housing support schemes, so that one in advance gives a better signal to ordinary people, not least to the poor, that they do not have to shut down the heat if the flow becomes expensive. The housing support will then be able to enter, but here the government is prepared to vote against. I think that's very sad. So we're witnessing a comprehensive energy policy, where one boasts of how much money Enova has been allocated, but very little of what Enova gets done – and that's what's going on. The same is true in the case of petroleum policy. The Åm Committee outlined a possible gross additional income of 7000 billion. kr – huge values – by exploiting the energy resources in the North Sea. The government responds by cutting down on petroleum research. The government says that Jan Mayen is the most interesting area we're currently working on, with the greatest dynamics. I like to meet an oilman who thinks that Jan Mayen is interesting to travel to, hardly on vacation – even less send a drilling ship in that direction. It is therefore necessary to clarify the lofoot. The Barents Sea east has to be clarified. In the debate on the throne, SV said that the Barents Sea east is «a long way ahead». I hope that the workers' party people in this room are of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3835	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3838	There has been an unwritten rule in this process over many years to deal with departments when preparing their alternative budgets. Of course, all batches are free to ask questions and go through the studies and calculations received. The Progress Party has spent more money than all of us, but this year it goes a long way beyond what is really decent. The calculation of this lot no longer depends on the grasp – at all! The lot solves this by ignoring the Treasury calculations and making its own calculations. If they don't get the answers they want, they set up their own calculations to make it jump. It doesn't lead to anything good. The bill comes to an end. What will the consequences of such a policy – if everyone were to do so, without any real anchoring? Then government finances would come out of control, and people would notice, of course, those degrees. People must be able to trust that the policy makers act in a clean, proper and sound manner when they have been asked to govern our state finances. This security is not present with the policies of the Progress Party. The policy of the Progress Party is a step towards an unsafe society. Let us see: several of the proposals of the Progress Party are not realistic and, of course, violate good budgetary policy. In particular, they have taken into account a significant reduction in the cost of unpaid pay, sick pay and daily allowances, without indicating the restrictions to be applied. It is clear that the individual unemployed person will ask himself: what does the Progress Party think about the social security that I am going to receive per day, per week? No, they don't know that -- it's just a ratio. The disgruntled person would say, "What's my payment going to be in this month?" No, it's just a ratio, because we've just cut fast. This is irresponsible and irresponsible! The fact that the country's second largest party acts in this way is historical in Norwegian politics. It is an insult to the work of Stortinget, but not least to the Norwegian people – all voters regardless of the colour of the party. They lead the voters behind the light with such irresponsible action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3850	Being able to feel safe – for itself, for its closest ones and for its property is one of the most fundamental rights that we have in a democratic society. Nevertheless, there are very many in our society who feel unsafe in their everyday lives, and it is a paradox in that country in the world that should be able to ensure that its inhabitants have the security they need. The Progress Party has for a number of years had a considerable pressure on the current government to increase the judicial budgets so that people can have greater security in their everyday lives. I will be honest and admit that the government has partially followed up this. Funds have been allocated to the justice sector in recent years, but unfortunately this is not enough. When the Judicial Committee travels and visits the police districts, for example, we are told that there is no full compensation for wage and price increases. New jobs are also not fully compensated. In the justice sector, therefore, we still need substantial funding. This shows the alternative budget of the Progress Party, with more than 700 million. kr extra for the justice system – more than 500 mill. Extra for the police. Increasing the supply of funds and the proper use of existing funds are something that requires considerable focus and commitment in the future, because when we, as a magnification, provide such a unit with significant more resources, we need to be able to demand increased police force, increased efficiency in the courts, etc. It is therefore strange – in a country that should have all the prerequisites – that not all police students, for example, have got a steady position now as it is Christmas. Earlier this year the Judicial Committee met the Danish Judicial Committee. I then raised this issue with them, whether it was the case that newly educated police in Denmark did not get a job. They didn't understand the problem. That is why, after a year in the Justice Committee, I have been surprised at how this sector works. But it is clear that there is the problem in this room and not in the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3861	The State budget shall facilitate the security and welfare of peoples and shall facilitate the development of the nation. It is therefore discouraging to read the Ministry of the Environment's budget proposal. Indeed, it appears that the government will ensure as far as possible the remaining so-called non-interventional natural areas. So what does this have to do with the financial debate? Well, it affects how we can use our natural resources. Such ‘intervention-free natural areas’ are now defined as 45 pst. the area of the country. And not enough: based on the definition, you also have to take into account an edge zone of 1 km around the non-interventional natural areas. That's 70 pst. of the land area affected — with restrictions on the landowners, traders and municipalities concerned, without compensation or compensation being granted to those affected. The ability to manage natural resources is a pillar of development and activity in District Norway, but under this government we experience a massive transfer of power over the areas of state bureaucracy. This is done at the expense of private ownership and local self-government. Earlier this year, the Right took up the legal basis for imposing restrictions on as much as 70 pst. of the land area. The answer we received from the Minister for the Environment was a reference to four different laws. However, not one of these laws mentions the concept of ‘intervention-free natural areas’. However, the question must have made a certain impression on the Council of State, because in that budget proposal from his department, a total of 16 laws are now being referred to as authorising the non-interventional natural areas. But even in one of these laws, this concept is not mentioned. Thus, such a powerful attack on ownership and local self-government has not been adopted by legal proceedings here in Stortinget. This is in itself serious, and we will come back to that after a later examination of a proposal from the Right. But it also has another side: it hampers the possibility of a reasonable use of our natural resources – a practice that is in line with local traditions, and which combines use and nature protection in a balanced way. Therefore, the Right will no longer attach weight to the concept of ‘intervention-free natural areas’ when dealing with land-related matters. We will give the landowners the freedom under responsibility to manage their property, and we have confidence in the good ability of local democracy to balance different social interests in its municipality. But unfortunately, the red-green government turns its back on both landowners and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3880	This year's budget has a budget of 2.7 billion. on regional and district policies. If we exclude the compensation funds for a differentiated employer's fee, the allocation is well 2 billion. kr. This is money to go to business start-ups, local entrepreneurship, women's bets, youth bets and rural settlements. These are the most important instruments we have in regional and regional policy – earmarked and targeted money. In its alternative budget proposals, the Right and the Progressive Party propose to cut these funds in full in order to finance tax relief in the order of 12 billion. kr. It's the districts that lose the most. North Norway taps a total of 588 million. SEK, coroner counties 193 million. SEK, Westland 342 million. and the inland counties 156 million. And then the right-hand side suggests cutting 200 million. kr from the national investment in innovation, reducing agricultural transfers by 1.7 billion. kr, half of the regional aid for the Post, the alternative government budget of the right-hand party appears to be totally devoid of regional and district profile – directly hostile to districts. For North Norway, the Right eartag will be 200 million. kr for the development of petroleum competence in the supplier industry. Everything will be directed towards the oil sector – towards the opening of the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja. Then the parties turn their backs on the rest of the business. Good examples of what these funds have contributed to in North Norway are REC's industrial establishment in Glomfjord and Narvik – 600-700 jobs in the solar industry. The development of the University of Bodø to the University of Nordland is also an example – a Nordic success story. The heavy investment now being made in Northern Norway in travel life, with destinations companies in Northern Ireland, Troms and Finnmark and a common Nordic travel life market, will have to be phased out if the draft budgets of these parties had been adopted. If we base the portion of the nation's share of the tax revenue, 34 pst. the tax relief proposed here falls to Oslo and Akershus, while for example: 6 pst. is due to North Norway. I do not know where the parties' district representatives have been when these proposals have been discussed. Either they haven't understood what they've been up to, or they've slept very heavy an hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3893	There has been little talk of equality between the Right and the Progressive Party in this debate. It's not that strange, because it's not that much to talk about in their budgets when it comes to equality. Fortunately, the government's budget is a budget for equality and cultural injustice. We have created a society that we want as many as possible to be involved in building further, on an equal basis, regardless of gender. If such considerations are not allowed to be taken into account in employment, it is always seen that young, childless, cohabiting women are deprived because the employer assumes that in a short time the woman will be long away from work due to family increase. This is particularly true in small enterprises. The idea that a man might as well be away from work for the same reason is not as established, and that is what men serve – without necessarily wanting it. There are several workplaces and environments where there is no cultural provision for men to be at home to be a father. A work that I've talked to about this described this culture by putting it well over mid-point. He said, "My colleagues would think I was gay if I were away from work for four months to look after my child." The government wants to facilitate the widest possible participation in their own family life, and that is why we have gone in to expand the father's quota. This can give father more opportunity to be involved early in the life of his child, and the working life understands and gets used to the fact that fathers can also be gone. These weeks we've given father, in addition to the ordinary parental leave, the families may say yes or no. More freedom of choice than it kind of doesn't. Nevertheless, representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have been heard saying that they want to remove the father's quota, just as they did not want kindergarten development in the 1980s, legal rights to kindergartens, max. price in kindergartens, etc. Despite the Right Party and the Progress Party that are slowing down, we have come quite a long way with equality in Norway, but we will continue until we are in the goal. The dark blues, on the other hand, think that we have come too far – too far – actually so far that they will turn their heels and go back again. The argument they're using is that the optional Dad quota is blocking the freedom of choice. This is where I fall off. How is it possible to call a system that makes it possible for families to make a real choice about who should be at home, for something other than freedom of choice? The government wants to facilitate that pay and power are better distributed by making business better see that men and women can be equally involved, both at home and at work. I hope some representatives from the Right or the Advance Party will be able to respond later in the debate to how they believe that their proposal to have more expensive kindergartens and to remove the Dad quota will create a more equal society with greater and more real freedom of choice in the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3912	We are now witnessing a large-scale centralization wave, directed by the Labour Party. I wonder if the centre party can stand behind this. I'd like to mention what's happening at our local hospitals, where they're now centralizing maternity wards and emergency services in surgery. At the same time, we also see the Labour Party's plans for a large-scale centralisation of the police chamber, for example. Sogn and Fjordane are standing without political frames. According to public statistics, there has never been such a large-scale centralization as in the years of the red-green government, with the governing power in this country. The centre party has used most of the time through several election campaigns to warn people in the districts against us in the Progress Party, and come with debts that we come to power, it becomes a rage of the districts. The Central Party's regional policy has been the sole source of subsidies for agriculture. In recent times, there are numbers that show that there is at least one garden use per day. This must mean that the central party in government has failed completely, and it also shows that they have led the peasants behind the light with their promises. Our agricultural policy is that only larger agricultural units can secure agriculture in the rural area. It is only the Progress Party's policy that can stop the wave of centralisation, with our commitment to infrastructure construction and value creation throughout the country. This can ensure and secure existing jobs, and it will be absolutely necessary if the objective is to create new jobs. The government party boasts that it has never before allowed so much money to the important things that the red-green government has then ruled the country. The truth is, at the same time, there has been a formidable increase in costs, which actually exceeds the promises. The result is not difficult to see around the municipalities, and we now hear that most of the municipalities have to cut services to their inhabitants. The party of progress thinks it's a huge savings potential in government business, where bureaucracy grows intact. The Progress Party has proposed that we only have two levels of government, state and municipality, where municipalities are given much of the power and image that is currently in the county municipality. The party of progress wants to bring down the county, which will bring great economic savings. We also want to restructure Kommune-Noreg, so that we get strong and robust municipalities that can meet future service requirements. By implementing our changes, decentralising decision-making processes and cutting red tape, the public will have an economic backbone that will enable our politicians to provide satisfactory services to its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3931	Sustainable growth does not come about by itself. It must be created and built from below. Right wants a society with opportunities for everyone, a society that is capable of providing security for the individual and helping those who need it the most. The most important institution of the welfare society is therefore the school. Knowledge is the most important building block in every human life. Our ability to acquire knowledge is absolutely crucial for which doors will be open to us later, and for our ability to contribute to the community. Right-wing policies for a new opportunity and opportunities for all are based on a school system that enhances the knowledge and competence of individuals and is a social mobility policy. Therefore, the Right in its alternative budget has put a significant focus on education and research. Right rates at all stages, from 1st grade to students and researchers. This year’s student survey shows that one in four Norwegian fifth graders does not have enough challenges in school. There is a clear message to our teachers about raising ambitions on behalf of the students. When seven out of ten teachers in a survey conducted by the Education Association respond that they are motivated by continuing education, there is a clear message to the government to raise ambitions on behalf of the teachers. The Prime Minister's mantra last New Year's Eve was that knowledge trumps everything. If Jens Stoltenberg meant what he said, it is strange that education did not come out that wins in this state budget. Absence in secondary schools and young people who do not complete their education is a serious social problem. The government's bet on "New GIV" is a lot of word and little action. The situation is serious as regards access to apprenticeships. Vocational training in vocational education is not far enough, and alternative training services such as ‘School on construction site’ are now at risk of closure. It is incomprehensible that it should take a year and a half to bring together the social partners to mobilise more than one apprenticeship and that there is inexplicable inertia or resistance to offers to help motivate more students to complete higher education. Red-green school priorities come in a strange light when it becomes more important to legislate fruit and green and legal homework with unskilled helpers than it is to take a real boost so that the country's teachers can meet their students with even better professional ballast. The right has very clear school priorities. We want to spend the large amount of money in school in several hours and to secure motivated and competent teachers. It is not a policy of privatisation and commercialisation of the school, as several red-green politicians have claimed here today. On the contrary, the policies and budgets of the Right are a solid commitment to Norwegian public primary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3950	I have to say that I have been a little surprised by the rhetoric of the opposition today. On the one hand, they owe the position to perform the worst-case black polling when we point out what their alternative budget will lead to, but on the other hand, they do not deny themselves to carry out a rough black polling of the country that is so high on all UN statistics. So criticism of the opposition is black measurement, and black measurement of the position is completely natural. I have a little problem seeing the logic and rhetoric that the opposition has tried to lead today, but I'm going over to what's my theme today, and that's business policy. What I want to assume is that knowledge is an incredibly important basis for pursuing a good industrial policy. The point of knowledge is that we have to connect the knowledge to the companies in order for it to become a good business policy. We have a lot of tools in Norway that are just designed to connect knowledge to businesses. We have something called Norwegian Centres of Expertise, and we have a program called Arena. These programs work so that big and small companies merge, and then they work closely with a university or college. I have been in a situation where I have had the joy of working in some of these networks. It's absolutely amazing to see how both companies, and especially the small businesses, and the learning resources of universities flourish when they get together in such a network. Then businesses, and especially small businesses, get up-to-date knowledge, and the teaching forces at universities get up-to-date on the issue of teaching their students. It's one of the most effective, and it's one of the most knowledge-based developments we can do when it comes to business development. Then I have to say that it surprises me that Right has just released the programme item in the Ministry of Local Affairs budget that we are going to use to support the Norwegian Centres of Expertise and Arena. What surprises me even more is that when I have in two lines here asked the Right-Representative why they do it, they refuse to do so. So it indicates that the Right doesn't even know what they're doing, when they cut into one of the most important industrial policy tools we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3961	Food and transport policy is like hand in hand. We're shrinking the country with good infrastructure projects. This is important in long-term Norway, which has a large production of goods and services around the country. Norwegian agriculture is important for housing and employment in large parts of the country, and the main task of the industry is to produce safe and clean food for its own population. We have a future food crisis going on internationally. One billion of the world's population is starving today. We know that the world's population will increase in the next few years. By 2050 we will be about nine billion people on earth. That means we have to double the food production during this period if we are to feed everyone. In Norway, too, the population will increase in the coming years. Today we import over half of the food we eat here to land, and it puts us in a vulnerable position if there is an international crisis. Access to food for one's own population is fundamental to a nation. National food supply is part of the security and defence policy. Therefore, we need to increase Norwegian food production as a result of developments. With this rear carpet, there is good reason to ask what responsibility the Right Party and the Advance Party take for Norwegian food supply when we see their proposal in the state budget. Right will cut $1.7 billion. kr for agriculture, and the Progress Party is not less sluggish and will cut 6,4 billion. kr. The centre party is not willing to gamble with access to food for its people. That is what the Right Party and the Advance Party do with the cuts in agricultural transfers. We will maintain a living and diverse agriculture and sustainable forestry throughout the country. It is therefore important to further develop the industry's income and welfare policy in order to achieve this. I therefore look forward to the government presenting its own big message to review precisely this policy area. An active agricultural policy is a prerequisite for industries in the fields of land, tourism and the food industry. Open cultural landscapes and a rich biodiversity are important for creating attractive tourism products across the country. We in the Central Party are therefore positive about the investment in travel life in North Norway, which is on the state budget again in 2011. We see positive results from this initiative, and it's important that it continues. It is also gratifying that the mountain region in the west has called for closer cooperation to strengthen travel life in this part of the country. We are also concerned about food production in the ‘blue field’, and we think it is positive that the government is adding to sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry in Troms and Finnmark in 2011. For my part, I would also like to thank you for giving us three concessions, two in Northern and one in Hordaland, to those who lost the concession in the anchoring round that was – a happy solution to a tired case. Agriculture, forestry, tourism, fisheries and aquaculture are major district industries, all highly dependent on good transport years. We want to move more goods from road to track and sea. That's why we have to look at good good good points where reloading can take place. The link between industry and transport is obvious to the Centre Party, and therefore we invest as heavily as we do in good transportation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e3989	I think the red-green gas power policy deserves a little visit in this financial debate. I had not believed that SV and the Senterpartiet would make unclean gas power living in Norway, and would also openly subsidize emissions of several million tonnes of CO2 per year. The Progress Party has previously been alone on such a policy in Norway, but with the Red-Greens, the Progress Party has become a company. The state of the government's gas power policy is that it is bankrupt. In 2005, the government promised to clean the gas power plant at Kårstø by 2009. In 2006, the government promised to clean Mongstad by 2014. We all remember the Prime Minister's New Year's speech from 2007. Today, neither Kårstø nor Mongstad can the government promise purification by 2020. If this becomes reality, we can probably see far after fulfilling the objectives of the climate agreement from this room. This is serious – a serious message for our climate. When the cleaning plans go into the sink, one would believe that the government, a government with SV and the Senterparteen on board, would at least ensure that Mongstad and Kårstø gas power stations were required to pay for their CO2 emissions – but then one. The red-green emitters subsidise the CO2 emissions of Kårstø and Mongstad by over 0.5 billion. kr per year. Compared to the gas power plant on Snow White, which pays full CO2 tax and full quota price, Kårstø and Mongstad escape with a tenth of the CO2 tax and are allocated all their allowances free of charge from the State. Annulment of moon landing, scrapping of Kårstø cleaning and subsidising emissions is the largest political defeat in Norwegian policy in very many years, and this will color the legacy of the red-green government. It's going to be a coal black legacy. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we propose full CO2 tax on Kårstø and Mongstad, as on Snow White. We'll give 55 million. SEK to resume the tendering procedure for full scale cleaning on Kårstø. The government violates the polluter-pays principle – a key principle of the Soria Moria Declaration, a key principle of festivities, but unfortunately not a key principle of the concrete policy that is currently going through this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4028	In the newspaper today, Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen say that they have found together. I'm happy for them. But this is a political partnership that can permanently change School Norway. We're at risk of leaving a good public common school with a few private supplements to a public common school with an unpredictable number of private school entries and commercial private schools. It will weaken the content of the common school because it will drain it of resources, and it will weaken the education of the common school because those who can afford it will choose private schools for their children. In total it will create an A-layer and a B-layer in School-Norway. What's kind of funny is that the right hand almost doesn't recognize this. The representative Aspaker even felt the need to clarify that the right rates in the primary school. I also record that the Right does not mention the private schools in its alternative budget. They are not even credited with a footnote in the 78-page alternative budget. But in the debate of the throne, right-wing leader Erna Solberg finally had to admit in his closing post that, after all, they wanted the old law of free school that gives a free slip to private schools. They wanted it back. When Solberg says today that they have found together with the Advancement Party, we must take it seriously. Yes, according to Dagbladet, the representative of Solberg even says that it is the Advance Party that has approached the Right, and not the other way around. Then we can just assume that when the Advance Party is adding 70 million. kr extra in grants to private schools, this is close to the priorities that the Right considers to be correct. We don't have to wonder what this means in practice. We've seen parts of it before. It was the Right that opened up a foreign school group to open private schools in Norway. It was the Right who tempted private school owners to send applications that represented a doubling of the number of private school places. It was the Right who subsequently had to see that the private John Bauer schools in Oslo and Bergen, which they themselves had approved, were charged millions of dollars by the Education Directorate because the schools had broken the assumption that all the income would benefit the students. One of the first things we did in the government offices was to stop the privatisation policy to the right parties. We want a good public general school for everyone. We don't want an A team and a B team in school. Now that the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves say that they have found together, I have some school policy challenges for them: Can the Right Party and the Advance Party guarantee that they will not allow schools to make money in Norwegian students? Can they guarantee that they will not weaken the public common school with private schools that bottle up the common school of resources? Can they guarantee that they will not let market thinking into school? It would be okay to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4055	Eastfold has been marked by the anti-business policy of the government. Not only in the case of charges that lead to an ever-increasing level of border trade, but also in the case of framework conditions for renewable energy companies, the government’s fiscal policy has had negative consequences. The loss of tenders is the result of both months and years spent by the government in making reasonable decisions to allow Norwegian combustion plants a small opportunity to compete with their Swedish colleagues, and the much-mentioned biodiesel case led to the bankruptcy of Uniol, which was to produce renewable fuels. The members of the government of the parties devalue what happened in the biodiesel case, but unforeseeable framework conditions and charges that contribute to distortions of competition have adverse effects long after the government has removed the charges. Unforeseeable framework conditions also affect the bet of foreign and local investors who fear that similar unpredictable curvatures from the red-green government can lead to great losses. Unlike the government, the Progress Party will ensure that Moss Airport Rygge can develop into an international airport. We will provide competitive framework conditions, including: to create development in business and new jobs. The government also impedes the development of businesses by means of the new Planning and Building Act that prevents local politicians from making decisions to create developments in the county. The Minister of Finance said earlier today that welfare services should not depend on the individual’s economy, but the government’s policy leads to the opposite. Health insurance and private treatment are increasing when the government only allows patients who pay privately to take advantage of large parts of the existing treatment provision. The Prime Minister obviously does not know the situation. He was proud that the Ringvoll clinic actually had an agreement with Health South-East. Yes, that's right – agreement for four operations out of the 25 that they can perform. Then there is a lot of free capacity left. So how does the government make sure people get over from social security to work? It is not nice that the government does not understand the policy of the Progress Party. By providing quick treatment, getting people healthy, and helping people to get to work, you will avoid the fact that more people are disabled. The government cuts in the action areas. They're cutting in the VTA places. The organisation grant will not be improved. There is no reason to believe that there will be more of them, and perhaps precisely because of the social benefits that the government has entered into, it is difficult for the municipalities to create enough places. The number of younger unemployed and insured persons is increasing. The progress party says no to passive social benefits for younger people. It needs to be focused on getting young people to work. In the case of municipalities, property taxes are increasing, and that is contrary to what the government has promised. The government has promised that taxes will not increase. Property taxes are also taxes, and for most people it doesn't matter who collects the tax. The property tax affects individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4075	We all want to live safe and good lives. Security for life and health, family, house and home are important to everyone. Safety can be built in many ways, including: through a responsible economic policy pursued by the Government. The judiciary policy of the Government also contributes to security. When the Bondevik II government was history, there were nearly 3,000 convicted in a row. This long queue led to great frustration: frustration on the part of victims who knew that the perpetrators were going free while waiting to be summoned to punish their criminal frustration on the part of the people in criminal custody who felt that they never had the head over the water frustration on the part of the convicted themselves, who would like to punish them, so that they could get on with life as law-abiding citizens and last but not least great frustration on the part of people most of the unreasonablely long settlement queues This was an unsustainable situation in which it had to be cleaned up. The government started a major effort with a big message pointing out the direction of the criminal justice system. The message was given the descriptive name Penalty that works — less crime — safer societies. We are now seeing significant results from the government's targeted efforts. Appropriations of nearly 2 billion have, among other things: As a result, the number of criminal execution sites increased from 2006 to around 800. Of these, about 650 are new prison sites. The content of housing has been significantly improved through school departments and libraries, drug retention units and nav in prison — to mention something. I have spent a lot of time getting into the field of justice and have, among other things, visited well over half of all prisons. The people in criminal care do a great job for individuals and society and deserve a lot of honor. On my prison tour, I have met many inmates who have told me that the content of the settlement is crucial. The story of the person who took a letter in the car subject during a reconciliation, and who got a regular job in the company where he had a practice, made a strong impression on me. He was about to be released and reunited with his girlfriend. Now he could afford to buy his own apartment and start his life. Ruble problems, and thus the constant pursuit of money and related crime, were replaced by completed education, work and housing — a real history of sunshine that shows that it benefits. In May this year, a Nordic relapse study was presented. It shows that Norway is getting the best out, with a relapse rate of 20 pst. It is a good contribution to a safer society to reduce relapse rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4105	After hearing a lot of comments tonight, one would think that one was at a debate camp in the AUF: Say so much negatively you can handle the opponents, that is. The right-hand parts, in three minutes! In post-intervention interventions, own budgets have been set aside — the last intervention was, to the extent of an exception — and own policies have been hidden away and unsophisticated attacks on the Right have been carried out at the hesitant pace of incubation and outburst. I wonder if there's a premium set up to distribute at the end of Christmas to the red-green politician who manages to say the most negative about his opponents in 3 minutes. This debate reveals a government on the defensive. The main theme is how bad it will be when Norway receives a new government in 2013. Because it seems almost read and decided in the many posts that there will be a change, and that it will be interesting to hear who will be included. Is that the Right and Advance Party? Is it the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, etc.? It's been the main theme of the red-greens. I have to say it must be a bit ridiculous for a finance minister to sit and hear that his party traps and others from the red-greens are only concerned with the politics of others and do not highlight what they themselves should think was a good budget. But, all right: Heikki Holmås made an article earlier this evening. Since he's head of my committee, I feel like I have to comment on it. He had a declaration of love for Norwegian districts. I share that love too. But according to Holmås, the best district policy was to provide good municipal economy through transfers from the state. I agree that one needs a good local economy, but the basis for that local economy must be the value creation that takes place locally. After all, it must be the development of a dynamic business that provides tax revenue and that allows for the development of municipal welfare. There's something the red-green government has deliberately tried to weaken over the years it's been sitting. During the Bondevik II government it was like that 50 pst. tax revenue was retained in its own municipality. Before that, a share of the corporate tax, the corporate tax to be returned to the municipality, was left in the municipality. Now this incentive is gone. So what's left over? There is no incentive in the local economy to create jobs locally. Everything is going into the state register to be distributed smoothly from the government. This is not a good business policy. When Heikki Holmås says that the best district policy is to operate with the distribution of funds from the treasury, I have to say that I understand that focusing on the development of industry is secondary. Right will strengthen business development locally, including the Norwegian Centres of Expertise, Arena and other things, for which the representative Holmelid was concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4118	Our new pension system has been created to ensure good pension conditions for new generations and to prevent welfare schemes from falling below the burden of future pension burdens. Social security, compulsory occupational pension and other occupational pensions will, in sum, provide future pensioners with better retirement benefits than ever. The real value of our pensions will increase by 50 pst. towards 2050 – provided that we continue to keep up with governments that keep the economy in order. Only one party stands outside the political agreement on the Pension Reform. The progress party has gradually moved from flat minimum pension to all to today's improved version pension scheme. In other words, when the other party on the Stortinget realized that the current pension system is neither sustainable nor fair, the Progress Party chose to send a gigantic pension bill to future generations. In 40 years, and we have to think so far in the pension context, an extension of today's pension scheme will cost 42 billion. kr more per year calculated in 2008-krona than the new pension scheme. Then there will be fewer active people to share the bill. 42 B.C.E. 2008 dollars a year is quite a lot of money. For such an amount, we can actually give nursing homes to everyone who needs it, give poor children good growth conditions and then have money left to meet some of the promotion promises. But, of course, it is too much to demand that the Progress Party should see such contexts. In the years ahead, we will need more labour, including: to care for more and more elderly people, who live longer and who will need more care and care towards the end of their lifetime. One of the main objectives of the Pension Reform is therefore that it should be profitable to work longer. A couple of numbers can explain what's going on. If the average retirement age increases by six months, annual pension expenditure is reduced by 12 billion. kr, and the value creation is about twice as high. Now we shouldn't expect a party to think from one poll to the next, to have particular concern for future generations. But the Progress Party is going to go into government with the Right, and the Right is part of the pension agreement, and they should worry about a future government partner who happily puts the pension agreement over the board. For this reason, it is primarily the Right’s task to relinquish the pension commitments of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4131	Representatives of the Red-Green Government have today made a large number of good district policies and, at the same time, another government option will be a disaster for District Norway. It kind of surprises me. I represent a part of District Norway, which is the North Throne Team. There are many professionals who are not very satisfied today. To make people live in the districts, it's important that they have something to live from. In rural areas, many jobs are linked to agriculture and forestry. It does not sound very good when the SV rapporteur in Namskogan, Kari Ystgård, says – and she talks about predatory policy: ‘The day’s policy cannot continue where the farmers are zeigpines.’ The central party rapporteur, Vigdis Hjulstad Belbo, in Snåsa, is so desperate that she now sends letters to the King asking for help. She writes: ‘The situation for the southern Sami tamrein operation is now dramatic due to very large predatory losses over time. For many years, this message has been delivered to government and Storting without any commitment to take action being followed up. [[...]] [[...]] In our despair that no active action will be taken, we ask His Majesty the King for help." I can't believe that the Center Party, which claims to be the guarantor of viable districts in Norway, is pleased with this development. It must be said that something strange has to be said that a central party rapporteur has to ask the King for help in district policy. At least there can be no central part of the government knocking on the chest for and are very pleased with. Another major source of income in the districts is the forest — well to note when it is operated. The forest industry is the third largest industry in the region and the largest export industry in the region. A major obstacle in this industry is the practice of INNON, i.e. non-interventional areas. Much of the old forest lacks infrastructure built-in, and the mature forest is rotting while the forest industry sorely needs timber. The right is also in order to preserve and preserve particularly vulnerable areas, but considers that the rules for non-interventional areas need to be re-defined. It could not be good for national policies to allow good forests to rot when they could be part of the value added and new forests at the same time could allow for greater CO2 capture. The right is often attacked by government parties because we want to upset agriculture. It is right that the Right wants a different agricultural policy, a policy in which the use of money is more beneficial to the active operators of industries, a policy of reduced detailed governance by government bodies, a policy which more stimulates production and value creation in districts, a policy in which today's co-operations in milk production have a framework condition, so that they survive and not increasingly, as today, have to decline due to the framework conditions and the subsidy schemes. I'm just asking, where has it become by the guarantor of good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4164	There has been an interesting debate, and it has been an interesting harvest in particular, especially when one has witnessed the attempt of the Right to both jump from its history and jump from its policies. It was almost so that you could get lumps in your throat when you heard Erna Solberg talk hot about a society with little differences. Actually, this is the total triumph of social democracy in Norwegian politics, because even the right parties recognize that the social code in Norway is that people want a society with little differences between people. But unfortunately, it's probably just empty rhetoric. In particular, we see that when we look at the Right Policy and what they are actually proposing. We can start with the time when the Right was in government. We remember very well that in Verdal, while Erna Solberg was a municipal minister, 20 teachers had to resign. I remember very well a meeting I had with school drivers from a non-profit that feared the fresh air, because commercial actors were going to overrun them. We also very well remember a strong meeting with a driver of a nursing home who had to cut right into her offer to the elderly, and who actually sat and considered having to cut out pain relief for elderly cancer patients. It was the reality of Erna Solberg as Minister of State. We can also look at the Right's proposal for amended tax arrangements, where a person with 350,000 kroner per year gets NOK 2 000 less in tax per year. It's money that's probably coming along well. You get almost enough to pay the extra 200 kroner a month it costs with the Right proposal to raise the price in kindergarten, i.e. a tax tightening actually. But it becomes even more obvious when we see that you make over 3 million. NOK, you get NOK 60,000 in tax bills. I would like an explanation from the Right on what contribution this is to creating a society with less differences. In addition, we know that they want to cooperate with the Progress Party, an ice blue government option, which will attack the Working Environment Act, the rights of the unemployed and a privatisation hunt. So you have to rule with a party president who has said that there will be total change and market thinking at all levels. How is such an alternative to create a society with less differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4173	Right is a batch that will take all the tools to create good safety nets. Right is a party that puts action and concrete action in front of rhetorical grips where a lot of time and effort is spent trying to hijack whether it's the Nordic model, which has gradually been reduced to the Norwegian model, or, as it is now, monopolise values for the Workers' Party, or social democracy. In this debate, there have been several attacks on the right's various ways of thinking about well-being, and child protection is one of those areas where, not least the SV's representatives – the representative Thorkildsen, quite bravely, I would say – have targeted an attack on the right. I say it's brave, because child protection hasn't exactly been a parade for this government. We've been through four state councils for five years, where there's little actually happened, perhaps with an honorable exception for the state council that's now sitting. I would say that the Council of State Lighthouse has at least talked about some things he will do, and then let's give him the chance to also show that he's fond of completing it. I love him, and I like to come with that rose, because it's important. It's important that we take care of child protection. And the right grip on child protection is about having a humility in relation to seeing if the organization is optimal. We allow ourselves to doubt it. What has been described here as a furrowing of state child protection is, in fact, a visibility in the budget of a desire for a stronger bet on the municipalities by moving 300 million. kr from the State Children's Protection to the Municipal Council, a grip which in itself is parallel to that of the Government. Right wants to ensure the diversity of child protection. Instead of having a single-minded debate about private or public service providers, we might have a debate on how to preserve diversity. I would like to hear the government parties tell us how they intend to preserve diversity if you cut off half of today's institutions – that's the course we're at. Right-hand wants the offer to have the tailor's eye for the kids who need it the most. We want the diversity of that offer, which should actually provide the most optimal solutions for the individual child. So this is a debate that has to be about concrete measures, not monotonous ideological issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4182	First of all, I should like to say a few words to the representative Trond Helleland about the fact that the Red-Green politicians are using their speaking time on the policy of the Right and the Progressive Party. I really think he should be happy about that, because he spent himself just four seconds on his own policy. The world is raging around us, unrest and rebellion are commonplace in several countries. In their own home country, employees in the industry have experienced the financial crisis in everyday life. Permits and uncertainties characterise large parts of the country’s export industry. Nevertheless, Norway is an island of tranquillity in an uproared sea. Peace comes as a result of long-term red-green politics. The government has run the country through the financial crisis, and the Stortinget has taken decisions that have given priority to children, drug treatment and the elderly. Labour market policy has kept unemployment low and the local economy has been strengthened. That's more to do – this year's budget shows that we continue in the right direction. Priority is given to strengthening the three pillars of the welfare state: broad tax base and redistribution, universal public welfare services and broad cooperation with the trade movement on the broad lines of labour market policy. The Progress Party and the Right have now publicly declared allegiance to each other. We're going to get a dark blue government. While the Progress Party appears to be more irresponsible than in economic policy for a long time, the Right presents its policy as a purely labour party policy. It's almost like I'm tempted to pull out the incubator. But it's still the way a voice to the Right is to give the Advance Party power. The representative Gundersen from the Right said that people “do not recognize” in our presentation of Right Policy. It's probably the way it's right that doesn't recognize its own policy. But Erna Solberg clarified it: right-hand drive good, old-fashioned right-hand policy. It is this: a reduction in the protection of employees. In several proposals, they stand together with the Progress Party on attacks on tripartite cooperation, and they remove the deduction from trade union quota. Right will be an accident for the value creation of West Agder. The right removes 1.5 billion. Regional development – bureaucracy is what they call it. The NODE clusters and the EYDE network receive more than 4 million annually. through these appropriations - resources that develop skills and create innovation and development for Ageds. The representative of Gundersen thought that their 400 million. kr for industrial development was a good substitute. Right-hand sluts in homework at the primary school stage eliminate the birth rate and agricultural resources of 1,7 billion. kr. This right-hand side is going to be 10 billion. kr on tax bill. They talk little about what will happen to those who lose their jobs as a result of agricultural and municipal policy. This is the Right Valuation Policy. So, yes, the right is recognizable. They are not the workers they are engaged in when cutting regional development funds, agriculture and measures for children. The important effort on the Right's budget is tax-free of 10 billion. kr. That's good, old-fashioned right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4199	For those who should be so particularly interested that they have followed this debate during the day, and who were still going to endure, I think it must shine quite special, but perhaps also with a pattern, where you see that red-greens go to frontal attacks on what you fear would be cooperation parties for the future. And I think it's very easy to think that's what you do when you want to hide your own policy. I've heard Tajik, Gullvåg and Stokkan-Grande stand in the line of those who have talked about everyone but themselves. I myself was in Verdal and met people who were very satisfied with the Bondevik II government, and who were pleased that we were granted rights to drug users, an individual thought, and the same health and specialist health rights, which they had not received under Stoltenberg I. I met poor people, those who absolutely needed extra attention, and for whom the government has now cancelled the action plan, who were very pleased with the country's first action plan on poverty, for which Stoltenberg I did not pay any attention at all. And I met many users in Verdal who were happy that we started the work that has provided the basis for coordination of Aetat, Social Security and Social Service. So there are other stories in Verdal, which were the result of the policy that party leader Solberg led, in a government that I was also part of. The right has in its alternative budget a plan for the future in the same way as we showed in the Bondevik II government. We're concerned with the generational perspective, and so far I've realized that there are also the parties in today's government, but, as you say in Eastfold, it can't be so bad to inherit a worn-out railway. So the government downgrades transportation. The government has adventurous incomes on which most countries are envious, but they do not have the power to outsource a course that guarantees Norway’s well-being. We want a new course for the future, we want new solutions, but it has so far been a standstill for the railway, and the government is unable to use the funds allocated. You should have a revolution, with a new timetable. It's exposed indefinitely. And it came all the way back to the government that you had a bigger lag in maintenance when the summer was over, than what you knew five years ago. We have proposed maintenance for 50 billion. kr. This would double the maintenance budget for the railway, but it will require institutions and departments and governments that are able to make sure that they are able to use the money they are making available. Not so far. Entrepreneurs say that there is no plan competence and capacity in Norway. They are so far not asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4212	The government delivers a solid commitment to school and education. And that is absolutely necessary to achieve the government's goal of work and well-being. A good education system in which all have the same opportunities is a foundation for the welfare society. The common school gave us as a nation the opportunity to use abilities and creativity of the entire population, not just parts of it, and it gave individuals the opportunity to make their own choices and develop their own lives. The school policy of the Workers' Party has been about giving more education to more and more people throughout our history. Under the previous government, where the Right and Advance Party had great influence, we saw a break with this line. It was again the ones with the most money, the ones that had already done the best, that would get most of the options. This budget announces that it will also be the line if we were to get a blue-blue government at the next crossroads. On the school budget, the party of progress in initial training totals more than 169 million. kr. In their budget, they've also redeployed, and they're worth 75 million. kr more for private schools. The Progress Party thus adheres to its old plan to frustrate public welfare in order for more people to choose private solutions. The working party wants a strong public school that focuses on quality and learning for everyone. My claim is that this is the opposite we will get with the Progress Party. The progress party often says that they want to have a school for the individual. My claim is that they will make good schools for some people: those who are the best, and those who can afford to pay for it. In addition, several of the Party's schoolcuts are well hidden. They will prohibit municipalities from levying taxes on property. That means minus 6 billion. kr in total for Kommune-Norway. In addition, the right has vetoed this room today against the uninhibited oil industry of the Progress Party, which is 5.8 billion. – The party’s own figures – as the municipalities will not receive a new government either. When the party also cuts the appropriations for the county municipality, can they ask their own politicians out there what they want priority: school or road? The game is known as also against tolls, so then I guess the choice should be clear. School and next generation education are too important to become a progress party experiment. That, as I say, is the foundation of our whole society. The Progress Party shows in its dream budget that the common school is not important to them. That's it for the Workers' Party. We're going to make school better for everyone, not just for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4231	For us in the Labour Party, policy is about choice. This is a budget that points towards a more fair society and a strengthening of well-being. Our red-green government delivers good results in terms of Europe's lowest unemployment rate and a well-functioning welfare society. But there are, of course, examples of areas that can and should be better. But let's stop a little bit at the time of unemployment. For us in the Workers' Party, a unemployed person is too much. But it is no coincidence that in Norway we are doing so well economically and employment in relation to many other countries. It is largely a result of the Norwegian social-democratic model of society, which is opposed to the international crisis, which is the result of a lack of governance. The Right Party and the Advance Party talk little about this, because they realize that it was actually their policy that was up to the exam, and that the result was a financial crisis and thus a blackout. So what goes on? The choice is between the Right-Fremskrit Party policy and a continued red-green policy. Then it helps little that the Right has learned from the rhetoric of the Advance Party, a rhetoric that is about defending the welfare community, in combination with a policy that is about tearing down the world's most successful welfare society. It's acts that count and not words. The right-wing Party policy is about creating insecurity in the labour market, tax cuts – especially for the richest – and a strong privatisation of welfare. The result of such a policy would be great differences and ‘tolls’ on welfare, where the wallet will largely determine what kind of welfare services you will receive. So it just gets sad and wanted to hear the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party talk today about a society with equal opportunities and little differences, when they don't at all follow it up with a policy that will make it possible, but on the contrary contributes to the opposite. We in the Workers' Party will continue to work hard to maintain and further develop the Norwegian welfare model, where everyone is going through hard work and split layers. This is in stark contrast to the Norwegian tea company of the Right and Advance Party, which will result in very many falling outside society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4242	The theme in my article is justice. In recent years, the government has had a deliberate strategy to prevent violence against children. The Vendpoint action plan has contributed to ensuring the assistance and protection of those who are exposed to the election and to the rehabilitation of those who use it. It is now the family council coordinator in all the police districts of the country and seven children's houses throughout the country, and the right to aid lawyer and compensation for victims is strengthened. The introduction of the obituary testing measure when children die unexpectedly is very important. Many have done so when it comes to repair and rehabilitation. And I'm glad that the justice sector in this budget makes room for action to continue with the important work of fighting violence against children. Nevertheless, a great deal can still be done when it comes to prevention. We all know the story of Christoffer in eight years, who was abused to the death of his stepfather, in his own bed – where he would feel most secure. In the judgment against stepfather, a reader could read: ‘Christians failed by everyone, including their own mother.’ She refused that the abuse occurred, and went free. In Danish law, since 1938, parents who do not report that the party exercises power against the child have been convicted. Formulaions in today's criminal law open in isolation to judge the passive party. Law is not the problem. An important prevention measure will therefore be to reinforce the obligation to notify the chosen person. We must make it quite clear to school and kindergarten staff and others working with children that the reporting obligation is over all the obligations as soon as there is reasonable suspicion of abuse. There is a responsibility that the support device must be strictly conscious of. But this responsibility is a paradox as long as we still don't ask the question, where was the mother when Dad hit? Children become innocent when the nearest caregiver in practice is not punished for neglecting the authority. The goal of the government must be to cooperate with the State Attorney in order to develop a legal tradition in order not to intervene as well. And I believe that the general preventive effect of seeing such a criminal offence will seem prejudicial. Furthermore, the courts must actively exploit their ability to exaggerate abuses and participate in mind-meistering programs in prison. And criminal services must be given clear guidelines for how this rehabilitation is going to be done. The answer to what it is like to live in a country is often found in how one treats the most vulnerable. The budget is a good starting point for securing the legal certainty they actually enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4262	The President may inform us that with the speakers who have now been received, we are due – for now – to begin voting at noon. 01.15.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4265	Norway is an energy nation. We can thank you for that: first, the amazing gifts nature has given us, second, that we have had the political ability and the will to use these gifts in a way that benefits the community. Energy is worth a lot of money, whether it comes in the form of oil and gas or electricity. For the Workers' Party, it is clear that the country's large and natural energy resources are the property of all of us. When Norway was a poor country in Europe, we secured the right to return to renewable hydropower. Petroleum policy has made choices that are important to finance our well-being. In 2010 – this year – we in Stortinget adopted the new Law on Marine Energy, which will ensure that the future renewable resources will also benefit the community. Therefore, the Marine Energy Act is social democracy in practice. In 40 years, 2010 could be seen as a new landmark for Norway as an energy nation. Having been in the Transport and Communications Committee for eight years, it would be natural to say a little about that sector also in the financial debate. We announced the journey promise of the times when we had adopted our national transport plan in 2009. That meant an increase of 100 billion. kr. Everyone wants better roads, lanes and ports, but not everyone has money for it. Bondevik II, with the Progress Party as a supporting party, prioritised tax cuts and did not follow up the previous national transport plan with appropriations promised. The 2011 budget includes: So let's stop the decay on the roads. It gives you a new asphalt, and it gives you a higher standard. We're laying 1,000 kilometers of new asphalt on the highways. We're increasing maintenance on the railway. We're fulfilling the promise of a rasmilliard. We will reward cities that rate on traffic regulation measures and good public transport. Work until all are jobs. one. We need to secure work for everyone and create tomorrow's jobs. Norway has come through the financial crisis with an active policy with Europe's lowest unemployment. We're gonna be proud of that. We're going to continue the fight to keep unemployment low and make the most of it in the community. In close cooperation with the social partners, we will keep employment high. One of the first things that the red-green government did was to stop the right-hand side's fury of the Working Environment Act. We believe that people provide the best in proper working conditions. That is why we must also continue the fight against social dumping and to ensure that non-resident workers working in Norway are properly paid, contracted and employed. The working party shall and will always be the guarantor of a decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4280	Today, as a conservative politician, I have been characterised as blue-blue, cold, representative of a selfish policy of distribution and, last but not least, a politician in the service of the rich. Conservative policies are based on the belief in the abilities of individuals. Conservative politics have the belief that man develops himself and creates the good life with others. For the Right, community is crucial, but community is far more than the public sector alone. A secure and viable community is best developed by providing those living there with opportunities, means and power to create the best solutions. If the idea of building the good community from below means I'm blue-blue and cold, yes, I am. If my wish for entrepreneurs to create more and safer jobs by means of lower taxation means that I stand for a selfish distribution policy and am in the service of the rich, I guess so. I take that with a crushing calm, because I know that I'm not in the eyes of many local politicians who are concerned about getting opportunities, power and resources to create good communities, or for the many who put their savings on creating jobs both in the districts and in more urban areas. Such a view of society means that it is openly accepted that different communities make different choices, and it involves scepticism for central orientation, rigid regulation and decisions taken far away from those to which they relate. I am therefore a former Right-Rapporteur with opinions in sharp contrast to what the representative Heikki Holmås claims he has met on his recently completed education trip. Both as a local politician and rapporteur, I learned that the political idea that good society is being built from below had a considerably better position under the Bondevik government than under the current red-green regime. The red-green arguments are also strange when they're talking about privatisation. For the right, it is to use both the private and the public sectors as a means of ensuring diversity, good and sufficient services. Step-by-step, we like to call it. For the red-greens, it is only right to use the private option if it benefits the red-green project. So it's only right when the prime minister has to make sure that he's the best friend in the private business world, and he can give an example of the fixation system and the nursery project. When I can also mention large protective processes barely anchored locally and the new Christmas age where you sometimes take the trick out to present a billion here and a billion there for good, I see disoriented and frustrated local politicians and residents, not red-green happiness. Then I have better faith that our model creates safe communities with engaged people. I am sure that Norway will be better off with more and more blue conservative politicians. Then I'm actually sure that I'm a hot politician with a project that gives everyone equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4297	The national budget on page 53 contains a sober but important sentence: ‘The country’s net cash flow from the petroleum activity is estimated at 288 billion. crowns in 2011.’» This is part of the budget that has not received the attention it deserves. Because it's not like the money's flowing up from a source below the seabed. There is both hard work and a lot of thought behind these revenues. I am concerned to point out that the extraction of oil and gas are demanding operations that involve a significant risk both in terms of safety and the environment. Strict rules, active authority bodies and good safety culture are necessary to minimise the risk of major accidents in the petroleum industry. In recent times, there has been a debate on the handling of the Gullfaks C incident. In the media, the representative of the Progress Party, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, has been offensive and had clear opinions on how the supervision should have dealt with the matter. It is good that Solvik-Olsen is active in the media on behalf of security. I also welcome this debate. The special feature of this is that the Progress Party in its alternative budget calls for the dismantling of Petroleum Control by bringing it together with the Labour Inspectorate. For me, this makes no more logical than merging the Mission Company with the Norwegian Football Federation. It's not going to be better minding or better football for that reason. The two inspections have some very different tasks. Nor has the Progress Party allocated funds to the merger process in its budget. I hope that the representative of Solvik-Olsen or the head of the Labour and Social Committee, Eriksson, will be able to explain why this is a proposal that will strengthen offshore safety. But I'm going to give honey to the Progress Party. They have removed their proposal last year to cut the two inspections of 58 million. kr. The centre party takes serious work on offshore security. We still have to make improvements and learn from events that happen. But it is important that we establish our own and active oversight of the petroleum industry. This must be located near the headquarters of the major oil companies. I should like the Progress Party to agree with that. The maximum focus on safety is one of the conditions for us to continue to be able to operate with the sentence in the future: «The country’s net cash flow from the petroleum activity [[...]] This is a boring sentence, but it makes the budgetary process considerably easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4319	Every year many artists and culturalists receive financial support from the state. This is a support scheme which will be removed once again by the Progress Party. I want to show you an example of why this system is very important. In Telemark, we have a young and promising hardworking felon and player, Ottar Kåsa, from Bø, who, because of precisely these crowns, can work on developing the faulty and caring for our national cultural heritage. If one had removed this support, it would have meant a much poorer art and cultural life. This year, the government is continuing 256 ordinary work grants and 167 work grants for young/new-established artists. In addition, it is now proposed to create 10 new work grants. These scholarships, these crowns, we get a lot more. This support has a large local and regional significance as well as national. It has an impact on the development of the lack of culture and, not least, on the attractiveness of both local and regional areas. We, who come from the districts, know how important this attraction is to Bygde-Noreg. I thought it was alarming that the Progress Party could manage to use 8,5 billion. kr more on the state budget than the government and yet choose to propose a 1 billion cultural cut. kr. With so much monopoly money, it is quite clear that culture is not a priority area. If it were, they would have found money for it too. Government's goal at 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture by 2014, has been attempted ridiculed by the opposition. That's when it's so good that we can say with certainty that we're on track to achieve that goal. With next year's government budget, we've increased the rewards of culture by a total of 3.3 billion. kr since we took over in 2005. A commitment in the field of culture is important to each and every one of us. It brings communities and experiences, and it gives us a richer society. Art and culture are more than an opera and a large national museum. Culture is the revision festival on the Highlands, it's the international theatre festival in Porsgrund, it's the chocolate race in Seljord, it's the local village cinema and it's the ten-year-old who goes on guitar education in the cultural sphere, to learn something. It is everything from the small, everyday cultural activities of the major national institutions and events. The struggle for social orientation continues through the small steps and the choices that take place every day. It wouldn't be in our wildest imagination to cut in the cultural field by 1 billion. kr. Today, as in the morning, the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government will continue to strengthen the cultural field, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4341	Yesterday I participated in the distribution of different innovation prices. The Creator force of the year was arranged. It was inspiring hours, and I could proudly record that two of the prices given went to Sunnmøre: the trade price at Bunker Oil in Ålesund and the travel life price at Juvet Landskapshotell in the municipality of Norddal. The review tone for all nominees was the need for someone to believe in them in planning new projects, and not least good framework conditions. The Christian People's Party is committed to improving the basic framework conditions for value creation. Increased investment in research and development is necessary for a business that will bear the costs for future generations. We increase the funds to, among other things, innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises with 20 million. kr. Seed funds for initial investment are increasing by 25 million. kr. The furniture industry is an important industry in my home country. Therefore, Innovation Furniture has been an important investment, a investment that today's government has unfortunately put on ice. Innovation Furniture has led to the innovation and internationalisation of the Norwegian furniture industry. We need to continue this development. The Christian People's Party has therefore strengthened Innovation Furniture by 20 million. kr in its alternative budget. I have to repeat once again the disappointment that the government is not following its election promises from August 2009. On 26 August, the Nutrient Council visited Sykylven and promised to continue the innovation funds for the furniture industry. The government has this year provided additional funding to various industries, and that's good. There are different packages of measures for a period that have been difficult for parts of Norwegian business. Then follow-up of the election vows had also been very important for the furniture industry. The Christian People's Party has asked for this support on several occasions. In reply to questions to the Council of State Giske, he referred to Innovation Norway, and Innovation Norway has referred to a lack of letters of assignment. No one takes responsibility. Many small and medium-sized furniture companies face challenges to position themselves in the international market. Small enterprises are more vulnerable to developing their own solutions internationally. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is important to support existing enterprises in terms of both the social economy and employment. This is also good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4356	After listening to the debate, I think it seems perfectly obvious that the Right now wants to put on some new clothes – yes, maybe even dress out. They try to present themselves as more pure-haired in a welfare perspective, but it seems that it's just the outer fabric they show, because on the inside we see a clear profile that's bluer than ever. In the media and in the pulpit, they flirt wildly and uninhibited with the Party of Advancement, as they make up their message to the voters with a socialist tone. Maybe they're trying to dress like socialists? But is there a connection between word and action? On the right, we say we need to improve education. We're also concerned about that. That's why we've come up with a lot of different approaches to this sector. One example is that we have increased the number of teachers by 4,650 since 2005 – as opposed to Right, who cut down 1,000 years of teaching when they had power with Bondevik. Based on the enthusiasm of the right after cutting in the public sector, a certain allergy to a strong public sector may be suspected. At the same time as they are concerned with industrial development and framework conditions, and not least with increased supervision of different industries, they are at least equally concerned with cutting their budget. With the large cuts in the public sector proposed, you not only get bad services, they also send a lot of people into unemployment. Income to the community is important. The government is ready for us to have large engines in Norwegian business in public ownership in the future. These shall benefit the community. The Progress Party and the Right, on the other hand, seem very much in agreement that it is wise to sell out important parts of Norwegian-owned companies to trigger one-off incomes, rather than to secure current income for the future. It has been said very wisely about the Norwegian model in the debate, a model government and government parties are concerned about protecting about it. So my message to the right is: this social model is a puzzle made up of many important pieces, and when all the pieces are placed, they act as a strong social engine, where a strong public sector cooperates with the social partners, and the authorities are involved in ensuring the well-being of all. Safe jobs contribute to change and change flows in business. These are important mechanisms that other countries envy us. If the like-socialists start to ‘shop’ pieces of this model for their welfare theme, it will quickly slide and put us into a completely different social direction than today. For the model is complete and cannot be adopted by others – and is completely impossible to buy in pieces and divided. Then social and success criteria are rapidly raked. The 2011 budget contributes to increased value creation and continued high employment. The country of Norway is in a special position, including in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4371	The Progress Party has now presented its alternative government budget for 2011. In my opinion, this party is different from all the others – not only in political terms, but also in the basics of how to organise an effective welfare society. For the Workers' Party, municipalities play a crucial role in the design and organisation of welfare services, and not least that there is a local government that decides what should be given priority in each municipality. The fact that local elected representatives have a decisive influence on kindergartens, primary schools, health services, care and care is a value in itself. In addition, there is evidence that there is an effective way to organise yourself, such as: The Borge Committee shows up in its investigation. The Progress Party has a completely different approach. They believe that the current financing model for the municipal sector has expired. Instead, this party will have a state bureaucratic piece price model for all the basic welfare services and free municipal tax law. The party of progress lives in the belief that this will both balance the differences in offers between those who live in rich municipalities and those who live in the poor, and that there are great savings opportunities in administration and management. It's not like that. One is that such a system will reinforce the differences between municipalities. The municipality that had the second lowest tax income in 2009 received over NOK 13 000 in tax per year. the population. The municipality that had the most received NOK 60000 per person. The population – that is, over four times more. It's not making any smaller differences; it's making the differences in society bigger: more to those who have the most from before. The second is that this is a direct attack on local democracy. The free revenues of municipalities are estimated at NOK 215 billion next year. If we sum up the costs of what is now called basic welfare services, such as: kindergartens, primary schools, health services, social services, care and care – about four out of five dollars are provided freely by municipalities. Then there won't be much left for the municipality to rule, if we take away four out of five dollars. What, then, are we going to do with the local government? Does the Progress Party believe that we do not need local elected representatives? Is the aim of the Progress Party to make the rapporteur more effective? It is a democratic requirement that those who experience the consequences of the policy should also have an influence. Local self-government is based on the values of freedom, participation and efficiency. The solution of the Advance Party will lead to more bureaucrats in Oslo, who will issue cheques to the users and check what is good for the inhabitants – both in Vadsø and Vågå and the other Norwegian municipalities. In other words, more bureaucracy, less local freedom and a clear limitation of opportunities for individual participation in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4386	This year's government budget was well received out among the Norwegian people. So the black measurement from the right-hand side here today is probably just a pure spinal reflex, because the right-hand side will see that this budget is actually very good. Norway is once again the world’s best country to live in. Norway is the country that has come out of the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment in Europe. Norway is ranked number eight on the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ list. Is all of this just random? No, that is the result of a willful policy. The fact that Norway is cutting high on several measurements, that there are good framework conditions for running business, that Norway has high growth and value creation, does not make us unique. But what makes us unique is that in addition to this, we are on top of the world's best country to live in. Right-hand side of his rhetoric about community, the Norwegian model and freedom of choice, is he real? Does the budget underpin the rhetoric? Will the Norwegian model, as we know it, be passed on? No, equal rights and equal opportunities are what give real freedom of choice. Equal opportunities are to have a safety net for everyone, equal opportunities are free health care and elderly care for everyone, equal opportunities are free school, where the son of a disability is in the same class as the daughter of the director of the work. A large, good public sector is actually a hallmark of Norwegian society, on the Norwegian model. When the right-hand side yells that the public sector is growing, yes, there are several hospitals, several teachers, several nurses we talk about. When one talks about the low efficiency of the public sector, yes, it's the teacher and the nurse that are inefficient. The core services of society must be public, not just funded by the public. But the private should be a supplement to the public, so is it today. Today's debate shows that on the one hand there are the red-green parties that want to pass on our society, which is a community based on equal rights and opportunities to all. On the other hand, the Progress Party and the Right stand with tax relief and a desire to commercialise education, health and care. It is a deliberate choice of words when they use the word ‘commercialisation’, because when the Right Party and the Advance Party say something about the Norwegian model, they mean the core enterprises like schools, hospitals and health, which are to be opened for private, paid by the public, and that without compromising the profits. [[President clubs]] That means they accept that the tax money makes the individuals rich rather than the tax dollars... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4401	That was the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4405	Four years ago, as an alternate, I took part in my first financial debate here in Stortinget. Then I talked about lifelong learning, and I especially drew out the study associates as important tools, because they quickly adapt to the skills needs of society. And through the financial crisis, the study federations have proved to be very useful to the companies that had to change or maybe permit or deputize. This was not least the case in my own home country, Uppland. There has been a rich implementation of education and training. On this basis, it is scary to read the alternative state budget of the Advance Party and the Right. Both parties cut in the study associations by 50 million. kr. The center party works to develop the study associations, not to wind them up. Six billion four hundred and twenty-one million four hundred and forty-four thousand – that's the sum the Progress Party wants to cut in agriculture next year's budget. A conversion package of 1.5 billion has been added. kr, but when you are going to do a guided winding-up of Norwegian agriculture as we know it, as this actually means, I understand that it will cost money. It's incomprehensible to me that a party, when we have the world's food situation as a rug, can put itself on such an unsolvable line in agricultural policy. I come from a 10 pst.-state in the field of agriculture. We have 10 pst on the statistics. in most agricultural production. Agriculture is the backbone of settlement in several of the regions of my county. The consequences of the agricultural policy of the Advance Party in Uppland, and in many other countries, will be serious. Finally, in the coming years, the road will be built in Uppland as never before, thanks to an ambitious national transport plan adopted by the Red-Greens. Among other things, the E16 through Valdres on the line Fønhus-Bagn-Bjørgo will be built, a project that has been wanted for years. Now the project is approaching realization, and the Progress Party is at the barricades against tolls. And I understand that, because with the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, there will be no people left in Valdres to use the road, and therefore you don't have to bomb either. That's why I'm glad it's the Center Party that's in government, because with us, roads are being built here and there, and there's still going to be a stake in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4418	First of all, I would like to make one claim: the pressure against public welfare systems is increasing again. Both the Advance Party and the Right are now eager to get into position to get the commercialization of, among other things. school and health in this country. These parties, with their policies, and other strong forces in society are now opening up the core business of the welfare state to a wide gap for private investors. Today, we were confirmed by the representative Siv Jensen in her reply to the Prime Minister. The Progress Party and the Right have both in their 2011 alternative budgets a desire to spend half a billion on, among other things, the purchase of drugs. private patient treatment. Privatisation of public welfare services has never been a major choice winner in Norway. The right-hand side has therefore wrapped this in cotton. The right-hand side has therefore launched its privatisation policy under constant new terms. The right-hand side's tribute is competition, so freedom of choice and Public Private Cooperation, and ultimately innovation and creativity. But whatever they call it, the result is the same: private capital has to come in to milk the public budgets. The key argument from the supporters of competitive outsourcing and privatisation is that competition creates cheaper services because private operators are more efficient and innovative than public operators. This is at best undocumented claims, and in most cases it is not true. There are three key elements that do not emerge from the right side’s argument: social economy, profit-hunting of private operators, and the nature of the efficiency gains. The policy of the Workers' Party is that the major tasks should be solved by the Community. To repeat: The Norwegian model is based on three pillars: good welfare schemes paid through our tax system a large and active public sector tripartite labour cooperation These pillars want to weaken the right side. Taxation and privatisation will provide poorer and less efficient welfare services. They want to weaken the public sector, which means privatisation, more self-payment and greater differences. The same right-hand side wants to weaken the trade movement, which will result in less constructive tripartite cooperation, with greater pay differentials and higher levels of conflict as a result. Our policies are based on the belief in creating and sharing. That's the starting point for a community where people feel good and secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4445	I would like to mention two resource-intensive areas: health businesses and public health. First, health enterprises: The specialist healthcare service was reformed in 2002, including: with the establishment of regional health establishments and health establishments. At the time, I was Health Sør's first trade director and, of course, believed in this reform. Now I'm superior to a hospital with its third innovative consultant name that the population doesn't understand, and I think the regional businesses are dinosaurs that have played their part. Hospitals have been merged into larger and larger health enterprises since 2002. In 2002, when we started, there were over 20 health establishments in Health South and Health East. Now there are only eight larger enterprises left, plus two smaller ones. The largest company, Oslo University Hospital, is now bigger than Health North and almost as large as Health West. It is poor use of health crowns to maintain four different regional health establishments with employees and offices in order to manage a now very limited number of health establishments. Now health-care establishments, i.e. hospitals are managed by one national level. In this way, you will be able to carry out specialist health services with common priorities and treatment of the same condition equally. I also believe that the national political level, the Stortinget, will have a stronger political influence on healthcare. The Christian People's Party wants to put regional health companies down and collect hospitals under one national hospital management with one national hospital plan. So over to another important topic, and that's public health. Health in everything we do is a good approach. Responsibility for public health is added to the new plans for the entire municipality, not just for the municipal health service. I think it is essential that the main emphasis of preventive action be placed outside medical offices and hospitals. The effectiveness of these measures is reflected in the policy on social policy, in the transport policy, in schools without drop-out, in inclusive enterprises and in pricing and charging systems. They are in work against social inequality and for greater participation in society and in poverty reduction. But the government's public health plan provides, has some intentions that are at best made: the whole people should train, eat carrots, become friends with their neighbors, live in stable, close relationships, stay normal and not find any risky leisure activities. You believe in an old-fashioned doctor's role, how to summon those who are at risk, and give individual health advice. Unfortunately, the time has passed when patients heard what the doctors said, and did as they were told. What I'm asking is what to do with all those who keep smoking, don't want to train and don't meet up to agreed health insurance. I believe that the emphasis still needs to be on using non-health systems and social sectors to limit health damage and prevent disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4467	In a series of media headlines throughout the year, there has been a focus on the profitability of Norwegian travel. The statistics for the summer months show a positive trend, but for 2010 in general there is a concern. Norwegian travel lives, like industry, are exposed to competition. Travel is more important than other industries and industries are subject to both special regulations and distortions of competition, which help to keep profitability down. In the long term, this hinders investment and long-term operation. One expects that several tour operators in the hotel and restaurant industries have made and will make lay-offs and, in the utmost consequence, cancel employees due to failed overnight stays and visits. Never before have there been so many hotels and accommodations for sale because the owners and drivers have not been able to get the economy in operation. There are many things that affect whether or not travel is going well. Travel life is Norway's fourth largest industry. It employs many women and part-time workers, and it is very important in the districts, where the labour market is relatively limited. Therefore, it is important that we politicians facilitate the industry and that the framework conditions are predictable. There is no doubt that the 2010 state budget is not a large gift package for the industry, although a good chance money is given to promote Norway as a holiday destination. The industry itself wants 50 million. kr more, and it has been given the industry by the Progress Party, just to help the industry continue to be Norway’s fourth largest. Norway’s tourism industry is struggling with, for example, Sweden. This is due to several things. Perhaps the Swedes are more competent to market their country, but there are many things we can do to bring up profitability here at home. It is a pity, therefore, that the government is increasing a number of charges, among other things. on alcohol and tobacco with 5 pst. This does not help us to get less border trade. This year it will only be in Sweden for approx. 10 B.C.E. kr. The government could also reduce the VAT on services, which is 25 p.m., to 14 p.m. In many places in Europe, this is at a low level. Gift periods are something else that the industry had seen that the government could be more liberal with. Norway as a destination for travel life is unique. We have a nature that most people envy us. It is then necessary to facilitate its use. Something as simple as allowing snowmobile rides under controlled forms is one thing. Now many people travel to Sweden or Finland and spend a lot of money there. Another example is to provide liberal regulatory plans. To, for example: say yes to a new cabin area provides many jobs both in the present and in the future. The Progress Party's alternative state budget is a good budget, where the tourism industry is also better than the government – this is precisely to be a team player, which everyone wins.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4484	We're still going to create and share. The Labour Party has a long tradition of both facilitating value creation and distributing the best possible fairest. It shall be safe and sound to live in the country, and there shall be a sustainable and sustainable business environment. At the same time, a stable governance of the economy is needed to prevent a large rise in interest rates that will adversely affect business, private individuals and municipalities. The goal must be to make the best possible possible, whether Jørgen’s hatmaker or King Solomon. Therefore, there is no point for us to reduce the tax for the richest, as the Progress Party and the Right will. It's not prioritised from our side. We have other bets that we think are more important. Regional means of exchange shall be used to create innovation and entrepreneurship. We're going to give municipalities greater opportunities to contribute as business developers. A new business environment programme will be set up, and we will stimulate an additional investment in business networks to ensure synergies that strengthen competitiveness. I find in my hometown that small and medium-sized enterprises are asking for the municipality as the one that makes it possible and as a contributor. They're busy with nutrient resources, and they want the municipality as a partner in economic development. They're not asking for tax cuts. Locally, we use money to stimulate cooperation in business-to-business networking. By exploiting each other's skills and equipment, we see companies improving and becoming more competitive. The commitment to young entrepreneurship should help entrepreneurs develop and become skilled entrepreneurs in the future. More young people will have the opportunity to create and run their own business. We're going to secure growth in the future, so there's still a lot to share. Business development takes place in municipalities. Welfare services are provided in municipalities. Industry development is creating. Well done is to share. We don't tax for the tax's sake, or to tease the Right People, and we tax no more than we should. We tax to secure the well-being!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4499	Stable and careful framework conditions are an outline that the previous speaker used, and a sweep of many of us use. The right hand side and the right hand side often use the cover. Ensuring stable and sustainable framework conditions for Norwegian business is important, and so can we in the Centre Party. Fortunately, we have a thriving business throughout the country – small, medium-sized and large enterprises that need framework conditions to drive value creation, create activity and create jobs. Many of the great businesses that I know from my area have in common that in a start-up phase, or when they develop new products and concepts, they use or use the public tools, means innovation and development. These are companies that are robust today, and they contribute to society through their activity many times what they once received from means to start or further develop the business. So the instrumentation has been an important commitment to realise what today has been a major contribution to the big society. This has also led young people — often young people, but also others — to realize their vision of a product, an idea, start their own business, and beggars today back to society, create jobs and values. This is a part of the business policy that the Progress Party and the Right are not so busy should be stable and careful. At best it shall be stable and sufficiently absent. So the instrument that has given so many possibilities and so much money that these peoples have activities that are contributing to the big society today, these parties are going to reduce dramatically. When it comes to another group of businessmen, those who work in agriculture, it is obvious that the two right parties, without any problem, vote here tonight for a proposal that will lead many families into an economic crisis and that will give farmers about a month's response time to adapt to a dramatically lower income – a bit of a Christmas gift to give to many of their businesses. It becomes a spectacle when representatives from the same parties, from this pulpit or the media are concerned about the predatory problem or the protection issue, not because it is not important, but because the proposal they are voting for here tonight is a far greater threat to Norwegian agriculture than these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4512	Like several red-green politicians, I would like to say that Norway is on the verge of prosperity in the world. It's the best country to grow up in and the best country to get old in – I kept saying that I'm starting to get experience with it. It is also one of the world's best countries for industry and business. The tax level is too high, says the Right Party and the Advance Party, but compared to other countries, the total tax burden on business in this country is to live with. All of this is well known from before. However, after listening to many of the speeches here today — and to the extent of the last year — it is necessary to repeat that Norway is a good country to live in, the best in the world. Also, in terms of everyday safety, there is much safer here than in most other countries. In fact, we also see new trends in crime in Norway. We experience cases of mobile criminals exploiting our open doors, in a double sense. Our boundaries are open, our prosperity is visible and the temptations become great for criminals visitors. With this as a hindrance, over the last four to five years, the government has been committed to strengthening the police and intensifying its efforts to combat crime. And this is also going on in this budget. I started with an idea of our unique economic and welfare situation. We can thank the oil for this, we can hear from the opposition. No, the oil is just part of the truth. When Norway has come through the financial crisis without harm, it is because of our active policies to keep people in work, and it is because of a steady fiscal policy. It is due to well-established Community solutions that characterise the Norwegian model. The model is also the result of unique tripartite cooperation in the workplace. No one should believe that this has come about by itself. No one should believe that well-being could be similarly balanced with right-hand policies. Such policies are put into practice on a large scale in the world, and those countries are struggling with record unemployment today – unemployment between 10 and 20 p.p. Our election promise to have Europe's lowest leave is fulfilled. Finally, I am tempted to take a small step into the budget of the Progress Party. Tax relief is allocated to all, billions of bets for all good purposes and unrealistic cuts in the public sector. They're on another planet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4525	There is great cause for concern about the situation in the world economy. The uncertainty created, with a strong increase in unemployment and a significant reduction in Europe’s well-being, does not only give European citizens reason to be concerned about the future. It also presents Norway with two specific challenges. Firstly, it may mean that we can also be affected in the future by a stronger increase in unemployment, and the second challenge is combating social dumping. For the distress and desperation of European citizens who strongly want a job, these people make them vulnerable to Greek, unprofessional employers — including in Norway. The government has presented two action plans against social dumping. We continue with this budget to focus action on the services sector and especially on cleaning in the hotel and restaurant industries, where we know that the challenges are great. The right-hand side shows that they do not take social dumping seriously. You don't have the same faith in politics to meet these challenges. The second thing that Norwegian workers also have to bear in mind is the proposal in the Advance Party's alternative state budget to cut the whole deduction from the union quota. Some people are trying to make it so that this government is not concerned with our private well-being. It's completely wrong. That is why we are concerned with a well-organised working life, strong trade unions and a central wage formation, which makes all workers in this country benefit from a good development of the text. The right-hand side's policy, cut off from the union quota and not taking it seriously to combat social dumping, is a threat to our private well-being. You say it's worth your while to work. At the same time, they say that the public can save $3 billion. kr by offering cleaning and canteen services. This is the labour-intensive industry. This means that when the Municipality of Oslo sets up the assignment to get temporary workers, among other things. in the case of clean-up tenders, the agency providing these services does not have the power to advise those doing a very important job on a decent wage. It fails to ensure that working is worthwhile, and it also fails to achieve a good private well-being for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4540	In my home town, Haugesund, we have a poet named Kolbein Falkeid, who starts one of his poems with "I believe in people who burn." In the finance debate last year there was a completely different tone in the red-greens. At that time, there were engaged staging representatives who told us about their red-green project. This year there has hardly been a single red-green representative who has mentioned something about what the government wants to work with over the next three years. It's pretty symptomatic, and I'm pretty optimistic about it. Kristin Halvorsen said right after she handed over the budget last year, that the government lacked booze. The government seems to be missing a project. When also the magnification representatives lack the booze and concentrate on the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are quite right in the opposition. Terje Aasland, the head of the Business Committee, recommended the big business representatives, in a pictorial way, sometimes to look out of the window. I looked out of the window from the hall today, and looked down at the mark Fattignorge had in Eidsvoll's place. At the same time as I looked down there, a member of the government came out – that was the councillor Audun Lysbakken. He sat in his state owned Mercedes Limousine with a private driver and drove past in the direction of Karl Johan, past the Fattignorge's demonstration. It may not be without reason that SV has apologized to the poor. We know that this government has become more poor than it was when they took over. I'm also going to give Jette F. Christensen a little comment about cardboard. I'm so lucky I just had six weeks of paperwork, and I have four weeks left. Like most people in our generation, we think it's quite natural that both mom and dad should take that leave. The difference is that I want my wife and I to decide for myself. The right has also said that we should have a self-sufficiency right for fathers. And so it's like that – for those who read the newspaper online at night: the evening post reported at noon. 23.45, just before midnight today, that the government will present tomorrow's proposal for a third of the paperwork. In other words, the government thinks it's okay for parents to pick a third, while the Right wants parents to make their own decisions. I think the debate on the feather quota has been reduced to a debate on equality. That's why it's worth remembering why you have cardboard and momperm at all, or parental leave. It's for the child's sake. With a father's quota and a third, there is actually only one truly losing party in cases where the good intentions of the politicians are not feasible, namely the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4553	It's a good old delivery gel to deliver the farm to new generations in better and better condition. This government follows the same line for countries and people, and shows year after year that we first sow and then harvest, save a little in case of a cold winter, and save a lot to secure the age of the genealogy that grows. This is in line with the labour movement's traditions: creating and sharing, facilitating creation and sharing. Therefore, Norway is fertile land for small and large enterprises, for new ideas and solid traditions. Good businessmen and women are easily rich in Norway, because our policy is to create before we can share. It's not like that in the rest of Europe. The OECD reports weak economic growth next year. The debt is heavy as lead. The interest rate agency is soon lost because the interest rate is close to zero in many places. The crisis of debt makes many countries powerless. The debt crises threaten the workplace and threaten stable democracies. Looking towards Europe, it is strange to listen to the opposition’s description of Norwegian conditions. It is not a crisis at Norwegian universities – ask the students at the universities in London. It is not a crisis for Norwegian culture – ask cultural workers in Latvia, who cut support for cultural life by 48 pst. And in fact, health and care services in Norway are doing well. Of course it's missing. We know we can get even better in many areas. Equally full: almost all the Nordics know they have a fixed, and of all public schemes, people are most satisfied with the Vinmonopolet, the libraries and the fast doctors. If I need instant help hospitalization, the door is open – permanent. We're financing it together. At the door there is no one asking if I have contributed enough. Everyone who needs it gets a new kidney, a new heart or a new bone marrow based solely on professional priorities. This ideology is strong, has self-esteem and will best be continued in a Community-based model. In our health and care services, professionals are on duty. They're on guard now – and always. They deserve glory and praise. I don't think the opposition has thought that the continuous dismantling of health services expresses a lack of respect for the hundreds of thousands of people working in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4571	First, I would like to thank the representative, Arve Kambe, for his consideration of the efforts of the Council of State, Audun Lysbakken. It was really a consideration at a very high level of reflection. As an element of the debate that ‘everything was better than the time we were ruling’, the Right has recently had some violent speeches about red tape in Bygde-Norway, now last at Jan Tore Sanner in his main post earlier today. This is simply wrong, and let me take the SV's counter-message to this democratic criticism point by point. Firstly, Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities do not spend more on administration than other countries with which it is natural to compare. Secondly, and that is very important: the nominal growth of administrative expenditure, which is used by the Right as desirable, has to be seen – of course – in the context of a strong growth in the income of the local authority during the period, which in turn has led to the recruitment of many more people. But the main point is that growth has come first in the service sector of the Municipality of Norway, for example. in health care and in school and kindergarten. Because in fact, out of the many thousands – 40,000 – of the annual works we've got from 2005 to 2009, which is a growth of 11.75 pst., it's just 2.7 pst. who has come to the administration. So the increase has come into service. Older people, nursing and students and kids have enjoyed it. It hasn't come to the administration. In fact, there's a sharp opposite trend in administration. When we look at gross operating expenses, they were in 2001 at 7.1 p.m., in 2005 at 6.8 p.m. And now they're down to 6.6 pst. So the red-green government is red-greening the municipality of Norway. It's not like this, as the right claims, that it goes in the opposite direction. On the other hand, in the UK we are also concerned with the problem of red tape, but mainly in the state sector, because there are danger signals out here and going. But here's the point that if we get it the way we want it right, the bureaucracy problem will increase. It's simply because, if we look at the Right Modernization Project, it looks like it's been copied and pasted directly from an introduction book in New Public Management. Behind the Right's Budget and Programme, behind a bright blue and warm welfare rhetoric, is the main order of competition, liberation and privatisation. And then we need an order bureaucracy, a control bureaucracy and a reporting bureaucracy – we already see it now – that is really growing in a problematic way, and the Right wants more of that kind of bureaucracy. This is the red tape challenge we face in society, and it is the Right that is at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4586	I am pleased that many in this debate have talked about the working line and the importance of people having work and getting to work. We know that unemployment and passivity are the root causes of much harm, and that getting work contributes to opportunities and self-confidence. Work is instrument no. 1 in the fight against poverty, both economic and social poverty. I am pleased that this government and the government of Stoltenberg you have contributed a great deal to the fight against poverty. I believe that the ‘drop outs’ bet in high school, and the ‘qualification’ programme for social welfare beneficiaries are two very important areas of this work. Those kids who drop out of school must have a high priority, so we can get them into a setup. This may be a serious growing portfolio that is being pushed into the public utility and that is to be followed up. Therefore, it is important to have a great deal of effort for this job. In this way, I am very pleased that the government is strengthening its efforts to combat high school dropout by 175 million. kr. The second thing we have to follow closely is economic social assistance. The qualification programme that has been put into use for these people has produced very good results for them and their relatives. This is a relatively new application. Several municipalities have not used it for a year, so it's a little early to say if it's completely optimal. I think it is important to keep up with the work and consider whether this programme should become mandatory for those receiving social assistance. That's because part of these people are parents. It's very important to break some circles, so your kids see that your parents don't go home, but get to work and are in activity. A married couple living in my neighborhood were recipients of economic social assistance. Both are now participating in the Qualification Programme. The man is on the threshold of going into permanent work. The company he had work training in has given him the opportunity and will bet on him. The woman needs more time, but it may seem as if it is going the way for her as well. And being the neighbors of their kids and seeing how happy they are when they come running at us and tell us that Dad's got work is both touching and making a strong impression. In this way, we prevent poverty from inheriting. We also give these people a guarantee of dignity. Figures show that the vast majority of those who go, or have gone, to the Qualification Programme have entered into activity, either at work, at school or in work-oriented interventions. That in itself is an important argument to see if we are going to make this mandatory in the future. Those who have always lost now have a greater chance of not losing anymore. That is why I am very pleased that the government is continuing its efforts and focus on the Qualification Programme and the Drop Outs in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4603	It is soon not the perspective that has not been raised in this debate. I want to try something that I don't think we've been into, the Nordic perspective. We're talking about the long lines of the economy and how to secure our well-being in the future through value creation and innovation. I also want to mention Nordic cooperation in this context. In fact, through Nordic cooperation, we have an opportunity to achieve a larger home path – a larger home market, so to speak – that will once again strengthen us in international competition means globalisation to us. A Nordic that really works would be the world's tenth largest economy. Overall, our networks, our business clusters and our domestic market can be significantly increased. It demands that we make the Nordics work better than we do today. That is why it is important that we step up efforts in Nordic cooperation. It is primarily about the Nordic community. There we see a development where, unfortunately, the Nordic language understanding is getting worse. It's bad news to make this work. When Swedish workers move into Oslo for thousands, they do so because they are understood linguistically, but also because they understand the culture they come to. A dynamic labour market that will increase adaptability and adaptability, which we will be able to find in a broader Nordic context, thus demands that workers move easily, feel at home and understand the language. In this work we also need to find a common Nordic public. It's a perspective that I think has been gone from most people's thoughts, until we sit on Friday night and look at the Scavlan, which actually opens up a common room with Sweden for us, a kind of mental room that means a lot to see good relationships. We should also look at the consensus-oriented model of cooperation we have in the Nordic region. The progress of Nordic cooperation is extremely small. Perhaps we should consider the possibility of resorting more easily to solutions where fewer countries than all five find together, finding solutions two and two or three and three. The Nordic dimension is not just a matter of culture, peace and brotherhood. It is also a question of building a domestic market that gives us a better platform for economic development than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4618	Over a long day with a lot of posts, it is typical to hear the indignation that the position is able to advance towards the Progress Party's alternative budget, a budget that would provide industry with a framework that would reduce the challenges and secure jobs. Let's look at the option that gets plural today, and the effects it gets for the everyday life of business in, for example, More and Romesdal, which is my home country. Six years the sitting government has had to solve the energy challenges that Mid Norway has, a multi-annual government that can do exactly what she wants, but that has chosen to sit with its hands in captivity and rely on the nuclear power of Sweden and Finland or the coal power of the continent. This led to record height 14 SEK/kWh last winter, and the outlook for this winter is even more gloomy, with record low water storage. And nothing indicates that these challenges will be solved by this government or during this election period. It takes a new government to produce the alternatives, a government that wants something other than to talk, a government that acts – and the polls clearly indicate the government option. This well explains the sarcophagus and the serility of today's government towards the Christian People's Party. This is probably where they hope to be saved, obviously. Then there are several commodities in the wealth tax, a peculiar tax that frames Norwegian ownership, a tax on drilling machines, tools and cranes – in other words, a tax that threatens Norwegian jobs, but a tax for which foreign owners are exempt and which shows the senselessness of this tax in the workplace. And with many creative entrepreneurs as owners in this region, the generation shift is also a threat to ownership structure and jobs through inheritance tax. In contrast to our neighbouring countries, we are also unable to remove the audit obligations of small, transparent companies with few invoices per year and low turnover. When these companies, in spite of these challenges, have produced and sold their goods and are to transport them to the market, what are they offered? Well, in More and Romesdal we have a road we call the export road, E139. That's 11 pst. of all Norwegian mainland exports representing values of 20 billion. kr. Gradually, this road is so narrow that there is no middle stripe. Parts of him hang in bolts in the mountain side, and so he hangs side by side with the war, when he was made. The alternative of the sitting government is to pay the road even through tolls. So I could keep describing the everyday life of those who create the values and secure the welfare community. The conclusion is hostile to industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4633	Earlier in the debate, the representative Halleraker from the Right said that I had little understanding of the tax policy of the Right. He's right about that. There are many representatives on the right who have pointed out that promoting tax relief creates a completely different dynamic of policy – and a much higher value creation. We've asked many times during this day about which economy, which countries or which societies can show such an example. No one's answering that. Of course, it's because it's not easy to answer, because there are no such examples. I just want to say at the end of this debate that the dynamics created by the red-green government are quite formidable. So 253,000 more jobs have been created in these years – I repeat: 253,000 more jobs. Three out of four of them are in the private sector. The value creation has never been higher, with the tax level and the tax profile that we have. These are the facts, of course, to which the Storing relates, and which in many ways respond and put to death the argument that the right-hand side has for how the tax profile should be organised. The second thing left in the debate is privatisation. It will give more freedom of choice, which in turn will create a dynamic development in society. It is quite strange to hear representatives of the right-hand side say that it is not genuine privatisation; the public has to pay. Why can't they go all the way out and talk about real privatisation, if that's the dynamics we have. The paradox in this is that they are going to publish the basic investments, but then the private ones are going to come in and reap a profit, and those who can then afford to use these services must be able to enter the queue first. The representative of Solberg tried to reject the example of our parliamentary leader from Denmark. There's the situation that in recent years the number of health insurances has increased from 200,000 to 1,000,000, and among that million there are 59 pst. of those who have a salary of between 500000 kroner and 700000 kroner, who have health insurance, and only 12 pst. of those who have a salary of between NOK 100000 and NOK 300000. It tells what class division this develops.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4646	In Norway it is sad and searchful. In Norway it is sad and broken, for the richest pay taxes on their wealth. It's broken because we don't drill for oil in each spring rock, and it's sad because we provide food support to the states that create development and growth outside Oslo west. In Norway, according to the representative Kambe, it is sad and sad that we have an employer's fee and property tax. It was probably much better when the representative Kambe's party crashed, when ordinary people paid a lot, much more in taxes on wealth, and the employer's fee was not differentiated. In Norway it is not least broken because the government parties read the opposition's draft budget and take it seriously. What a frailty to treat the opposition as if it means what it writes! In the rest of the world, it's probably much better. In fact, in the rest of the world, they also have the dynamic working life called for by the Right, so dynamic it is that young people have to come to Norway to get a job. The good roads we have in Norway, after the time of commercialisation, are also sad and renty, because they are partly toll-financed, and it is an abomination – except in Bergen and not least in Oslo, where the Progress Party rules; then tolls are fine. In Norway, it is broken that single caregivers can receive transitional and educational assistance. That's why the opposition is proposing to cut them. If not, poor women get a little bit more and rich men a little less. But you don't have to talk too loud about this. Then it may be that the population remembers the representative Tetzschner's plans to cut the sick pay. That's why we don't hear much more about sick pay from Oslo Right a day – unless that's all, there's a well-deserved break from the hotness of the country's sick and infirm, which has been produced as late and calculating for a number of years. Not least, Norway is failing to accept people in need, and we are providing assistance and assistance to countries that need it. Norway will probably be a little less broken if fewer refugees are let in, as the Progress Party wants, and cuts all the aid to Latin America, as the Right wills, so that we end the work on democracy development, human rights, equality and indigenous peoples. What an invincible combination of these two parties will be in government! I live well with the fact that the right side thinks that all of this is sad and sad, and I live well with the opposition when the red-green government stops Clement's privatisation of the school, increases assistance, implements stronger social security arrangements, keeps unemployment low, and when we hit a blow for the natural diversity, defends all-man rights, protects trade unionised and working environment laws, etc. For every time I think that now we get a little shut, or I know the impatience rises, then I hear the ban noises from the Right and the Advance Party as it shines through how unbearable they think it is that it is the Socialist Left Party that governs the country, and not the nation's armsmen. Many of that right-hand side seem sad and broken, are actually things that mean a little bit better everyday life for very many others. Then, rather, get the representative Kambe to think it's sad and look at a modern equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4663	It must then almost only be the representative Serigstad Valen who thinks it is sad and sought to be in Norway. We're trying to point out that we think it's pretty good. I guess not so many people are so busy getting money, but just busy spending money, like the representative Serigstad Valen, so we hope that we can put an end to the fact that SV is in government pretty soon. I also think that the representative Kolberg is a little strange, because he uses the very dynamic that the bourgeois government created in the previous period, and the amazing golden age we had until the financial crisis – how it created jobs – to try to document what has happened in that period here. It's actually better to look at what happened after the financial crisis. That is the basis for what we are now discussing. There we have had a sharp turn of hours from the private sector and over to the public sector. In other words, we have had a gulf in the balance between public and private, which is worrying. There is also no doubt that the red tape games go right to the worst. It's not hard to document. We have several questions for the Ministry of Finance in the round around the state budget that document it. So Norway has been overbureaucratic. And maybe the representative Hagen should study some of the answers we received from the Ministry of Finance. So we need to start thinking about creating more, not tax anymore, and we need to shift to a growth-enhancing tax policy instead of a growth-reducing tax policy. That's exactly the light we've put the property tax in. And when I hear the representative Henriksen focusing on regional development funds, I would like to remind you first of all that our focus is that companies might be allowed to retain more of their equity. I don't think so many people are going to be looking for regional development funds. In addition, we set aside money for increased sales bet. There is at least something that Business Norway is asking for. And we've also set aside a pot for local food development, through the municipalities. Stokkan-Grande was also involved in the same calculation as the representative of Thorkildsen earlier. We have a tax policy that gives exactly the same tax relief to those who have $480,000 in income as to those who have $3 million. kr in income. The rest comes from wealth. You can't stand owning jobs – you want jobs, but only foreigners and the state have to own them. I think that's a devastating business policy, and it's going to cost us dearly over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4678	This debate has focused on who will replace the red-green government in 2013. It is a debate with which the Right lives well. But I note that the red-green parties have now decided that it is the Right Party and the Advance Party that are to take over the government power in 2013. Let me then just remind you of what the Right has said over five years, and as we are going to continue to say over the next three years, that the Right wants a cooperation based on all four bourgeois parties, and we are happy that the four bourgeois parties are moving in the same direction. I have to admit that in this debate I have been sitting quite paralyzed under parts of the discussion, because I think it has been a long time since I have experienced so many untruths in a debate, as many constructed scares, as we have heard in this discussion. There can be no more than a deep frustration in the red-green parts of your own government, and a deep desperation that the hourglass is about to flow out. The society of which the red-green boasts, and which they now believe is threatened, is a society that the Right has been involved in building up! Solhjell said that we have little differences in Norwegian society, is a result of politics over decades. Yes, it is decades when the Right has also sat at the government. It's decades when the Right has been involved in promoting social reforms and welfare reforms, and I record that when we don't have the government power, the Labour Party comes to the Right and asks if we can't agree on welfare reforms. And then, in this debate, one tries to present it as if the Right would privatize the welfare. That's not true! The right does not propose any privatisation of the healthcare system. On the contrary. We suggest spending more money on health care to bring down the health cows. The right does not suggest the privatisation of the school. We suggest spending one billion more in public schools to strengthen students' opportunities. The right is not against trade unions. The right is for a well-organised working life. We are for an inclusive working life. We are to open the doors of the labour market to more. When the Right reduces taxes and taxes by 10 billion. Let me just remind you that the government is using a new 60 billion. kr over public budgets next year. 10 of the 60 billion. kr uses the right to strengthen businesses and jobs. It's social. It will contribute to strengthening well-being. Let me also just say in the end that when the Right does not give a subsidiary vote to proposals that are raised later, it is not necessarily because the Right is against, but we are voting today only for the proposals that we ourselves are co-sponsored to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4693	First, I can assure the representative, Sanner, that we are very pleased with the current government. I am also very proud of the project we are part of, and we now have three years to complete, so that Norway becomes an even better country to live in. But then I and several others have been attacked because we have gone into the budgets of the Right and Advance Party and spent some time on it. Even one said that I used my entire post to attack the Right Party and the Advance Party. That's not right. The first third of my post dealt with the opposite of a historical description of the Nordic model, in which I actually gave praise to three of the four opposition parties for having been involved in reforms that are important. The second third of my contribution was a tax analysis of the alternative budgets that the Ministry of Finance has made, and the last third was my personal analysis of what it will lead to for Norway in the future. If I had counted as some others, I probably had a third to talk about, but I didn't. But it's funny -- I stopped counting criticism from the right, but also from the Progress Party, in 15 posts, where you were just a little indignant about spending time on their alternative state budgets. If it's one day of the year when it's perfectly legitimate for the position just to focus a critical search light on the opposition, it's this day, when we actually see what the alternative is. Then it must also be legitimate to question the policy put forward by the opposition. But it's clear that we've hit a nerve that's been a little bad. In particular, I have noticed that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party has been particularly happy to talk about what is obviously the biggest effort in the two budgets, namely tax relief. So there's ten times more tax relief in the Right Budget than it is in the knowledge society, but they don't want to talk about it. It's kind of funny. And why not? Well, because it doesn't hit that nerve out there, as you would wish it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4702	In large parts of this debate, those who have listened must have believed that we were really discussing government options in front of a three-year election, not the 2011 budget. It might have been of some interest, for example. those who are in line to get to a treatment site for their Russian injuries, or who are in line for an operation, or who are in line for hospitalization, whether the representatives in this room had spent most of their time, at least on the challenges we all have in this country – even if we from the Christian People's Party are the first to say that Norway is a very good country to live in. But we're not without challenges. The representative of Kolberg said – and I will try to quote correctly – that the dynamics of this government are ‘completely formidable’. Yeah, it's an interesting thesis. I would recommend the representative of Kolberg to look at the last annual meetings of the governor, where he points out not least that until a few years ago we compensated our high cost level with productivity growth. It has disappeared in the last two or three years. Our competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world is going the wrong way. I think it also obliges the red-greens to say something about what they want to do to compensate for the loss we actually have against many of the countries with which we compete and which, not least, the competitive industry is going to fight. So to this with privatisation: that grandmother was going to bid was a butcher from the red-green before the last election. What I have not received in this debate is why it is okay for psychiatric patients to submit for tenders, why it is okay for addicts to submit for tenders, why it is okay for children's protection children to submit for tenders, and why it is okay for the red-green government to set up a lot of non-profit-making non-profit-making non-profit-making organisations. I should have liked an answer to that during this debate, but we have not received it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4711	I will not extend the debate, but I will, on behalf of the colleagues in the Committee and as the case-rapporteur for case No. 2 get thanks for a fresh debate, which has probably become a little different than anyone had ever seen before. I should just like to make a few comments on what the representative, Mr Sanner, has just summarized in the debate, from the Right. I believe that it has been a problem since the red-green won the elections in 2009 and the last year that the red-green government is always being measured up against the kingdom of heaven, while it has been arduous to consider what should be the real alternative in Norwegian policy, measured against government policy. In that case, I think it is reasonable that the opposition in a debate such as the financial debate, as the representative Thomas Breen rightly points out, where the real balances of the various political parties in this Chamber are presented, must also bear to be seen in the cards and put a critical searchlight on. That it's uncomfortable when there's clear, coincident moves between the two largest opposition parties on the right hand side of some are to live with. I think you have to get used to that, after all you say you want to cooperate, you agree on the most important thing, and at all, you have very similar containment proposals in your budget proposals. That's the one comment I have. The second comment is that the major x-factor that remains in Norwegian policy is, after all, about how to put up an economic policy that can be agreed on on the civil side. I am absolutely sure that we will have many opportunities to discuss this, both with the representative Sanner, the representative Leirstein and others who need to find solutions across the party boundaries, on a very demanding question on the civil side. We must not forget that we are crazy privileged in Norway. We live in a society that is safe, a society with every opportunity if you want, a society where we have a lot to be proud of and a lot to keep. So I think that from different parties here has been expressed impatience in many fields, but it has also shown that this debate has been ideological, in the sense that there are different variants, different directions, you want to achieve the political objectives you have. Then this remains: You have to dry to say no to something to say yes to something. Then this debate has once again shown that there are significant key differences in Norwegian policy. The Red-Green Government has submitted its budget, which has been commented on and criticised for weeks before this debate. So now we've had the opportunity to discuss the opposition's alternatives, and I've been happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4727	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4735	The size is then ready to go to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e4751	A total of 83 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4-71, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 72, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 73, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 74-79, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 80-83, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 80-83, from the left. Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘A Framework Decision 1State administration4 144 108 0002Family and consumer38 673 240 0003Culture7 332 501 0004External32 895 673 0005Justis20 024 536 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 646 612 0007Work and social315 281 044 0008Defence34 577 688 0009Industry4 327 195 00010Fiskerry512 855 00011Agriculture14 577 580 00012Oil and energy-96 525 675 00013Environment3 630 212 00014Constitutional institutions1 636 764 00015Health132 210 758 00016Church, education and research46 862 569 00017Transport and communication31 961 846 00018Room transfers etc. to the local government sector131 309 505 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue8 887 600 00020Guarantee Institute for Export Credit-211 800 00021Financial administration, etc.32 711 637 00022Taxes, levies and duties-909 801 304 00023Exchanges etc.-24 720 852 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-153 055 708 000 B The government is asking for the prompt introduction of standard sick notification periods according to the Swedish model. C Stortinget asks the Government to ensure that circular Q22/2010 is followed in 2011 to ensure stable funding for the attack centres. D The government is asking the government to return to the revised national budget for 2011 with a case that ensures that Norway takes greater responsibility for international refugee work by increasing the quota for transfer refugees by 500. ‘... Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government is asked to exempt the costs of the Post and Telecommunications Authority from the supervision’s self-financing system and to finance this separately from the State budget.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in paragraphs 6 to 6 of the day-to-day pay regulation in order to retain the daily allowance rights from 40 pst. until 20 pst.» Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules on rolling leave so that the enterprise where there is agreement between employees and employers pays only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually allowed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e5003	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 74-79, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration4 475 508 0002Family and consumer68 013 838 0003Culture7 314 766 0004Foreign affairs33 220 673 0005Justis20 265 136 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 420 524 0007Work and social317 451 744 0008Defence34 596 335 0009Industry4 693 695 00010Fiskerry512 855 00011Agriculture14 773 180 00012Oil and energy-96 435 875 00013Environment3 350 812 00014Constitutional institutions1 656 764 00015Health132 194 458 00016Church, education and research453 669 00017Transport and communication31 646 446 00018Room transfers etc. to the local government sector103 189 005 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue8 723 000 00020Guarantee Institute for Export Credit-211 800 00021Financial administration, etc.32 604 537 00022Taxes, levies and duties-911 653 704 00023Exchanges etc.-25 326 052 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-153 070 486 000» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the government to determine how to ensure that parents are entitled to parental leave regardless of the activity of the other parent before and after birth.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a supervisory system for public acquisitions and to set up a selection to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the public acquisition rules.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to enable the agricultural industry to apply for initial investment from the local food funds in line with other industries.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for child care grants, crisis centre grants and grants for the Good Samliv! course to be taken out of the framework grant to the municipalities of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and implemented as grant schemes under the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion respectively. [[childcare allowance]] [[crisis centre grants and grants to the Good Samliv! course]] Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government is asked in its governance dialogue with the municipalities to facilitate the re-prioritisation of the funds allocated in 2011 to 5 more hours of week introduced in the autumn of 2008, 1 additional week and 8 hours of free SFO introduced in the autumn of 2011 respectively by SEK 290 million. SEK 230 million for increasing teacher's density. SEK 50 million for continuing education and training of teachers. EUR for actions to provide voluntary learning assistance under municipal and voluntary schemes.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e5226	There is a vote on proposal No. 73, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate and propose an investment programme for investment in sustainable development in poor countries, with the objective of a total investment framework of at least 10 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e5241	There is a vote on proposal No. 72, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration3 922 508 0002Family and consumer66 516 540 0003Culture7 250 466 0004Foreign affairs31 815 173 0005Justis20 370 136 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing15 261 724 0007Work and social317 073 244 0008Defence35 184 335 0009Industry4 780 395 00010Fiskerry512 855 00011Agriculture12 624 780 00012Oil and energy-96 660 375 00013Environment3 240 212 00014Constitutional institutions1 611 76 64 00015Health132 076 258 00016Church, education and research45 907 969 00017Transport and communication31 878 246 00018Room transfers etc. to the local government sector102 377 105 00019Expenditure and revenue8 878 000 00020Guarantee Institute for Export Credit-211 800 00021Financial administration, etc.32 486 737 00022Taxes, duties and duties-905 101 004 00023Exchanges, etc.-25 153 353 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-153 358 084 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e5436	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 to 71, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘A Framework Decision 1State administration36 146 0002Family and consumer38 740 408 0003Culture6 266 601 0004External 24 712 048 9005Justis20 876 136 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing14 766 711 0007Work and social313 891 544 0008Defence36 484 845 0009Industry5 030 395 00010Fischery492 373 00011Agriculture8 338 776 00012Oil and energy-97 632 775 00013Environment3 100 712 00014Constitutional institutions1 626 764 00015Health13 120 958 00016Church, education and research45 448 588 00017Transport and communication36 917 714 00018Room transfers etc. to the local government sector134 800 413 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue9 823 000 00020The Institute for Export Credit 211 800 00021Financial administration, etc.31 579 607 00022Taxes, duties and duties-891 278 756 00023Exchanges etc.-24 486 352 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund abroad-145 555 943 100 B With effect from 1 July 2011, the Government is asked to draw up new rules on the equivalent treatment of private and municipal kindergartens, which state that municipalities must comply with the principle of unit costs. C Stortinget asks the Government to regulate the rights of children in terms of prices and indexes with effect from 1 July 2011. D The government is asked to make proposals for a change in the law, which means that the curtailment of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners is set at 10 pst. from 1 May 2011. E The Government asks the Government to propose the creation of a 10 billion energy and petroleum research fund. krona, where the yield is used for technological research to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf, as well as other relevant energy research projects. F Stortinget asks the government, during the spring 2011 session, to present a case relating to the financing of maintenance facilities for medical equipment and building mass in Norwegian hospitals. G In the context of the revised 2011 national budget, the Government asks for proposals to transfer medicinal products from individual reimbursement to the BIP, on the basis of health and socio-economic analyses. H The government asks the government to raise the de minimis limit for medicinal products to 50 million. crowns by 1 January 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6032	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a supervisory system for public acquisitions and to set up a selection to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the public acquisition rules.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6047	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary amendments to the State Pension Fund Act, so that state pensioners who retired before 1 May 2000 are treated in the same way as other state pensioners. The entry into force of this amendment is 31 June 2011.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for careful monitoring of the evolution of the electricity price and, if an abnormal situation arises again on the electricity market, the government is asked to consider using housing aid to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6288	The case concerns Innst. 3 S. A total of 100 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 11 and 12, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 13, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motion No. 14, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left-wing proposals No. 15-18, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 1, 7, 19–37, 96 and 97, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 38-40, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2, 41 and 42, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 3, 8, 43 to 55 and 98, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 4, 5, 9, 56–67 and 99, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6, 10, 68-95 and 100, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 23 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Decisions on the financial framework were taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will lapse because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. The following proposals are concerned: No 6, 10, 68, 69, 72 to 75, 78 to 80, 82 to 93 and 100, from Left. 4, 9, 56-67 and 99, from Christian People's Party No. 3, 8, 43 to 45, 47, 48, 50 to 54 and 98, from Right. 1, 7, 19–23, 28–35, 96 and 97, from the Party of Progress No. 42, from Right and Left. 17, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left No. 14, from the Advancement Party and the Left. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 70, 71, 76, 77, 81, 94 and 95, from the left. Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2011, to return to Stortinget with proposals for a legislative amendment so that self-employed persons can use minimum deductions in the same way as private individuals.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2011, to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a bill on the introduction of rules on the provision of a fund scheme for individual enterprises in accordance with the Swedish «expansion funds» scheme.’» Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a new criterion in the Tax Fund scheme for additional reductions in R & D related to climate, environment and energy efficiency.’ Proposal No. 77 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the duty-free import limit of goods from abroad to 500 kroner, and to establish a mechanism that regularly adjusts the amount with regard to price growth.» Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the immediate termination of the duty-free arrangements for tobacco products.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the regulation of the Equation Act in such a way that the payroll obligation is generally set at NOK 3000 and to NOK 10000 for non-profit institutions serving households.» Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The government is asking for urgent and, at the latest, in the context of the Revised State Budget 2011 to investigate and promote legislative proposals for 20 p.m. tax deductions for personal, permanent investments in companies up to 500000 kroner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6397	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the funds previously earmarked for the mental health escalation plan are again earmarked and taken out of the framework transfers to the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6412	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46, 49 and 55, from the right. Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to assess changes in tax rules so that owners of professional and galloping horses are given conditions that are in line with the Swedish model.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government asks for the need for a new tax model for wine that is simpler to manage, has longer and significantly fewer rates, which ensure Proven Neutrality, which embraces normal fluctuations in strength for large groups of wines and which follow the Norwegian alcohol policy line at increasing tax rates with increasing alcoholic strength.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce an investment fund scheme for individual enterprises, limited to 10 pst. of the profits of the year and limited to NOK 100000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6439	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 41, from the right and left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In 2011, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs may offer grants to municipalities which meet on a voluntary basis, up to 250 million. krones. The means shall be used for infrastructure measures capable of offsetting any adverse consequences of bundling.’;» Proposal No. 41 sounds: «The Government is asked to reintroduce aid for unpaid work under the Tax Fund scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6461	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38-40, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend Regulation No 17 December 2008, No. 1502 to the Customs and Commodity Code [[Customs Code]] Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that working capital is not taxed’. Proposal No. 40 sounds: «The government is asking the government to raise the wage-earning obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to $8,000 per year. employed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6488	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–27, 36 and 37, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a review of the special tax regime for electricity companies with a land interest rate tax for the purposes of simplification or liquidation, as well as assessing compensatory measures so that changes significantly do not affect the local economy.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The size of the budget requires the government to review the limits and restrictions on entry in the event of border crossing with a view to reducing unnecessary restrictions, harmonising with neighbouring countries and simplifying the legislation.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Storting on the plan for the winding-up of all customs duties and unnecessary red tape relating to goods entering Norway.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of zero duty on imports of products from all developing countries on the OECD DAC list.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to abolish the withholding tax on Norwegian pensioners residing abroad.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the ownership of Baneservice AS.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6531	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 16 and 18, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a system that indexes the amounts for, respectively. self-executed and purchased R & D in the Tax Fund scheme each year – strengthen the Tax Fund scheme by removing the maximum hourly rate of SEK 500 – strengthen the Tax Fund scheme by removing the rule that, in the case of staff and indirect costs, the number of hours for own employees is limited to a maximum of 1,850 hours per employee. years, and – evaluate how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of zero duty on products from Vietnam, Pakistan and Nigeria.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Storting with a complete overhaul of the system of depreciation rates in line with the technological developments that have taken place in the last 10 to 15 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6571	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is in line with the Government’s proposal for a General Decision on customs duties for the 2011 Budgetary Mine with the following amendment: Section 7 is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6588	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the legislation with a view to avoiding duty-free work on voluntary teams and organisations triggering tax obligations.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that smaller communities of faith and life can continue to be covered by the gift-deduction scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6610	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution and we shall begin with the framework area 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e6873	As the President has explained, divergent proposals, both for Framework Area 18 and those following. The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e7083	The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e7096	Then we have come to Framework Area 22, and that is under the area in which the Stortinget will adopt the tax rules and their revenues for the next year. Framework area 22 is extensive, so we're going to have to add up over this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e13260	The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e13273	We're going to border area 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e13778	The President expects the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left too to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e13795	During the debate, 64 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4-6, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left Proposal No. 7, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 8-11, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 12-14, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 15 and 16, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 17 and 18, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 19-27, 28a, 28b, 29a and 29b, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 30, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 31-38, 39a, 39b, 40 and 41, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 42 to 61, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 28b, from the right, says: «The government is asking the Government to repeal § 18-2 of the Regulation of the Training Act and § 7B-1 of the Regulation of the Private School Act.» Proposal No. 29b, from the right, says: «The government asks the government to amend § 1A-1 in the regulation of the training law and § 2B-1 in the regulation of the private school law so that homework aid for 1–4. annual increments shall be reduced from 8 to 4 hours from 1 January 2011 and shall be completed from 1 July 2011 and lesson-aid for 8 to 10. annual increments shall be introduced as from 1 July 2011 with approximately 4 hours of the week.’;» Proposal No. 39b, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to adopt an amending regulation to Regulation No. 19 November 1999 1158 for filling in and finishing, etc. of the Tax Act of 26 March 1999 No 14, including any clarification of what is considered as a zero-emission vehicle.’;» In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals are put on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting. In order to reduce the number of votes in this case, the President will propose a reunited voting order. This means that if the minority proposals fall, the proposers will then support the setting of these paragraphs. This has been discussed in advance with the proposers. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. The vote will be arranged as follows: We're only going to vote for all of the minority proposals, where we start with the smallest fraction. The vote will then be taken on the vote on the motion for a resolution, starting with all the laws that are supposed to be adopted unanimously. Furthermore, the tax law, which we find under capital H in the setting, is vibrating. Here the President will first take up all the paragraphs that different fractions want to vote against. Then all paragraphs of the tax law that are supposed to be adopted unanimously are voted on. So if you vote for the remaining laws, capitals B, C, J and L, so that those who want to vote against also here, get the chance to do so. Finally, it is voted over the title of the laws and the laws in their entirety. No objection has come to this, and it will be made like this. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 42 to 61, from the left. Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e14357	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 31-38, 39a, 40 and 41, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e14645	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 30, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on population protection, etc. It shall be amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e14722	The proposals are then put to the vote. 19-27, 28a and 29a, from the right. Proposal No 19 reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e14971	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘I In Law 19 June 2009 No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15074	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘I In Law 19 June 2009 No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15127	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–14, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15207	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-11, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15343	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15374	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Advance Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of § 6 to 50 is replaced by the following: a maximum deduction is made for gifts under this paragraph with a total of NOK 15 000 per year. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15458	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘I In Law 27 June 2008 No. 62 on an individual pension scheme is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e15599	The proposal for a decision, the letters A, D, E, F, G, I, K and M, will then be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16042	Then we've come to H, which concerns the tax law. It shall not be counted against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16060	The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16073	We're still under H. The second and third paragraphs of Section 18-3 shall be added to Article IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16106	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16119	We're still under H. The other paragraphs and paragraphs under IV and the whole of I, III, V, VI shall be added.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16463	We're going to vote for B, which is the property tax law of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16543	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16556	We have come to L, which concerns the VAT Act. Paragraphs 1 to 3, 3 to 30 and 6 to 22 under L I.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16607	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16620	Let's go to C. It is here voted on new sections 6 to 13B under C I. The second sentence under J I is also deleted from the second paragraph of Article 5-14. Furthermore, new sections 16 to 7 under L I are voted on. The paragraphs deal with different aspects of the setting of the same case, namely the obligation to present ID cards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16665	The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e16678	The remaining paragraphs under I and the whole of II under C, J and L are then added.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e17033	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e17043	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-25.ana.ud2384e17055	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
