ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e26	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Lene Wagslid, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e34	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Götskesen, Arne Sortevik, Anders Anundsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals on the introduction of seatbelt instructions in buses and safe and sound school bus transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e39	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e42	On behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Morten Höglund, Torgeir Tåldal and myself, I propose to conduct an external independent investigation on the rail link from the South Varanger/Churches to the Russian railway network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e47	Finally, the representative, Gunnar Gundersen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e50	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Ingerd Schou, Bjørn Lødemel, Svein Harberg, André Oktay Dahl and myself present representative proposals on investment funds for individual enterprises. [[self-employed]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e67	The President will propose that, after the presentation, an immediate debate be opened limited to an intervention of up to 5 minutes from each party group and any final post of up to 5 minutes from the Prime Minister, in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, the President will propose to derogate from Rule 34(a) so that, in the context of the Prime Minister's statement, it will first be opened up to a succession of up to six lines with answers, each of which will be followed by two lines, each of which will be followed by the Christian People's Party and the Left. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e74	‘The Silver Valley is a stork of man’s sword’. Thus, the poet Aasmund Olavsson Vinje expressed that there is work that creates the values. We don't live on money, we live on each other's work. It's the work that creates the welfare of nations. This recognition is fundamental, but has not always been equally evident throughout history – rather on the contrary: For a long time it was thought that the wealth of a country was primarily determined by the country’s stockpiles of precious metals such as gold and silver. Then came the physiocracies of the 1700s, who thought that all wealth jumped out of the ground, and that agriculture was therefore the basic productive activity. The economist and philosopher John Stuart Mill, on the other hand, felt that the only productive thing was to produce physical objects. Karl Marx was concerned with work, but measured the value of work, not in the benefit of the work. Today, we know that values are created by all the work we have or enjoy. But there are still many myths. Some people think that it's only in the industry or the production of goods that values become. Others would like to claim that it is only in the private sector that values are created, while the public is a burden that consumes values that private individuals have created. These are misunderstandings. Values are created whether goods or services are produced. As important as someone producing a bus, it's that someone is driving it. And values are created either in public or in private. The public feeding room contributes at least as much to creating values as the private funeral agency. Values are created for the domestic market as well as for exports, unpaid as well as paid work. It is essential to meet the needs and aspirations of society. It's true that we can't all live by cutting our hair on each other. But neither can we all live by producing nails for each other. It's the sum of each other's most diverse work that is the basis of our common well-being. We need both the industrial worker and the nursery assistant, both the tourist guide and the tax lawyer, both the truck driver and the researcher, even journalists and government members. Everyone creates values. Everyone helps us get better. Everyone is needed to increase well-being. Work is the key to so many of our goals. Nothing is more powerful to combat differences than work for all. Nothing is more effective for an inclusive society than getting people to work. Nothing has mattered more to equality than women's participation in employment. Nothing gives us a stronger back to bearing the welfare challenges of the future than work. In Norway, we have succeeded in some areas. We have developed the Norwegian model together. We've been assigned to the world's best country to live in. This is not least because we have just succeeded in having people in work. A lot of people are at work. Few are unemployed. A lot more women are at work than they are in most other countries. The fact that more women are at work today than a few decades ago means more to national wealth than oil and gas business. And there are not many countries where older people are at work than in Norway. Just because work is so important, unemployment is so harmful. When jobs disappear, they mainly affect the individual employee. We find the greatest income differences between those who have a job and those who don't. But unemployment also affects the larger community. When fewer creators, it becomes smaller to share. Keeping unemployment down is therefore our most important task in economic policy. Work for everyone is job number one. The crisis in the international economy is not over, but it is reflected in new ways. What started as a financial crisis with falling share prices has now become a job crisis with increasing unemployment. In both the United States and the euro area, unemployment is estimated to be around 10 pst. this year. That means that one in ten people who want a job do not get a job. Also in our neighbouring country Sweden, the unemployment rate can be as high during the year. In addition, we know that many countries have built up very large sovereign debt. In developed countries, the budget deficit has more than sixfold over the course of three years. We see debt at a level that we've almost seen in the past just in connection with war. The United States and the United Kingdom have had no greater debt since they mobilized all their forces to win World War II. As a result, many countries may be forced to tighten up while unemployment is still high. Then there is a real danger that unemployment will snap to a high level. The fear of high unemployment also occurred in Norway as a result of the introduction of massive measures to combat the effects of the financial crisis as early as the autumn of 2008. Few countries have done as much as we have. The measures came in time and were strong enough. And we got results. The activity of our economy has fallen less and has gotten faster than that of our trading partners. The unemployment rate is above 3 pst. and thus is now lower than the average in Norway over the last 20 years. So far we have come through the crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment rate. It's not obvious. A few years ago, several countries in Europe had as low unemployment as Norway, or lower. Today there is no one. But it will be a serious mistake to believe that the father is over. We're part of an international economy, and we're affected. Therefore, we still need to be prepared for unemployment to increase also in Norway. Many Norwegian export companies are in a distressed situation because demand and prices have fallen, and because the level of costs is high. The shipyards and the supplier industry report fewer orders and fewer orders to make. In many places along the coast, fish buyers are struggling to sell the fish and are hit by low prices. It has been both right and necessary to spend money during a period when there was a risk that the Norwegian economy would suffer a severe setback. That's why it was right to use strong instruments. We must take care of the labour force even in times of crisis. But excessive use of oil money could provide a strangely high level of interest and a higher rate of interest. Then we weaken the ability of business to compete. It's dangerous for the workplace. If we put interest in games, it's the welfare of the future we're playing with. Large, temporary revenues from oil and gas can cause us to spend too much money. Then we get high costs and a public sector that cannot be financed over time, and we get a sharp decline in export industries. In the 1970s, the Netherlands had severe financial problems because they were unable to manage their large revenues from gas operations in a sound manner. That's what's called Dutch sick. The Norwegian industry has not suffered from this fate. The activity in Norwegian industry has decreased no more than in other rich industrialised countries since the early 1970s. We must ensure that this does not happen in the future either. Anyone who makes sense in forestry knows that we're not going to harvest more than the growth. Similarly, over time we will not spend more than the return of the Pension Fund. Over time, we're not going to dry up on the oil fortune. Remember, the value of the Pension Fund is no more than the value of a little over a year's labour effort in our country. If the unmistakable thing happened, we all sat down and stopped working and just lived by the Pension Fund, the whole fortune would be gone in a little over a year. Oil revenue now finances every eight crowns of expenditure in public budgets. In the future, we have to keep going. It makes budgetary priorities more demanding. Because it is precisely jobs and export-oriented business that are hardest hit if we do not keep order in the economy. Norway shall not be affected by Dutch disease. In Norway, we have a great tradition that the king sends a greeting to every 100-year-old citizen. Fortunately, he gets more to do every year. In 1970, King Olav sent 66 such greetings. This year, King Harald sends 300 greetings to 100 - year - olds. If the development continues, by 2050 the regent will have to write some 2,000 letters of congratulations to people who are 100 years old in Norway. That we live longer, and that there are more older ones, is joyous. But that makes the challenges in the future extra demanding. In 1970, there were almost four jobs for each pensioner. By 2050 it will only be one and a half. And then it becomes really important to make sure that many people are working. That's all that's behind my announcement in the New Year's Eve that the government in 2010 will invite you to a broad social debate. We invite cooperation for work – a debate on how to develop a forward-looking business life and make it easier to start new businesses, on how to develop the knowledge and technology we need, on how to avoid young people leaving school, and on how to reduce sick leave and exclusion from work. During the year, the members of the Government will meet people from different environments throughout the country for advice on this. On Monday we also opened a separate website, called collaborative work.no. Here we hope many people will participate in the debate. The Council has three main objectives: First, how can we get more people to work? Secondly, how do we ensure knowledge and competence? Thirdly, how do the companies in which the employees of the future work create? The first is how we can build on what we call the line of work. We're doing a lot already. Full kindergarten coverage means that more women work more. Pension reform makes it easier to combine work and retirement. And as of the turn of the year, we have removed all the abbreviation for all old-age pensioners over 67. We are working on changes in the disability scheme, with increased accessibility and universal design, with more and better Norwegian training for immigrants and many other measures. Everything will help get more people to work. But we have to do even more. Success in the taskbar is the solution to many of the future tasks. A quarter million more people go on disability, rehabilitation, or sick pay today than they did 15 years ago. If the number of people on such benefits in 2010 had been at the same level as two years ago, the cost of the State budget would be 11 billion dollars lower. Let me stress that no worker should fear or apologize for being ill. We want sick people to be healthy, not insecure. Sick pay and other schemes are rights that we have fought for, and that we need to protect. We need to defend the health pay system, not the high level of sick leave. That is why, together with the social partners, we are now negotiating a new agreement on inclusive working. Employers, workers and authorities must take joint responsibility for preventing exclusion and reducing absenteeism. If we're going to succeed in getting more people to work, I think we need to change the mind pattern. We have to lift the sharp distinction between being completely healthy and being completely sick, between being fully working and completely out of work, between being fully active and being completely retired. For many, it will be good for both health and well-being to be in some kind of activity, good to be in touch with work somehow, even when you can't provide a hundred percent effort a hundred percent of the time. We don't just need more labour and more in work. We also need skilled and skilled workers. Then we need a quality education system that delivers good results. We need research, and we need a working life where people develop their skills along the way. One of the major challenges is school dropout. Almost everyone starts high school, but one in three doesn't finish. This is very serious, for secondary education is a key to work and to studies. Most young people receiving disability benefit have fallen from secondary education. We know that many schools have good experience in reducing non-response. This is the experience we have to share with others. We need closer follow-up of those at risk, and we need to improve vocational training. On Monday, I met Principal Elin Stavrum at Sogn High School. She meets a school day with a high dropout. But she's very clear that we shouldn't lower the ambitions of the students, and she's very clear that we have to keep the learning pressure up. ‘The students are not tired of the school. They are tired of not learning at school," is her message to us. Today, too many young people stumble into the pit and do not get their lives started properly. In the knowledge society of the future, more and more jobs will require education. In order to succeed with the workline, we must therefore also succeed with the educational line. But getting more labour and qualified people doesn't help if we don't have viable businesses where they can work. In order to live up to each other's work, we need businesses and businesses in all parts of the country that are creative, forward-looking and profitable. One in seven people working in private enterprises works in businesses that did not exist five years ago. It says something about how important it is that we constantly create new jobs and new businesses. Nearly a quarter of a million people work in companies that didn't exist five years ago. The major industrial locomotives are important. But there are also start-ups, entrepreneurs, the tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that account for the majority of Norwegian business. We are looking for good answers on how to make it easier to start business, on how to take advantage of the opportunities for industrial development in all parts of the country, on how to develop the knowledge and technology that businesses need, and on how to develop a greener and more environmentally friendly business. On Monday, I started the day at Opera Software before meeting entrepreneurs from all over the country together with several other government councils. That meeting made the impression. The participants told us what challenges they have experienced – what obstacles there are between an idea and a success – and we exchanged views on what we could achieve together. The state can and must contribute in many ways. We have a wide range of tools to contribute to food development across the country. The measures extend far from a graded employer’s fee to the schemes of Innovation Norway. Good roads and railways, good telecommunications and a well-developed broadband network, advanced research and a well-run and resilient public sector are important contributions, and in all these areas we will do more. Nevertheless, our most important contribution is to keep the economy in order. That means that we need to ensure the proper use of oil revenues. The companies are totally dependent on us avoiding a strange pressure on interest and kroner. The order of the economy is also about taking into account the competitive jobs of wage-earnings. We have made it clear here in the country to stick to a model where the competitive sector first negotiates. We want to put a lot of emphasis on this going on. A good welfare policy is also important for businesses. Yesterday, I was in Porcelain. There I met Alexander Farstad, who is head of a company that has recently been nominated for one of the hundreds of the most promising IT companies in the world. He stressed that an important reason why he dared to take the risk of starting a new business is that in Norway we have a good safety net because we have a good welfare community. We know that safe people dare to bet. If we're good at sharing, we also create more. Listening to others, having input and dialogue between different actors and stakeholders, is an important part of the Norwegian social model. Therefore, the Government wants ideas and input into new policies. We want commitment, dialogue and participation. And we want to anchor the need for accountability and long-termity. The debate itself can raise awareness and knowledge of important societal issues. Good proposals for solutions in each school, enterprise or school often come as a result of discussions and exchanges of ideas between people. We hope that this debate will lead to a good discussion in secondary schools on how to reduce the drop-out and in the workplaces on how to reduce sick leave. We have seen before that increased attention to high levels of absence may have helped to reduce absenteeism. Collaboration for work is about a way of thinking, about a vision of how to take care of the most valuable and precious thing we have: each other's work. The government will follow up on a number of areas: We work closely with the social partners to get a new agreement on inclusive working. And we put great emphasis on income policy cooperation. We want to provide a big message on the working environment and a roll-out proposal on disability benefits. And we want to present issues to the Storting that will contribute to jobs and value creation, among other things. a kerosene message and an agricultural message. Cooperation for work will also be mentioned and followed up in the 2011 national budget. But there are not many documents and messages that decide whether or not cooperation for work is successful. We succeed if we manage to keep unemployment low. We'll succeed if we get the sick leave down. We succeed in getting down the dropout in high school. And we succeed in creating new businesses and new jobs. Vinje's words that money is'storn mansweet' have been said over 150 years ago, but still apply. We need cooperation to secure the future and our common well-being. I would like to invite Stortinget to participate in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e236	It's being opened for line change. The first replicator is the representative Siv Jensen, who I think has signed up for both lines of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e241	Let me first say that I think it is very nice finally to see the Prime Minister again. We have missed the Prime Minister – and almost forgot what he looks like! I can reveal to the Prime Minister that the Progress Party has also listened to people. We've been doing it for many years – and it's called populism by evil tongues. At the same time, I can tell you that it's very useful, especially if you don't just listen, but also follow up on the advice and input you get, with suggestions for practical changes. So it is that the Storting and the Storting Committees have also listened, traveled around and got recorded. In the last state budget, we listened to over 500 organisations. This led to the government parties having to make a change of 0.01 pst. by the Government’s budget. All the recordings that came from these organizations are what the prime minister now clearly says makes an impression on him. But these are recordings that the Storting has heard for many years. And the question is, when can we expect the Government and Stoltenberg to follow this up in practical action?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e250	It's a time to listen and to discuss, and then it's a time to conclude and act. The government is busy doing both. For example, when we saw the financial crisis coming in 2008-2009, we started extensive consultations, invited companies, entrepreneurs and trade unions – discussed, listened and discussed. So we concluded and made our suggestions. It's the same way we think now, that we're going to move on, strengthen the line of work, strengthen the educational line, and ensure that there's still a low level of unemployment. Then we're going to listen, hear and discuss, and then we're going to conclude and present our proposals gradually to the Storting. That's how the government works. It's a majority government, and then I think it's extra important that we facilitate too many open channels into the government, as we do through cooperation for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e255	It is so true that it is a time to listen and a time to act. I was also in Porsgrund yesterday and met parts of the business there. The message that comes from there, which is related to the oil industry and the supplier industry, says that we've talked about this long enough, we've warned long enough, the crisis is dangerously close, and now it's time for action. Is the Government going to use this advice to further postpone difficult oil and gas business issues because there is internal disagreement in the Government, or are they going to take decisions that will allow us to continue to have one of the world's most knowledgeable environments in Norway, which can continue to develop the supply industry and the oil and gas industry while maintaining much of the income flow that has been so important to Norway for decades?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e260	The government is busy acting. Therefore, massive measures have also been implemented to safeguard the Norwegian economy, to maintain activity and to secure jobs. We now have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and we have high employment rates. In fact, we have lower unemployment now, with the financial crisis in the world, than we had a few years ago without a financial crisis in the world. Unemployment in many European countries was as low as or lower than in Norway, a few years ago, now we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Petroleum activity has been at a record level, and investments have been record high. We are committed to finding the right balance between activity and nature, environmental protection and fisheries interests. That is why we need to proceed in a sound, step-by-step and knowledge-based manner, and that is why we need to follow the roadmap adopted by Stortinget, the management plan. There we will decide whether or not to proceed with the opening of new areas on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e265	In the book that the life doctor wrote to Mao, there's a pretty interesting passus in which he tells us what it was like at the worst time in China. Mao was going to travel around and meet the people, and they had organized it well, so that there were happy, gentle and two-day-born children and adults along the train line, and Mao got a glimpse that everything was good, and the government worked well. I therefore have a recommendation to the Government if they first go out and listen: to choose to listen to those who criticize the government's policy, those who daily experience that the government policy has led, has actually given less opportunities to create new jobs. My challenge then to the Prime Minister is to visit the Nergård Group in Troms. It would be a good place to visit to see the effects of the property tax and the inheritance tax. There are, among other things, signs of confusion. the local ownership, where minors have to sell themselves out of the family company as a result of inheritance taxes and property taxes. Will the Prime Minister leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e272	We are dedicated to listening to many, and we invite everyone to participate – of course also those who have critical opinions and disagree with the government's policy. It's actually especially important that they express what they think. That's one of the reasons why we've done a lot to open the channels to everyone. The fact that we put great emphasis on online debate – our own online meetings, our own websites – is just an opportunity for everyone to participate, for everyone to make their input. Then I can assure the representative of Solberg that I have already met business managers who are concerned and disagree with the Government in terms of taxes on wealth. I met them on Monday and Tuesday. And it may well be that I'm going to meet more – what to say – people with the same meaning. So we're not like Mao. We also listen to those who disagree with us, and that is why we conduct a significantly better policy than they did in China.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e279	I agree that the Prime Minister conducts a better policy than those in China, but I hope that people in the Senjahop will experience the Prime Minister coming and listening – when the corner stone company in the District of Norway is in a situation where owners who have invested over time have to sell. I also hope that the Prime Minister will take a trip to Uppland to meet all the founders who are fighting the environmental authorities in order to run new jobs with a little more flexibility and local self-government linked to developing their industry, or that the Prime Minister will visit Oslo Cancer Cluster, who will tell you how the enterprise after the enterprise – in the front of some of the really new big industries – meets the roof, for example. in the TaxFUNN scheme, or that the Prime Minister may experience all those who say that it is almost impossible to return to work because of it. lack of flexibility in current rules. Maybe he will then see that the proposal that the Right has promoted repeatedly – about right and duty to activity, and that you can actually go down to 20 pst. disability on the road out of work – one of the good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e287	I promise to visit many companies, and I promise that the members of the Government will be available both here in Oslo and around the country to visit many different companies. I can't promise to visit all the companies that Erna Solberg would like me to visit, but what I can promise is that if they send in their suggestions, their ideas, their rice and their praise on our excellent websites – collaborative work.no – we will read and listen and learn, precisely because it is the purpose of the entire project Cooperation for work. Then we are concerned with many of the issues raised by the representative of Solberg, among others. that we have rules that make it easier to combine pensions and work. We've done a lot already in the pension reform, we've done a lot since this year, and it'll be even easier from next year. We're doing a lot of things right here in the country. We have a very high level of innovation – one in seven jobs are in enterprises that did not exist 5 years ago, we have had record high employment, we have Europe’s lowest unemployment. So we succeed in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e294	Despite the fact that the Prime Minister’s prescription – the line of work – has been followed since the early 1990s, this is something we have not succeeded in. We have failed to include disabled people in the labour market, even at the very best times in the labour market. And we haven't succeeded in combating poverty. It was embarrassingly clear to the government in the election campaign. I'm not going to demand any new promises from the Prime Minister here today, but I'm going to ask if he's going to follow up what he promised in the election campaign, in TV 2's studio on 19 August last year, when we discussed poverty, and then both Lars Sponheim and I challenged the Government to cooperate for work and against poverty, that we should sit down and make a national effort to combat poverty. I did not hear the word poverty mentioned in one word in this important political statement by the Prime Minister. Now I give him the chance to answer whether he intends to follow up what he promised in the debate we had on poverty – a national commitment, where we can work together to combat this embarrassing relationship, that Norway, as the world's richest country, is unable to combat increasing poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e299	In my presentation, I stressed that ensuring low unemployment, high employment, is the main contribution to equalising social disparities, and that the greatest income differences are between those who have work and those who do not have work. It is clear that this is also a crucial contribution to the fight against poverty, precisely to reduce income differences related to people's links with the labour market. I fully agree with the representative Højbråten that there is a lot that is undone, there is a lot that is not working and there is a lot we have to do better than we do today, among other things. for disabled persons and for those who fall outside the Norwegian welfare community. After all, we have launched a difficult investigation – a public sample – on distribution policy. The government has announced that we will come back to it, and we will also properly present it to the Stortinget. That's when the Storting gets the opportunity to discuss, and see if there's any basis for settlement, broadening the consensus around the proposals the Government then promotes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e308	I would also like to say first of all that it is nice for the Prime Minister to come here to Stortinget, so that we do not communicate via websites if we have good ideas about the government's policy. Yesterday the Prime Minister visited Opera Software. They had two messages: if you're going to be able to get jobs, you have to have entrepreneurs who know what they want and a government that makes it possible for that operation. I think entrepreneurs know what they want. I'm a little unsure whether the government is so concerned with entrepreneurs. The Prime Minister said in his statement that the important thing for people was to have a social network, a state that takes care of them even when it cleans up. It doesn't experience entrepreneurs. It is important for entrepreneurs to have predictable frameworks, to be able to make grips that lead to new thoughts. Was there anything the Prime Minister learned at the meeting that he wants to take with him?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e317	Yes, I learned a lot at that meeting and at many other meetings we've had. I learned, among other things: what they both said there, and like other entrepreneurs I met yesterday, underlined that a well-developed welfare society is important to entrepreneurs, because it is easier to bet if you don't risk everything if you don't succeed. Many of them were concerned with general framework conditions such as interest rates, dollar rates, sales, broadband — that kind of thing. However, several also mentioned some welfare schemes, including: parental leave, sickness benefits and the type of schemes — and that they should be more adapted to self-employed persons. Well, we've made some improvements, we're looking at whether we're going to make further improvements. But the whole point of having this kind of dialogue is that people can directly confront the members of the Government with large and small shortcomings and weaknesses they see. We'll go through it, and then we'll come back with the conclusions once we've looked at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e322	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e325	It is hardly surprising that I believe that the Prime Minister had up to several good points in his excellent presentation. I want to underline the importance of a couple of them, and point out that these also have a regional policy dimension that is too often overlooked. This concerns the importance of a disciplined use of oil money, and the challenge of non-response in high school. This year, too, we will not see torch trains for the krone price or against excessive use of money in the state budget. On the other hand, what we can reasonably be confident about is the look-up and play-out of local and regional media, which, on their own, may be reasonable demands for expenditure increases in the state budget, but which will, in total, undermine the competitive economy through a peculiar interest rate and rising dollar rate. It would be very serious for AS Norway, but above all for AS District Norway, because the largest industries exposed to competition are, to the most extent, district industries. I would like to stress that there is a lot of very important work going on in Oslo. But the fish are taken up and processed along the coast. The melting plants produce large export values in several of our most pronounced districts. The competitive shipbuilding and supply industries are at the centre of attention in the large Western regions, and we have high-tech, export-oriented environments in Grenland, Kongsberg and Raufoss. The Norwegian mining industry is heading towards a reindeer, with the northern regions in the centre. The Norwegian tourism industry attracts tourists and activity to the west fjords, to Lofoten and to Nordkapp. When I mention this, it's because the national economic policy – keeping the economy and discipline in the use of oil money – is not just a matter for a prime minister and a finance minister who sits there in Oslo, or over there in the government quarter. On the contrary, there is something that should be at the top of the list when requirements for central authorities are designed and expressed around the country, or for that matter here in the hall. In any case, the Workers' Party and the Government shall be the guarantor of an economic policy which provides a sound, predictable framework for development and jobs in the competitive industries. It is about discipline in budgetary policy, and it is about close cooperation with the social partners. Tripartite cooperation is an essential part of the Norwegian model, and a social professional movement is the crown jewel of this model. It has helped to provide Norway with a unique combination of low unemployment, moderate price increases, high productivity and good wealth development for the wider community. I see cooperation for work as a further development of this thinking. Ensuring a large and competent workforce that can contribute to the further development of our common prosperity and well-being is not least about addressing the problem of high school dropout. Here too, the city and the country must go hand in hand. The drop-out rate in secondary school is highest in Oslo East and in Finnmark. If we get more students through high school, we get a multiple gain: we give our young people more choices in life, we help fight poverty, we give business access to more knowledge and skills, we will succeed better in integration policy, and we will make an important contribution to developing the Nordic region further. It will be a quality stamp of our society on the government's initiative Cooperation for work triggers a fruitful and broadest possible debate throughout the country. The more people who, according to their own interests, see the value of engaging in this debate, the better. This, of course, applies to the organisations of the labour market, to teachers, principals, students and students, to the organisations of the disabled and to others who can contribute to the perception of greater professional participation and less exclusion from the labour market. In addition, if we are able to mobilise the forces of the geographical dimension and local patriotism, this debate can be a very important contribution to strengthening Norwegian working life, to the prosperity and well-being of the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e342	The Prime Minister concluded his speech by inviting the Stortinget to cooperate. But already in the line-up that followed a few seconds later, he revealed that he is not at all interested in listening to the recordings the Stortinget brings. I gave more, Erna Solberg gave more, and everything was swept away by the prime minister in a few seconds. Then the question is, who is the prime minister really supposed to listen to? And what is it that he's really going to use the advice he's getting? I heard nothing new in the Prime Minister's speech – nothing new! Rather, on the contrary, I discovered that the Prime Minister has finally managed to get the recordings that have come from business around the country, but they have come for many, many years. It is not new that businesses report the need to do something about the property tax or inheritance tax. It is not new that business warns against red tape, forms, state intervention. It is not new that the business community is asking for a more flexible rather than a more heavy-headed Innovation Norway. It is therefore not new that the business community is asking for less state interference – they are not asking for more government governance. We know this, and then there's basically one thing that remains, and that's action. Then is the challenge of the Prime Minister and the Government when they intend to start acting where this must be contrary to their own ideology or internal disagreement. That's what business is now asking for. I find it alarming when the Prime Minister dismisses the challenges that are now coming from the oil industry and the supplier industry. I noticed that the Prime Minister dismissed the whole problem of saying that the activity is so high that we don't have to care about it. It's a powerful rewrite of reality. Reality is an environment that is in the process of being confused, companies that are sending out permitting alerts, companies that are facing enormous challenges due to order-darkness. The reason for this is that, in its five-year term, the Government has not been able to make substantive decisions regarding the development of new exciting, interesting exploration sites that can give new activity in the oil and gas industries in Norway. That's the reality. The Prime Minister knows very well how long this takes, and that the consequences can now be quite dramatic, if you don't quickly send completely different signals than the ones you're sending now. I noticed that the Prime Minister was busy getting more people to work. I fully agree with that. But if we're going to be able to get more people to work, we have to get more people to create jobs. Then it is essential to listen — and not just listen — but to take over and make changes to the framework conditions that allow more people to bet their savings on building jobs. And that's not what this government is known for. Then it is that the Prime Minister has been responsible for many projects during his reign, and in common with all of these projects is that they are going badly or are in the process of being ridiculed. The Nav reform lacks complete political governance and control, and is perceived as a nightmare for all users who rely on it for assistance. Interaction reform is in the process of being put at risk, and it may seem that the newspaper VG is better oriented than the Stortingen on development. It also says something about the government's lack of control over this, and not least about the relationship with Stortinget. The moon landing at Mongstad – it is hardly necessary to remind the Prime Minister of when he promised to clean this gas. But the situation we're seeing is a high electricity price that creates completely different challenges for the business you're supposed to be trying to help. In summary, many of these projects, which the Prime Minister has engaged in, have gone to the sink. Maybe that's why he's now interested in starting to listen to what people think, because you might get healthier input into how to implement good business policies, and maybe a beautiful day also discovers that there's not a louder call for more government governance, but a call for the absence of state interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e357	It's a little easy to harp when you come again with a new big national discussion from the Workers' Party. It began with the Norwegian House and the 1996 consultations during Jagland. It's not more than two years since Stoltenberg invited to consult around the school and developments there. That doesn't mean I don't think it's important to listen, have processes and discuss in a society. I think it's very important. What struck me when I heard the statement that the Prime Minister was now making was that there were no new themes. There were no new issues, there were themes and questions that we had discussed up and down in this room at least in the last five years. The fact that many fall outside has been a big and important matter for the Right. We've done a lot of work on New Chance – we've visited, listened and talked to a lot, and we've come back with the advice in this room. In general, the government's feedback has been: we are working on the matter. Then we haven't seen much of the suggestions later. The issue of waste has been a recurring issue and a major one – it is important to do something about it – but neither have we felt that we have been intervened by the Government in the debate. The question of new jobs is, of course, a continuous question, which concerns the framework conditions for Norwegian business and how we are putting forward research, development and innovation in the future. So I think it's nice to listen. I think we're learning a lot of what's happening from below, because in a society like the Norwegians, development starts from below and not from above – politicians who think we can steer ourselves towards new solutions, are wrong – it can give room for people who can use opportunities in a society to create the new. Then it's fine with Internet communication, but it's much better to see people in their eyes. That's why I hope the Prime Minister will take the trip to Senjahopen and see people in Senjahopen in their eyes when it comes to the future of the largest private-minded, northern Norse fishing group in Norway. The right considers that the role of politicians is to facilitate the creation of more people who can create jobs and values. We cannot plan the jobs of the future, because we certainly never know what they are. We have often been amazed at how cross-competence has given us new and exciting solutions, for example. in the case of solar energy. But we can say something about how good we are to create the framework conditions for value-creating jobs to grow. At the moment, this reading is not very pleasant. Every year under the red-green government, we have had less competitive business conditions. In the election campaign, Stoltenberg and workers' party politicians chose to refer to a World Bank survey that ranked us as number 10 when it came to framework conditions. The problem was that they forgot to look at what had happened. When this government joined, we were number 6. We had fallen four places in four years under the red-green government. The central statistical agency reports that since 2006, the trend of innovation has been negative, and the Government has little regard for the intention behind the rule of action: we should ensure that the return was used for infrastructure, for research and for growth-promoting tax incentives – all important framework conditions for Norwegian business to develop new and good jobs. Norway is lucky. We're lucky in several ways. We have good competence in Norwegian society. We have good economic conditions because of the oil industry. We have opportunities to invest in the future in a way that no other country in the Western hemisphere has. But then we have to think in the long term, and we have to work consciously every day to make Norway better in the future. I believe that we must have a perspective of both 20 and 30 years in the future for the political decisions we are making today. The right has intended to participate in this consultation. We're going to make a good contribution to the government. For example, we mean: Good framework conditions and more jobs also mean creating job-creating tax incentives. We need to focus more on research and development than what today's government is doing. The government needs to invest more in infrastructure than the NTP suggests, and we need to do it faster, with new funding methods. The Norwegian government must improve its business environment and greener framework conditions, not worse. Then we have to take care of people, because our main value is still all the people who contribute to and in the workplace. Then it's time to take seriously the outside world – not just talk about it, but actually do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e387	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government for the initiative on cooperation for work, because I think it is a good and important initiative that addresses many of the challenges we face. I want to start by saying that when I have people from abroad visiting Norway, I always say: Do you know what I think is the finest, the most beautiful thing about Norway? It's not Hardangerfjorden, it's not Bryggen in Bergen, it's not the new jump hill in Holmenkollen. It's the compressed pay structure in Norway, that is, we have small pay differences. Then they always look a little strange at me. However, I would like to emphasise why this is the case: the fact that we have a cooperation between the state, a well-organised trade union movement and an employers' organisation that understands the importance of keeping workers on track is what is at the heart of the Norwegian model, as well as that we have a tax policy that benefits – from the richest to the most – and that we have a high level of taxation that provides for good welfare arrangements and redistribution. Let me give you an example: the fact that we spend money on cheap kindergartens and the right to babysitting for everyone, together with the fact that we spend money on good maternity leave schemes, yes, perhaps among the very best in the world, is to make sure that we have more women and men who are willing to give birth here in Norway – well, it is the ladies who stand for the birth itself! – ladies and men who are willing to have children, and that we have a high birth rate. This is important, because having little differences makes us better equipped to face times of adversity – like the financial crisis we are going through – and creates security for everyone. In Norway and Sweden, 65 pst. trust that most other people are good people, and they have confidence in them. In the United Kingdom, this confidence has dropped from 65 pst. in the 1960s to 30-35 pst. today. It shows a basic thing: the fact that we have small differences is important for creating a good society. The book ‘The Spirit Level – Why More Equal Societies Almost Always Do Better’ says that inequality is either the cause of or aggravates all problems in a society. According to Dagbladet, The Economist wrote when the book was published: It is far-reaching conclusions that the authors draw, but the evidence, which is painfully clear, is difficult to contradict. What the book says, simply, is that right-wing policy is a threat to good societies. Cut in welfare benefits, tax relief for the richest, poor rights for workers, leading to a more brutal working life, is the cause of poor societies. Differences, and big differences, are a problem. If you had taken the seven poorest districts on the eastern edge of Oslo and looked at the child poverty there, it would have quite clearly shown one thing: these districts would be on the top list among municipalities with the highest number of poor children. Nevertheless, the new City Council in Oslo City Council, Anniken Haugli, answers a question from the NRK about whether it is an objective to balance differences between East and West: No, it's not a goal for me. I don't think it can be said more clearly. In fact, the class background of parents is crucial to success at school. For this reason, the dropout rate in high school — one can see that the dropout rate here is about 30 — which has been mentioned by several, which is one of the most crucial factors in getting something done to ensure less exclusion from the labour market, exclusion from social assistance and disability benefit. A survey of just this coming out of Christmas, says that society could have saved billions if we had managed to get the number of students who fall out of high school, down from just 30 pst. until 20 pst., as it is in the South Trøndelag. We know that what works is targeted work in high school to ensure that students get good practice and good opportunities to do, free childcare and free childcare. Cheaper kindergartens are important. That's why working on these things is crucial. I just want to end by saying that today, climate change is being presented, the recipe or – let's say – the menu of all the things that can be done in Norway to ensure that we emit less CO2, thus reducing our emissions. We will never achieve the goal of bringing China and Brazil into a comprehensive climate agreement unless we show that it is possible to combine a good and rich welfare society with low CO2 emissions. This should be the challenge for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e421	There are almost as many unemployed in Spain as there are residents in Norway. Almost half of young Spaniards don't have a job. But, unfortunately, if we look beyond Europe, we see that Spain is not alone. Freedom affects many. In Latvia, unemployment has almost doubled in a year. It's an idle joke that goes over Europe. So, as we know, unemployment is the root of all evil. Unemployment leads to a strengthening of distinctions — between generations, between cities and countries and, in particular, between ethnic minorities and the majority. Great leisure over time has an enormous social and political explosiveity. We in so-called non-resident Norway are doing well now, but it is not a natural law that Norway should be spared. It requires will for political action, awareness and leadership over time, we must continue to be able to keep the ghost of unemployment at a distance. The Norwegian people referred the word ‘daught’ to their finest word. What the government is doing now is inviting a lot of people to help us to keep the unemployment in Norway low, while not dumping the wages of some groups to get it done. Low unemployment is a prerequisite if we are to succeed in our common model of society. In Norway, we have a tradition of drawing together. The fight against increased unemployment and for future high employment is not a job the government can do alone, we have to do it together. It is good that the Government is so clear that non-compliance with secondary education is a main area of the Government's Cooperation for Work. Just as the work nobles the man, the key to work -- for most of us -- is education. The fact that more and more young people drop out of high school is terrible. We have to look for and carry out the measures that make it possible for as many of our young people to be qualified to go out to work. The centre party's starting point is that more practice is needed in school. All students, regardless of class, must have the opportunity to feel mastery. Future societies will also need practitioners. In January President Obama gave his ‘State of the Union’ speech. The main thread of his speech was the fight against the high unemployment rate in the United States. He said, "If the United States is to become a leader in a new economic era, it is necessary to facilitate entrepreneurs and the establishment of small businesses throughout the country. Infrastructure must be in place — train, track and road. Yes, there is no reason for us to be worse than China and Europe. Translation into Norwegian: The status of small businesses and entrepreneurs must be a key point in the Council. We have to facilitate people who want to bet, as a point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2: The government must continue its strong communication effort. Obama went on to say: we need to get more jobs in renewable energy and economic stimulus for those who choose renewables. We need to stimulate innovation through research and create a system where renewable energy becomes profitable. Can it get better? He will, just like the Center Party, put nature into action and create green jobs. If we are to succeed in Norway, we need to learn from our history, where we have always been good at using our nature for common value creation in everything from the production of food to energy around the country. One of the things we're proud of in Norway is that we have little differences between people. If we are to succeed in keeping small differences, if we are to succeed in developing across the country, we will succeed in ensuring that ethnic minorities have as high professional participation as the majority, unemployment must be kept low and professional participation high. I have great faith that the project Collaboration for work will provide new and good recordings just to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e445	The Prime Minister is raising an important social debate, but there are vital perspectives that are missing. Everyone agrees that work is the basis for our well-being, but the basis for the creation of value is a climate that balances creativity and community. Do your duty, and demand your right, said the old. Today, the credulity dominates – at the expense of solidarity and mutual trust. I'm afraid the government's far too one-sided focus on systems and on the purely material does not lead. The value base of society must be strengthened if value creation is to be strengthened. It is about supporting the forces and values that increase the quality of the community and the quality of life of each person – respect for the value of man and the shared responsibility for the living environment. Market forces are important to drive innovation and entrepreneurship, but when the treatment of sick people is managed by profitability and not by medical needs, as it is in our hospitals, we are out of course. When children’s homes and drug users’ treatment services become pieces of a tender game, something has broken. When the world's richest countries do not have the power to gather to fight increasing poverty, something crazy is wrong. As more and more people feel that they have to sacrifice their family life on the altar of work, society has become unbalanced. Illness absence then becomes more a symptom that something is wrong than the problem itself. In this situation, it is typically Norwegian to repair rather than prevent. Instead of supporting the small communities in the family and the community, we are betting on institutional solutions at both ends of life. Instead of preventing sick leave, we are looking for opportunities to tighten up at the end where people have already fallen ill. It is said so fine that no one should take away our rights, but it is not possible to save on health pay without taking sick days from people. It's just prevention that results in a real decline. If families are not given a flexible room where they can live their own lives as families, the work life will lose, the society will lose and the biggest losers will be the children. The pursuit of economic balance in the large welfare systems will be a round dance where the only thing to achieve is to bite yourself in the tail. In this way, the round of sick pay and inclusive working lives have something ritual over them. Norway is facing two major challenges in the coming years, which I think need to be seen in the context. The first thing that has been focused most on here today is the way forward from the financial crisis – how we facilitate innovation and value creation in the future. The second is about the way out of the climate crisis – how we get a more sustainable society. The last thing we heard was a little bit about in the Prime Minister's presentation. Our responses to these challenges today will largely determine what tomorrow's society will look like. If we don't strengthen the small communities that create and bear the values of this society, we've lost. A government that has abolished family policy as a concept and which seems to want to replace it with full-time school and compulsory kindergarten has blocked the policy of the most important for small communities. That is why I challenge the Government to a new course in family policy that provides greater flexibility in the phase when the children need it the most – it will serve Norwegian working life. It is in the small and medium-sized enterprises that a large part of the values in this country are created. These companies are suffocated by form fields and taxes. I challenge the Government to remove the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family businesses, do something about the wealth tax on working capital and make a radical simplification of the form field. In local communities around the country, welfare is also built through voluntary work. I challenge the Government to release the Volunteer rather than override it with earmarked grants, terms and controls. We should get VAT exemptions and tax-free gifts at the bottom, and let them govern themselves. The government wants to understand how they can prevent secondary school drop-outs. The causal link between the lack of mastery in secondary school and the risk of dropout in secondary school seems clear. I therefore challenge the Government to focus on higher education, on increased quality development, on getting more professionals into, on continuing training of teachers, on more practice-oriented theory and on getting the electoral professions back — to mention the most important thing. If Norway is to be a competitive knowledge-based society in the future, we also need to get out of the gap in research, and bet on proper redundancies in this area. The Prime Minister has stressed that work is the basis of prosperity and well-being. Everyone agrees. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Storting has decided to measure well-being in more than economic growth. We have challenged the Government to create a gross national quality of life index to appreciate some of the things people appreciate, and to think again about what is valuable in this society. I hope the Prime Minister will follow this initiative further up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e468	I want to start by saying that I think it is very good that the Prime Minister comes to the Stortinget and takes such a debate. I'm a little bit more uncertain about whether it's actually meant to be serious. I agree that this is somewhat similar to a house we have seen before. We're constantly meeting here in the Storting. We know the best attitude that makes it possible to make suggestions and make representations about the big and small grips that are rarely met by the majority with some great openness – but we're trying again. We agree with the major challenges and the big picture that the Prime Minister draws on that we have a huge challenge in creating a more sustainable economy in terms of both the environment, the climate and the economic indicators. The generational perspective that the Minister of Finance has used to raise is quite important, and we need to return to the 4 pst. path as quickly as possible. If we're going to be able to create a society where people succeed and where young people succeed, school arrests are very important. The high school drop-out is a big challenge, but believing that we can only solve that challenge in high school is wrong. It has to be solved with an overall school effort. Five months ago, we put forward a number of proposals in this room to prevent the drop-off. They are still on the table, and I am excited if the representatives of the Labour Party are allowed to vote in favour of some of the good proposals tabled by the Left in this area. When it comes to sick pay, I regret that the debate goes into saying that you really shouldn't change anything, but you see that the challenge is there. We in the Left would like to have a debate on whether we might need a new model of solidarity in relation to sick pay, which prioritises those who are ill for a long time, rather than those who are ill for a short time. So to the economic development. Creating businesses is a fundamental driving force in a society. If you want to create jobs through small entrepreneurs, you need to create predictability and good framework conditions, and you need to get away from the government's rhetoric that all the taxation of businesses is just ‘taking the rich’. We know that today 45 billion kroner are spent on forms, and the Left has put forward a proposal to create a regulatory board to try to bring down the form field for small businesses and businesses. It is necessary to facilitate investment and investment in enterprises, as the governor said. It needs to be done through a better tax system, which values creating jobs, and which values it to actually sacrifice a little bit to get it done. We fully agree that entrepreneurs need the social network we have built up as much as the workers in society do. To be completely concrete, I have eight challenges for the Prime Minister with regard to things we in the Left think you should do to meet the challenges he outlines. The first is a targeted and powerful commitment to research and innovation, completing the cutting-off process. The second is a tax policy that stimulates new and more businesses and that involves a real tax shift from red to green taxes, which makes us create a sustainable tax system for the future. The third is to return quickly to the rule of action and a moderate wage settlement – the two main individual measures to support Norwegian competitive business. The fourth is increased investment in environmentally friendly infrastructure – rail and public transport must be given priority. The fifth is better social arrangements and a simpler everyday life for entrepreneurs and self-employed people so that there are more new jobs. The sixth is more and more motivated teachers, who are important to knowledge and are important to prevent apostasy. The seventh is to address the modernisation of the public sector. Leadership sometimes means doing something unpopular, but here there are also some necessary decisions. The eighth is to spend more money on those who actually need it the most, and less on lubricating thinly to everyone. Several welfare schemes can benefit from needs testing and targeting those who really need it. We in the Left say that we don't have the answers to all the challenges, but we have some good advice. The exciting thing is if someone at all wants to listen to!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e502	First, I would like to thank the debate and thank you for the comments. I believe that this statement and discussion show that it was right of the Storting to want us to have a presentation and debate on these issues in the Storting simply because we very often say that we have too little attention to the fundamental and long-term challenges we face as a society. Now we have had it through this presentation and through the debate, and I believe that in itself is right. Then I fully agree with the representative of Solberg that we have had debates and advice before. I actually mean – and I don't think the representative Solberg disagrees with me – that the experience with it is good. We had extensive advice about school with the school's people a couple-three years ago. It was an important contribution to the fact that we have now made large-scale reports and have had large-scale treatment where we, among other things, have substantially strengthened teacher training and strengthened the continuing training of teachers, which has emerged, among other things. in the advice we had. We had extensive consultation with many people and businesses across the country before we took action against the financial crisis. The advice and the input from businesses and people helped us to design measures that have now made us better off than any other country in Europe in keeping unemployment down and employment up. So yes, we've done it before, and the experience is good. That's why we're doing it again, and we're going to do other, new and unsolved problems. So it's clear that there's no doubt that the recordings we get are very different recordings. Someone we listen to, someone we take full advantage of, and other things we don't follow. That's how it'll always be when it's a discussion. It is true that both in the context of the financial crisis and now we have got a sense of the tax system. The recordings we received in the context of the financial crisis helped to ensure that this government reduced the inheritance tax by 90 pst.Oh, my God! It's a significant decrease in terms of shifts in companies now compared to what we had before. We have also created a significantly fairer wealth tax, where hundreds of thousands of pensioners now drop all taxes on wealth because we have made significantly higher deductions – I think it is 1.4 million. kr – so it is a much fairer and a much more accurate wealth tax system, among other things. Because we've had advice before. We have advice to develop better policies. A time for discussion and a time for conclusion. Then I want to say that it is to live with the fact that the representative Jensen is not in the top mood. It's not much to do with. What matters more to me is that the representative Jensen repeats a lot of actual errors both about what I should have said and also about the reality. I've never remedied the problems in the offshore industry -- they're big -- I actually mentioned them in the presentation. But saying that we're not doing anything is absolutely and totally wrong. This government has opened up new areas of exploration, which the representative Jensen obviously has not. These are new areas in the Barents Sea. Concession rounds have been completed. New exploration blocks have been distributed, new extraction permits have been granted and new investments have been made. It has not struck the representative Jensen that we have made large investments, have opened up large, new areas, new areas. It has helped to keep investments up. That doesn't mean we're guaranteed for the future. That's why we have to do new things, but then we're busy doing it in an environmentally sound way. That's why we're going step by step, sound and thorough to work, and not with the lightness of this very important industry. In Mongstad, we're on our way. The planters are running. We are building the world's most comprehensive and advanced test centre for CO2 capture technology. Over 5 billion dollars is about to be invested in Mongstad. So through the discussions and meetings we have, we meet a lot of different people. Unfortunately, we can't meet everyone. We can't meet everyone who's on tape. That's why we also have other ways of recording to the Government. What I'm experiencing is that we get different advice, and we also get advice on different things. Some are very concerned about research and technology; others are very concerned about transportation, broadband. Others, for example, are concerned with very important details. Innovation Norway's schemes or the system we have within inclusive working life with bridging grants to businesses, etc. We're taking notes, we're getting it with us, and we're adjusting where we think it's the basis for that. There is one thing everyone involved in the consultation agrees on, and it is good that it is advice! They're all very happy that they get direct access to and the opportunity to systematically and thoroughly discuss important societal issues, how we create jobs, secure the economy, ensure competence and ensure a lot of jobs. At least a clear message is that this is something that is important for the development of the Norwegian social model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e526	This concludes the debate on the presentation. The President will propose that the Prime Minister's statement on cooperation for work be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e540	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 5, by Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, is answered by the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast on behalf of the Minister for Food and Trade, who has been away. Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and Bård Hoksrud, respectively, to the Minister for Food and Trade, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative of Oskar Jarle Grimstad to the Minister for Food and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who is directly responsible. Question 15, from the representative, Mr Träldal, to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e556	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘A number of Peace and Human Rights Centres receive annual permanent grants from the Ministry of Knowledge budget as set out below. cap. 255. The most internationally known in this area, the Rafto Foundation, which is behind the Rafto Prize, has surprisingly received a refusal to apply for a flat-rate grant under the same chapter. Although the frame of this chapter increased by nearly 7 million. kr in the year’s budget, the Government did not find room for the Rafto Foundation. Can the Council of States explain the assessment on the basis of which this discrimination is based?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e570	The Rafto Foundation makes an important effort to promote human rights, both through the distribution of the Rafto Prize and by other means. It is positive that the Rafto Foundation has also worked in recent years to strengthen its dissemination and teaching activities. At the Rafto Foundation, students are given the opportunity to come close to individuals who experience serious violations of their rights. The themes of the Foundation's teaching also concern subjects of the curriculum in several subjects, and the Foundation wishes to stimulate students to experience, insight and commitment. The Rafto Prize, which since 1987 has been awarded to candidates who fight for human rights in a non-violent perspective, promises the winners as role models and sources of inspiration, and their strong stories give life and nerves to the message. I have noticed that there is an involvement in the Church, Education and Research Committee on the work on human rights in general and the work of the various peace and human rights centres, which appears in the budgetary positions. The Ministry of Knowledge has previously received applications from the Rafto Foundation for financial support from the State budgets for 2009 and 2010. The Ministry of Knowledge supported the Raffo Foundation with DKK 500000 in 2009 above Chapter 226, Quality Development in Initial Training. I will support the work of the Rafto Foundation for the Education of Human Rights at NOK 500,000 in 2010, as in 2009. The reason for the increase of approx. 5.8 million. kr above Chapter 255 of this year’s budget – a second chapter under the Ministry of Knowledge budget – is a general price increase, an increase of SEK 500000 to the Narvik Centre to strengthen the basis for the operation of the new centre, and an increase of SEK 3.7 million. kr to Norsk Fredssenter, to be merged with Nansen Dialogue at Nansenskolen. In a report to the UN Human Rights Council submitted in autumn 2009 on human rights status in Norway, the Government is committed to strengthening the overview of Norwegian human rights training and has taken the initiative for an investigation. The purpose of the investigation will be to provide knowledge of human rights education in initial and higher education. The Ministry has already asked the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo to take responsibility for the investigation in relation to higher education; similarly, the Directorate for Education will look at the situation in basic education. On the basis of the outcome of these investigations, the Ministry will assess the need for coordination and further strengthening in this area. So the Rafto Foundation gets – i.e. I now publish it here – 500,000 kroner in grants this year, which they received last year, but that is via a different chapter and a different item than the one to which the query relates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e589	I thank you for your answer. For me, it doesn't contain much new. Of course, I am aware that the Rafto Foundation receives 500,000 kroner, as they did last year, from another post, and that was the very starting point for my question. What is the reason why the Raftostiftelsen cannot be granted its application for a slightly larger amount that is necessary to ensure a predictable economy, in the same position where the other cents are, where you have a fixed item, and thus have predictability? I want to make the council aware that in fixed grants, the Holocaust Center gets 46 times as much as the Rafto Foundation, the Falstad Centre gets 30 times as much, the Archives Foundation gets 11 times as much, the Norwegian Peace Centre gets 10 times as much, and the Wergeland Centre gets 13 times as much. So I repeat my question: what is the reason for the discrimination of these actors, which is then in the disfavor of the Rafto Foundation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e600	The reason why it's solved like this for 2010 is that under that chapter and the post from which money has now been allocated, we have a certain room for action. If we were to cover it within the second chapter and the second item, it would have to be at the expense of the other cents and purposes that the representative addresses. But I'm going to look at how we're going to be in dialogue with the Rafto Foundation in the future. They're doing a very important job, and there's a lot of students who get a very – what to say – real-life experience of the stories that the Rafto Foundation can tell. It is clear that it contributes to a significant commitment around human rights work and is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e607	I thank you for your answer. I believe that the State should take its responsibility for such an important player in the field of human rights as the Rafto Foundation. It is certainly known to the Council of State that the Rafto Prize has previously been awarded to no less than four recipients who have subsequently been found worthy of the Nobel Peace Prize, so that the Rafto Foundation carries out a great and important work that is very visible and important internationally. It may also be a small point that the Rafto Foundation is located in Bergen. The West is the only region where there is no actor in this fixed chapter, 255. So to ensure the dissemination of human rights to students throughout the country, the West is now the only part of the country where the students are not guaranteed this work funded from the chapter of which the other actors are in. I think the Council of State should intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e616	I'll take the Western argument too. But if we look at it a little bit, I think the work that the Rafto Foundation is doing -- by focusing on human rights and perhaps drawing out valuable prizewinners who have initially not been as familiar as some Nobel Prize winners have been -- is a little independent of where you are located. The work done by the Rafo Foundation is of national importance. I am sure the representative agrees with me. But I'm going to take the Western argument with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e624	‘According to Stavanger Aftenblad on 28 January 2010, the head of NATO’s Joint Warfare Centre expresses concern about Norway’s willingness to follow up host obligations in relation to NATO. He makes a special contribution to the challenges of bringing down the Madla camp. It has subsequently also become known that the investments at the Sola Air Station that were granted in 2009 have been frozen. What will the Council of State do to rebuild NATO's confidence that Norway will comply with its obligations as host nation of the NATO Joint Warfare Centre on Jåttå?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e631	Initially, I will be shown that the claims made in Stavanger Aftenblad about Norway's lack of willingness to follow up the host company obligations of the Joint Warfare Centre, are subsequently disclaimed by the head of the centre. Here he says that JWC is very satisfied with the support given by Norway and that there are no discussions in NATO's bodies about JWC's presence in Norway. I would like to stress that the presence of NATO in Norway is very important for this government. The Ministry of Defence therefore attaches great importance to the continuation of the JWC in Norway. We fulfil our host country obligations to JWC, and we will continue to do so even after the National Headquarters of Jåttå have closed down. Accommodation of staff at Madla, who are training at JWC, is not an obligation Norway has as part of the host country support, but it is agreed that the JWC can use Madla when accommodation capacity in the camp is available. On Yahtå, JWC's new training centre will soon be ready for use. Included IT systems have built a value of approximately NOK 1 billion. Norway’s share of this figure is about 200 million. kr. JWC becomes one of the world's most modern training facilities and can train up to 550 people at the same time. The representative also raises claims that investment funds for the Sola Air Station have been frozen. This isn't right. The presence of rescue helicopters on the Sola is fixed. The Ministry of Defence has approved a project for the asphaltisation of aviation areas in the Sola. Some clarifications remain on the collection of the annual rental costs for these areas because the Ministry of Justice has overall budgetary responsibility for the rescue helicopter service. Once these things are settled, the asphaltation will begin. Both my predecessor and I have assured Norway will meet its host country obligations to the JWC, even after the establishment of the Defence Operational Headquarters at Retan. We have a good dialogue with JWC on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e644	Once one has invited guests, as Norway has done when we have invited NATO to have one of its European centres here, it is actually not the host to define whether the guest feels welcome. That's the guest himself to do. The criticism that Korte came to the meeting with the regional authorities has been widely examined in Stavanger Aftenblad. In short, the meeting was also concerned that he had taken up the same concern with the Council of State in a meeting that took place earlier, i.e. before 28 January. So I expect the Council of State has also heard directly about the kind of concerns that are raised. It's true that a dementi has come after, but it's related to the relationship with the national headquarters. But as the Council of State is aware, both after their meeting with Short and after the essay in Stavanger Aftenblad, the concern goes far beyond that question. My question is again: what does the Council of State intend to do to restore confidence in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e655	I have had the pleasure of discussing, both with Short and with the head of ACT, General Abrial, the opportunities that lie in JWC, and the good cooperation that is now established also with the Defence Operational Headquarters at Reitan – or rather, a continued and enhanced cooperation. We also talked about the costs of delaying participants in the course in the Stavanger area, and we talked about the opportunity that lies in the Madla camp. I also confirmed that we were prepared to work together to ensure good opportunities for this in the future. As is the case today, this must be seen in conjunction with what we might call the other opportunities for making money available in the Stavanger region, both hotels and other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e660	It is quite clear that NATO is concerned about some of the changes that are now underway, related to the Defence in the Stavanger area. In particular, it is linked to the Madla camp, which the Council of State was also involved in. In short, it is very clear that the Vatne camp is too far from Ulsnes, where the main training takes place. Again, the decision is also linked to the fact that the closure of the recruitment school in Madla has not been completed, and major questions are raised in the economic calculations that are the basis for such a move. In view of the concern that NATO has raised with the Council of State, which is expressed in Stavanger Aftenblad, and the overall situation surrounding the relocation of the recruiting school, will the Council reconsider whether it was a wise decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e669	There is no doubt that the cost of overnight accommodation in Norway is high and that there are participants from different NATO countries who have expressed concerns about this. That's why it's important for both me and my department to try to provide good solutions. I do not see this so closely related to the question of the closure of Madla camp, which has been treated in this room as part of the long-term plan. In fact, we must seek to contribute solutions, good solutions, even in the future. We will be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Madla camp until 2013, but we will also have to look for solutions after this year, when the camp is planned to be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e679	I look forward to receiving answers to the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘The amendment of the VAT Act of 1 July provides new economic frameworks, inter alia: too many summer-trafficking establishments. Governments have promised to consider transitional arrangements due to the challenge of introducing a levy after the investment period and before the income period. With a lot of free capacity in the construction industry, it must be a good measure to stimulate investment now and not allow projects to wait for VAT refund next year. In view of this, will the Council of State come up with stimulating transitional arrangements without delay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e688	I assume that what the representative is looking for is a modification of the VAT code in the cultural and sporting fields that the Government gave in the 2010 budget. There it was, among other things. that it was intended to enter into force on 1 July 2010. Because the sketch deviated from the recommendations of the Committee on Culture, a new hearing was announced, and the hearing note was sent out here by day. The proposal outlines the introduction of a tax obligation of 8 pst. for entrance fees for museums, galleries, amusement parks, entertainment centres and major sporting events. Furthermore, it is proposed that the payment for training be subject to a fee of 8 pst. provided that the training offer is provided by a commercial operator. The changes will include, inter alia: provide for an extension of the right of deduction for VAT received on acquisitions to the taxable part of the establishment. The note states that there is no obligation to propose transitional arrangements. It is necessary, inter alia, to: in the case of taxable persons, a certain period shall elapse between notification and adoption in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain and their implementation. However, a disadvantage in implementing some time after the notification of the proposal is that it may result in adjustments by several actors waiting for major investments until the VAT obligation and the right to deduct occur. Operators who do not defer or do not have the possibility to defer the investments will have to include VAT in the cost base. This may raise questions as to whether there is a need for transitional arrangements. However, any transitional arrangement raises a number of fundamental and practical issues, including: the types of investment to be covered. The question of transitional arrangements needs to be considered in the context of providing, as mentioned above, an extension of the VAT base that largely protects the voluntary part of the sport from the obligation to pay taxes. It also provides for a separate VAT compensation scheme for investments in sports facilities from 1 January 2010. This limits the need for a transitional regime. In my opinion, therefore, the need and potential benefits of establishing a transitional arrangement are generally small. I refer to the absence of transitional arrangements in connection with the general introduction of VAT on services in 2001. However, I do not want to take a final position on the question of transitional arrangements until the consultation has been completed. I will come back to the question of a possible transitional arrangement in the proposition that I intend to promote for the Storting during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e707	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. There was nothing new there. Now it is that when I sent in the question, this consultation note, which was promised in January, did not come into place. I waited until January was just over. But this week it's come, and it's good. I expect the Council of State to have so much insight into business that he knows that it is following the financial year and that it is planning and making budgets in relation to the financial year. Then the Council of State sees that it is legally late to come up with what the transitional arrangements should be, ‘in the course of the spring session’. Many of these businesses use the spring to prepare a summer season, have revenues during the summer season and lick the wounds – I would say – in the autumn. The Council of State does not see that an introduction of this in the middle of the summer, when the revenue comes, is simply included and takes about. 7 pst. of the gross turnover of these establishments, subtracting it directly from the bottom line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e718	We should have sent out the consultation note a little earlier, but there are clarifications that should happen before you can send out a hearing note. Now the consultation period was relatively short; we have set it to four weeks. The reason for this is that this is a question that has been widely addressed in the past, and that means that, in a very short time, we get a hearing from those affected — and possibly from others. I will promise that we will keep a high pace in order to bring forward the proposition as early as possible during the spring, but it is not possible for me now to go any further into whether we will propose concrete transitional arrangements here, even though I see the problems that the representative raises in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e725	Then we just have to wait and see. Now it's like someone has started projects. Among other things, in the part of the country I come from, we have a zoo with a lot of activities that have a lot of investments this year – I know there are tens of millions of them for such an enterprise. When one, as I said, subtracts income – because that is the reality, I record that it is also said in the consultation note that one does not expect one to be able to increase prices without further delay – the reduced income means. When the time comes, I expect the Council of State to agree with me that we cannot imagine that we can make incentives, at least in front of this season – and then the industry must take it. There has been an alternative for the Council of State to postpone the deadline for introduction, for example: Next year's change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e736	The last thing we haven't considered concretely, but we want it to be implemented initially from 1 July this year. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the letter of consultation attached to a, roughly rough, table, which shows that most of those who now, at least on a general basis, will be subject to VAT of 8 p.m., will get out of it. In many cases, the deduction of value added tax will exceed what they are required to pay in terms of value added tax. I think we've all found a balanced arrangement, which is now at the hearing. But, as I said, we have not specifically assessed whether we will postpone implementation until later than 1 July this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e744	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Finance: «Assets tax is a tax that drains enterprises from equity. This is most pronounced in District Norway, as alternative sources of capital are weakest. Much of District Norway is entirely dependent on local ownership to maintain and further develop local activities and corner stone holdings. Does the Council see that the tax burden on wealth has increased dramatically for businesses and owners in recent years, and does it see that this can have significant consequences for many district communities if it continues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e753	The government wants to preserve the wealth tax because it has a central distribution policy role in the tax system. The government has made sure that we are paying less and less property taxes by having significantly increased the base payments. At the same time, we have changed the bases so that there is now a better match between the tax and people's tax ability, regardless of how the wealth is composed. It also means that we've changed something: we've removed the stock discount, and it's changed somewhat on the basis of the property tax. That means that someone's been given increased taxes on wealth. The wealth tax is a saving tax for Norwegian taxpayers in general, regardless of how saving is channelled. Assets arising from the return on investment abroad shall be taxed on wealth in line with investment in Norway. Therefore, the wealth tax will not initially affect the profitability of investing in Norway compared to investing in other countries. It is primarily the profitability of investing in Norway, compared to investing in other countries, which determines the extent of innovation and investment in Norway. Then there are other factors than just the taxes on wealth. Although I do not share the great concern of the representative Gundersen regarding the impact of the property tax on Norwegian business and districts, I recognise that it may have some unfortunate effects on parts of Norwegian business. This is the background for the Government of the new Government Declaration, among other things. has clarified that it will in the future work for changes in property taxes, which contribute to good framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises. The objective is a fair taxes on wealth, which at the same time provide good incentives to invest in industrial activities that provide the highest possible return for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e762	There is hope in hanging strings – and we hope that the last part of the Council's response shows that it will actually happen. It is precisely that fewer people now pay taxes on wealth, and that they hang in on it – I am actually calling it the blinketang operation of the Halvors – in relation to ownership. It is a fact that fewer people pay taxes on wealth because they have removed the rebates, but they have increased the wealth tax on their owners quite dramatically by removing the stock discount. Today, when the Prime Minister has focused on creating jobs for future well-being, it is quite dramatic, in my opinion, that this is done in terms of ownership. I was actually going to ask if the finance minister will guide his boss in view of his error. When trying to create jobs, you also need to focus on ownership. My claim is that this is very negative in District Norway. I hope the Minister of Finance will go back and have an extra chat with the Prime Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e769	As I said in my answer, I see that, among other things, the removal of the stock discount and any changes to the basis of the property tax have led to an increase for some, which may also have meant an increase in the taxation of capital in business. At the same time, it is also appropriate to stress that there are many other factors involved in establishing a business: a good economic policy that has the lowest possible level of interest rates, for example, that there is good access to capital both privately and publicly, and not least that we have a well-trained workforce. So it's more in the picture than just the property tax. I think it was among other things. the Prime Minister intended in his statement and in the reply after the presentation. In Norway, 280,000 new jobs were created during the period 2003–08. It also shows that there are good conditions for creating business in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e776	Yes, fortunately it is, but as the governor also said in his speech, we have had extremely good assumptions, and there is a lot that makes us get jobs in Norway. So we agree that there are many other things that count. Now we have read in the Financial Newspaper and in other media about listening to the people. It is also clear that you do not listen to the tax collector. And earlier today, the company Nergård AS was moved forward. The Financial Committee has received letters from the County Council of Troms, such as: are from the Workers' Party, which asks for an exception to the general rules on taxes on wealth, because it is seen how dramatic this is for the heirs of Nergård AS. The Labour Party’s representative Bendiks H. Arnesen went out in Troms Folkeblad on 5 February and said that this was not ‘our intention’. I think you should stop with double communication, and say that you want to hit ownership in Norwegian companies, and that you are not very concerned about what that ownership means for jobs in District-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e785	First of all, we listen to the people we meet, and we meet a lot of people with different opinions. As the Prime Minister also said, we also listen to those who have critical views, it should just be missing. The good social critique is important for bringing policy forward. We also listen to the tax collector. I can assure the representative, Gundersen, of that. As I said in my main response, we will now look at the property tax in relation to the framework conditions for Norwegian companies. But what comes out of it, it's too early to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e795	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Food and Trade, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e798	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions, as the Minister for Food and Trade has gone away: ‘Innovation Furniture is a project that has gone over several years, which has shown good results for the companies that have participated and which is important for the industry. In the context of the examination of the 2010 State Budget in the Business Committee, a broad majority wished to continue the Innovation Furniture. How does the Council of State follow up that Innovation Furniture can continue its activities in 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e807	The government wants to support the innovation and internationalisation of the Norwegian furniture industry. In our letter to Innovation Norway for 2010, we have therefore commissioned Innovation Norway to facilitate the continuation of Innovation Furniture through a continued commitment to innovation and innovation in and in cooperation with industry actors. That's set of 1 million. to the programme in 2010. At the same time, this programme has been financed by both innovation in Norway and industry itself. Furthermore, the funds from Innovation Norway have been committed from both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and from the municipality of More and Romesdal. Therefore, in order to be able to continue the programme at the same level as before, it is dependent on other actors also maintaining their funding. Based on this, it will be up to Innovation Norway and the furniture industry to look at the possibilities and, where appropriate, to make further cooperation concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e814	I was very sad at the answer given by the Council of State here, because it is quite obvious that through the Innovation Norway mission document a contribution of 1 million was made. kr, has set hookfoot on this project. The furniture industry is very export-oriented. It's an industry that's struggling, and it needs a lot of change. It is obvious that there is a long way between promises in election campaigns and what happens when concrete action is taken. Former Minister of Industry Sylvia Brustad visited the furniture companies on Sunnmøre and promised significant funds. I guess that was 50 million. NOK in terms of these means of conversion – so now we see what is going to happen. I understand, of course, that the Minister for Fisheries has problems in being able to respond to my challenge. But will the Minister for Fisheries now talk to the Minister for Industry, who did not find it timely to come to the Chamber today and answer questions and address this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e825	The representative is quite right, of course, that the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is not very detailed in the furniture industry. What I explained in my reply was a continuation of the programme to which it was referred, namely the Innovation Furniture, where there was also a pre-requisite that the former collaborators should find and continue it. Otherwise, I will take the input from the representative to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e832	I hope, then, that the Council of State can contribute more than he has done in this matter for the time being, because Norsk Industry, which is responsible for this project together with the furniture industry itself, has not actually received feedback from either Innovation Norway or the Ministry of Industry and Trade about what they have to deal with. They have only received signals through a working group that Innovation Norway will generate 1 million nationally. kr. It is such that the regulation of Innovation Norway, inter alia: in the case of county funds, restrictions are imposed on the allocation of funds. Among other things, central struts such as the municipality of Sykkylven could have problems getting funds. Therefore, it is important to put the national entry in place. I therefore hope that the Council of State can pass it on to its colleague, so that you can get a final answer as to whether you can continue, and if you get more money. Next time, I hope the Council of State can come and answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e841	As I said in my reply instead: I will take the message with me. I guess an answer is what you can expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e866	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e872	This question, from the representative of Oskar Jarle Grimstad to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e875	‘Kurt Oddekalv and the Environmental Protection Association are on the path of war and have launched a sword campaign against Norwegian farmed salmon abroad. Odekalve claims the fish is carcinogenic and should not be eaten. A Norwegian actor engaged abroad to warn potential buyers of a Norwegian product is best suited to sow doubt and scepticism to Norwegian products. What countermeasures will the Council of State take to eliminate doubt and scepticism on Norwegian products and to prevent any negative consequences of the Odekalv sword campaign?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e882	I have little sense that Oddekalv has gone out and warned consumers abroad against eating Norwegian salmon on the grounds that it should be harmful to health. Nothing indicates that this is the case. To put it simply, it is not allowed to sell seafood that is not safe to eat. In 2009, 833 000 tonnes of salmon were exported round weight to a value of almost 24 billion kroner to 96 countries. The fish export sample estimated that this corresponds to 10 million salmon meals each day. Norwegian seafood is exported to 150 other countries and equals 35 million meals a day. The export figures for January 2010 show that both the volume and price of salmon exports have increased compared to January 2009. The fish export sample is in readiness and alerts Norwegian authorities and economic operators if problems are recorded in the markets. We have not received any notice of market problems for salmon. The roles of economic operators and the authorities in ensuring that the food eaten is safe for consumers are different. We work together on the challenges, and I assume that the industry takes food security seriously. The economic operators themselves are responsible for ensuring that the products they sell meet the requirements for safe food. Food surveillance has a number of monitoring and control programmes related to the production of seafood, and they supervise both the farms and the production establishments. NIVES identifies potential drug residues, heavy metals, organic pollutants and other compounds in Norwegian farmed fish. Imported salmon from Norway are also subject to control procedures in almost 100 market countries, which have their rules and control procedures for what is considered safe food. Should it prove that Norwegian salmon should not be safe to eat at any time, the authorities will put in place the necessary measures to prevent such placing on the market. The Scientific Committee, in its report ‘A holistic view of Norwegian diet fish and seafood’, recommended that the population increase the intake of fatty fish from a health perspective. This is based on an assessment of both the positive and negative health effects of seafood consumption. I'm glad that the stunt from Oddekalv, as far as I've been informed about, has not had a negative impact on the reputation or demand for seafood. It would be very unfortunate if groundless claims that eating Norwegian salmon is a health hazard lead to consumers choosing away the healthy fish. Salmon is healthy and good food. I want people to eat even more salmon and seafood for the rest, both here at home and abroad. Ten million salmon meals a day is an impressive number, but I think there is room to increase the consumption of Norwegian salmon and seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e901	Thanks for the answer. There is probably also reason to believe that all the drugs and additives used to treat the fish either against disease or to take salmonids are approved by the Food Safety Authority and others to supervise what is being used. My question will then be: Is it communicated that there is an approved remedium used, so that each can go in and test and check that these drugs are also approved by the EU, as far as I understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e910	As I said in my answer, there are a number of control functions for Norwegian seafood. Equally extensive are, of course, the control and approval procedures prior to the use of a drug. The use of a new treatment substance — whether for the treatment of fish, animals or people — requires a ni-time and long procedure. It is quite obvious that the control functions and approval procedures we have in Norway are, of course, adapted to the markets where these products are to be sold. They are also well communicated and harmonised.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e915	Many of these environmental and climate organisations are largely publicly funded. In other words, when we see them going out – especially when the Odekalv and the Environmental Protection Association – with a sword campaign and driving civil disobedience, they are fighting against a legal industry that provides significant income to the state treasury and export values, as it were, of DKK 24 billion. Can the Council of State defend this kind of campaign with public support?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e920	Currently, funding for environmental protection organisations is not in the budget of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, so that the right state council is consulted. In general, it has been mentioned in detail in this Chamber that freedom of expression is strong. The fact that it's given expression of things that we totally disagree with, and that in addition is groundless, we just have to refute the facts. I intend to do that within the area for which I am responsible. The institutions for which I am responsible, which sit on this knowledge, are again encouraged to go out actively and tell about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e930	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The bourgeois majority in Akershu County has decided to introduce a new tariff and zone system for public transport in Oslo and Akershus. This means that the number of zones is reduced from 88 to 3. It involves simplification, and will make travel cheaper for many. This is one of several measures to increase the number of journeys by public transport. Will the Ministry of Transport facilitate the rapid introduction of the new zoning system in line with decisions taken in Akershus County?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e939	I welcome the initiative that Ruter AS, Akershus County Municipality and Oslo Municipality have taken to put in place a tariff and zone system that is easier to adhere to for the collective travellers. A simpler tariff system will provide a better collective service. Then there are still several open questions relating to the right pricing, the relationship between the so-called Route tariff and the NSB tariff and the impact on the financing of collective provision in the region. Routes AS and NSB are now working together to produce a common factual basis. I feel that there is a good dialogue both at political level between the Municipality of Oslo, Akershus County Council and the Ministry of Transport and at administrative level between the Department of Routes and the NSB. Once we have received an answer to the unanswered questions, we will decide which solution is best. If the consequence of a new tariff system is a large reduction in ticket revenue and thus an increase in government costs, we need to balance between reducing tariffs against the use of state resources to improve the operating situation within the railway, increasing investment in the line and/or increasing train provision. So this is an important question, but there's a question that I can't advance any answer today. It is a matter that I must be allowed to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e948	When I deal with the matter, of course, it is not random. This is because Akershus County and Oslo feel that they face a lot of opposition in the ministry to this proposal, which is not new, but which has been well known since the 2007 county elections when the civil majority decided that this would be carried out. Then it is clear that there will always be some issues that need to be addressed and that have to be solved. But then the question is whether you go into this work to find those solutions, or whether you are initially sceptical and reluctant to do this. I might have hoped that a central government council had a little more confidence in the local populace and their priority and willingness to find a solution. So let me ask the question a little bit differently: is the Council within this to find a solution, so that this can be carried out in line with decisions in Akershu County?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e955	I welcome the initiatives taken. It is true that a simplification of the tariff system in Oslo and Akershus has been a topic for decades. In particular, the fare system for travel in Akershus and for travel between Akershus and Oslo is complex. It is also the case that the latest reports on public transport now show that the number of collective journeys is increasing, and that this is precisely the cooperation with Akershus, the organisation that is taking place there, which causes car traffic to go down in Oslo. I'm going to bring along the signals that the representative Sanner is coming with. So I hope he also understands that there might be a bias at a time when there's going to be government funds, where we're going to put them in. I don't think it's unknown, either for Sanner, that there is also a need for extra funds for the railway. But I'm going to go into this with a constructive... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e962	Let me thank you for the last time, which is that the Council of State says she will go into this with a constructive starting point. That is important, because here Oslo and Akershus have pointed to this solution both because it involves simplification and because you want more people to travel collectively. This is not the case because you have to send a bill to the state. You do it because you want more people to travel collectively. Then, as I pointed out in the question, there is one of several measures: we need a better offer, but here is also price and simplification part of that package. Oslo and Akershus also have significant funds, in Oslopackakt3, which are intended to go to the operation of public transport, and then it is the state's funds, which are made available to increase the collective share. These are measures that are intended to increase the collective share, because it is becoming cheaper and simpler for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e967	It's just this joint commitment to get more people to travel collectively that's so important now, and that means that we have to do what we can to talk well together and find the best solutions. I'm very pleased with the signals that are now coming, that relate to public transport and developments there. So I just repeat for the sake of the word one more time: it's going to be a question for me at some point in this loop: where are we going to put government funds? At this point I am not locked in this, and I will take Sanner's view into this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e976	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘It may seem that the State Road Service Action Plan for 2010–2019 for four-field E6 from the Colomium in Stage to Lillehammer will stop in Hamar — this is because there is not enough money left. What will the Council of State contribute to the coherent development of this route as previously planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e985	In St.meld. No 16 for 2008–2009 National Transport Plan 2010–2019 there are already government funds for the start-up of further deployment of E6 on the route Colomen–Lillehammer in the last six years. Prioritisation depends on the support of a partial toll financing scheme. This priority has been followed up in the State Road Agency’s 2010–2013 action programme. In St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, therefore, a start has been made on the development of the last six-year period, not completion. However, the final priorities after 2013 will be addressed through the work of the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023. From the time this plan is presented early in 2013, the State Road Service will work to clarify the plan for the different sections of E6 between Colomen and Lillehammer. In addition, arrangements must be made for further toll financing of development. In connection with the examination of the E6 Dal–Minnesund and the Creator’s Committee, the Transport and Communications Committee entered in order to allow the toll company to advance funds for the planning, design and land use of E6 from the Colomoen to Lillehammer. Such an advance will help to ensure continuity in the further development. The toll company has applied for permission to advance 130 million. kr for these purposes on the route Koloen-Moelv. The Ministry of Transport has agreed to this, under the authority of the owner of the toll company, to approve the advance. In addition, there will be government funds, and I can ensure that I will work for continuity in the further development of E6 northwards from the Colomo, with the provision of the necessary clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e994	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which tells a little bit about history and maybe also about future plans. E6 is a very special way, so there's a lot of stress on the road. Many cars are driving here – many of them are heavy cars – and as I have understood it, this road is road no. one in Norway. For example, on the road between Colomen and Mjøsbrua, 45 people have lost their lives in the last 15 years — a census was made between 1994 and 1995, so the distance is 43 km. That's one person per person. km. It tells us a little bit about the need to do something about this way right up to Lillehammer. That's why I want the Council of State to underline even more strongly how quickly something can happen with this way. Not least, how much chance is there of something happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1001	Working with St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the project was long limited to the route Colomen–Biri. When the project was extended to Lillehammer, this happened without changing the project list estimate. The action programme provides a cost estimate of $5 billion, which has been funded by 1.7 billion in government funds and 3.3 billion in other funding. In addition, costs and development strategies need to be assessed more closely until the national transport plan, i.e. Spring 2013. However, there is dialogue between the Department and the Directorate of Road and other departments on the standard options for E6 on the route Biri-Vingrom, as a follow-up to KVU/KS1, for the transport system in the Mjøsregion and Gudbrandsdalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1006	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My final question will then be: I suppose the Council of State is not satisfied that the E6 expansion ends at Hamar – if we get as far as that, then? The goal must be that it goes to Lillehammer, and preferably even longer, of course. There is a set-up of mid pulleys along parts of this section, and that's good and good. But many are afraid that it may help to postpone the further expansion of the four-field motorway. I want the Council of State to confirm, of course, that this is not the case, that it is only temporary, and that the costs of pitfalls – 29 million. kr, if I remember correctly – has nothing to do with the further expansion, i.e. it is temporary, that the expansion will take place further to Lillehammer, and that there will be four fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1015	I am in the lucky situation that I have an ambitious national transport plan to stick to, which of course also depends on the necessary funds every year. So it is that even though very much is in place in the national transport plan, there are also unresolved tasks. I literally know the pressure on this road. The central party of its parliamentary leader, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, often reminds me of that. I know that there are others, both from Hedmark and those who run longer distances, who are occupied by this road. It's important to follow this up. That is why I say I want to work for continuity in the further development under the authority of the necessary clarifications. It's also important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1025	‘The Council of State informed on 10 February 2010 that several measures were taken by the Kongsberg Hospital to correct deviations in the Food Authority, as pointed out in the October 2009 Health Authority report. There is now a presentation of the actions to be implemented and their progress plan. Are the Councils of State satisfied with the measures taken by the hospital and the plan of progress towards their implementation, in the light of the serious failure pointed out by the Health Authority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1032	I look very seriously at the matter at Kongsberg Hospital. West Viken HF did the right thing when they temporarily shut down the maternity ward. It is essential that food establishments be properly operated. Where the business is not operated properly, changes to the offer must be made. Establishments shall have clear selection criteria and available competence in order to maintain the births accepted by each department. Nevertheless, it is that we can never fully secure ourselves from unfortunate events. Complications can occur acutely and without warning, but, as I pointed out in the questionnaire last week: when serious situations arise that might have been avoided, we need to consider the events and possibly change the procedures to prevent this happening again. It shall be safe to give birth in Norway. The matter in question is now being dealt with by the State Health Authority and under police investigation. It would therefore not be right for me to comment on the health company's actions and progress plan to rectify the deviations at the maternity ward at the Kongsberg hospital. I am awaiting the treatment of the Health Authority and the investigation of the police. However, I stress that hospitals should have systems to ensure that patients receive adequate services in line with the applicable legislation and that the systems should be anchored at management level throughout the business. The board of Vestre Viken has asked the administration for a proposal to establish a midwife’s centre at the hospital in Kongsberg and for a detailed description of the process and measures that need to be carried out in order for the maternity ward to be able to accept birthing again. A family has lost a child, and many professionals are affected in this tragic case. It is important to address the incident and find the reason for it, so that it does not happen again, either in Kongsberg or in other hospitals. It is the hospital's responsibility to ensure that there are good practices, to ensure that the procedures are followed up, and to create a culture where it is safe to report adverse events. We're going to get away from the "sinbuck culture," i.e. the person triggering the event is designated as a scapegoat. Instead, we have to tackle the system to figure out how the event could happen. I therefore want there to be transparency about adverse events in our hospitals, and that events are used for learning and improving health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1045	Health companies are responsible for ensuring that patients receive a medically sound offer. The National Audit Office has pointed out that the health business boards do not properly discharge their responsibilities for internal control. It is also the responsibility of health businesses to ensure that deviations referred to by the Health Authority are actually followed up. Nevertheless, the Health Authority points out that hospitals do not learn from faults and therefore repeat them. I understand that the Council of State cannot control everything that happens in health businesses, but she is, as the owner of health businesses, the top responsible for health care services to the elected public. Therefore, it is appropriate to ask the Council of State what the Council of State is doing to ensure that health businesses comply with medical health requirements in the provision of healthcare. In the case in question, serious failure was identified as early as 2009, while the planned measures to remedy the failure were to be implemented several months later. So in the meantime, a child died. Is the Council of State confident that Health South-East and West Viken health companies have fulfilled their responsibilities to give birthers on Kongsberg a medically sound offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1052	I am concerned that both internal control and quality systems are in place, and especially in food supply, which affects so many. Then health South-East has both internal control and quality systems to follow up their health businesses. With regard to the matter in question, there was a report from the Health Authority that I personally entrusted to the representative, Höie, who asked me questions last week about exactly the same topic. I cannot go in and assess how this has been followed up in an enterprise that is under police investigation and in so far also under investigation by the Health Inspectorate. I have to wait for this. But for the time being, it is the offer for those who are to be born, which is important, and so it is at the Hospital Buskerud in Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1059	The size has been in favour of a differentiated and decentralised food supply, but has underlined the need to maintain quality. From the Right, we want to maintain a food offer at Kongsberg, but it requires a good and proper offer to the birthers. In November 2007, the National Council for Prenatal Care gave up its duties, having regard to the fact that failure of maternity care was not adequately followed up by the government of Stoltenberg. It's serious. This was considered by the Health Authority to be so serious that new supervision was launched and a report published in May 2008 was prepared, summarising the supervision of the small food departments. It should be noted, inter alia, that: that small maternity wards face major challenges in providing adequate birth care at risk and that there are inadequate selection procedures. What does the Council of State do to ensure that health undertakings ensure the provision of a good quality medically sound supply to all birthers? In fact, it is the Minister of Health who is ultimately responsible when health businesses and regional health businesses do not take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1066	There should be no doubt that I have overall responsibility, but at the same time, there are different businesses at different levels that also have a different responsibility for implementing what has been adopted. In the case of the maternity wards, there are three levels for maternity wards in Norway: maternity wards, maternity wards and female clinics. It is the responsibility and good systems of selection to select who is to be born in the various institutions. That's something we're following up on. In parallel with this, the representative, Sjøli, is aware that there is now work going on in the regional health companies, following up on the big message that came last year, I think it was, a happy event, just to look at the food supply across the country. It is the regional health companies that follow up on this. That work will be completed in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1078	‘The Ministry of the Environment has rejected a complaint from the County Environmental Protection Department and has authorised the construction of 32 wind turbines in the municipality of Farsund. This involves very large environmental interventions in the form of new roads to 32 mountain peaks. A municipally approved regulatory plan on the listing of, inter alia, 23 naust boats has subsequently been rejected by the Ministry of the Environment. Both measures are socially viable, but have had quite different final results. Can the Council of State do anything to ensure that such discrimination against plans in the same municipality will not take place in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1085	In both of these cases, there were objections due to conflict with national interests. This implies that the Ministry of the Environment takes the final decision. The Ministry has 40 to 50 cases of this kind each year, with a total of about 40 to 50 cases. 2 200 plans adopted in the municipalities. So the municipalities are finally taking decisions in 98 pst. of the plans. I mention this because it is often given the impression that the Ministry of the Environment sits and dominates in many cases. The opposite is the case. There are almost always good local balances using the county and the municipalities that solve the issues locally, and then there are only a few very few issues that come to central treatment. The Ministry of the Environment’s examination of the objections to the regulatory plan for Lista wind power plants focused on good wind resources in the area and that the plant will contribute to regional and national power availability. The Ministry was aware that the measure could lead to conflicts with the environmental values of the List. However, the Ministry confirmed the municipal regulatory plan on the basis of an overall balance between the benefits of increased renewable energy production and the negative effects on landscapes, cultural memories and the natural environment. Let me add that this is one of the most difficult things we have had, one where we were in great doubt, and where there was a balance between two important environmental considerations, one was renewable energy in Norway in the form of wind power, which is desirable, and the other was the very significant negative environmental costs on the List of this facility. So there's a few things I've had on my table, where I've been so in doubt about the result as in this one. The Ministry of the Environment has further confirmed the regulation plan for the Mosvold marina in Farsund. 23 boathouses in the beach zone are excluded from the confirmation. The reason was that the boathouses became dominant in the landscape and blocked the contact between the beach zone and the lake. Small boat harbors accommodate 500 boats, while boathouses would accommodate 46 boats. Attention has been paid to the fact that the plan already includes existing boathouses, and that there is a strong growing interest in building boathouses that seize an increasing part of the beach zone. In each case, the Ministry of the Environment makes a balance between different interests, which in many cases also affects other departments. In the two cases, there are quite different societal interests and environmental values that have been assessed. Therefore, the fact that cases have different outcomes is not a result of discrimination but a consequence of the fundamentally different issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1098	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, although I disagree with some of the points of view, especially with regard to existing boathouses. But in the evening post of February 3rd, there is a big announcement that the Prime Minister and the head of the Central Party and the SV will listen to the people, and I guess that also means listening to the local politicians. The boat's east is on large parts of the Southland part of the boat culture, and must necessarily be in the beach zone. I can't see that the beach zone is more sacred ground than the rest of the municipal grounds, so mills should be built there. In this case, the Ministry of the Environment has not at all listened to the local government of Farsund. Is the Council comfortable with the fact that the Department of the Boating Department has overrun the local self-government? If the answer is yes, it must mean that the Council of State disagrees with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Knowledge that the Government should listen to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1103	Now I don't know what Skumsvoll's attitude to both of these projects is. Based on the knowledge of the general policy of the Progress Party, I assume that he is a member of both projects, but I do not know that. I have to admit that I have been very much in doubt about them both, and, as I said, we gave permission to the wind farm under strong doubt, because we thought – and believe – that it is important to get a development of the wind industry in Norway, and that this was an area that was well suited to the technological wind for the wind industry, though the environmental costs were great. Of course we should listen to the people, but when I talk to people, they come very often with two different texts. Yes, very many want to expand their own cabin or boathouse, but as well as everyone wants the beach zone to be a place for general traffic, where you can add at docks, you can grill, where you can have a nice life, and they also want the beach zone to be open for future generations here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1110	Thank you again for your answer. Skumsvoll was against windmill construction because of the great interference in nature. The current policy of the coastal zone will be a strong obstacle to development. The southern villages of which we are so proud would never have been built today. According to the SSB, during the 20-year period from 1985 to 2005, in the coastal zone of Farsund, only 2 pst were built. This shows that the municipality is very restrictive with the construction of the beach zone. The regulation plan contained 500 boat seats and 23 boat noses. The measure is very social in nature and will be able to assist the municipality in attracting professionals to job vacancies. Is the Council of State willing to reconsider the plan on boating nostrils, based on local tradition, but not least because of the social impact that the boating nostrils could have on the municipality of Farsund?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1119	Let me first say that I am pleased that Skumsvoll was skeptical about the wind farm, because it shows a real environmental exposure that I think is nice to see in the Progress Party, and I am also pleased to hear that the municipality of Farsund, without knowing the details, is pursuing a restrictive policy regarding the development of the beach zone. Let's just recognize that these are difficult balances. The Government wants to ensure that significant areas of the remaining areas of the Norwegian coastal zone are available to the public. Yes, we all – many of us – want to have a cabin, boathouse, etc. in the beach zone, but we also want to be able to add the boat where others are, we want to be able to go in the beach zone, we want to be able to use it for trips, to play football, to grill. In short, we want the beach zone to be an open place for many people, and we want the next generation to have the same opportunity to stay in the beach zone that our generation has had. If we do not then pursue restrictive policies, none of this will be possible. Therefore, some measures need to be rejected, even if there should be local outreach about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1129	‘The average difference between Middle Norway and South Norway in spot prices of electricity has been 2 øre in 2009 and 10 øre in 2008. If the entire power generation had been sold at spot prices, it would be equal to 2.4 billion. kr in premium for the years 2008 and 2009. Equally, the State Council in Stortinget replied on 13 January 2010: ‘Furthermore, the situation is not that Central Norway is in a special situation in relation to Norway.’ What is needed for the Government to take action to improve the situation or to compensate for the disadvantages experienced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1136	The representative of Hofstad Helleland quotes an opinion from me in Stortinget on 13 January this year. First of all, the sentence is something out of context. It was part of an answer to a specific follow-up question from the representative Solvik-Olsen where he showed that the electricity price in Middle Norway has been very high for some hours this winter, and also something beyond it. What is referred to as ‘Norway’ in this quotation is a reference to the Nordic region. I have also commented on this earlier in Stortinget. It's a significant shade. The main point in my reply was that Norway is an integral part of the Nordic power system and the Nordic power market. What I said after the referenced sentence was: ‘Midt-Norway is initially part of the large Nordic power market, where the price is relatively equal. What has been particularly long this year is that the price in South Norway has been lower than in the Nordic countries – because the transmission links have been less than the representative and the undersigned agree that they should be.” In central Norway, prices in the years to which the representative Hofstad Helleland refers have been around the level of the rest of the Nordic region, while South Norway and Jutland have distinguished at lower prices due to restrictions in their transmission capacity. In January and February of this year there has also been the situation. Statnett has been given responsibility for establishing price ranges to handle large and long-term bottlenecks in the regional and central networks. It is an instrument that ensures power imports into the deficit areas until permanent solutions for increased generation and transmission capacity are established. However, my ambition is equal to the price of electricity in Norway — regional price differences are undesirable. The strategy to improve the power situation in central Norway is based on a wide range of measures. It concerns the deployment of renewable energy, in the case of energy conversion, and not least better transmission capacity into the region. Statnet has made major improvements in the transmission system within and into central Norway in recent years. I refer in particular to the transfer link Nea–Järpström, which has strengthened the capacity of Sweden. In recent years, Statnett has invested SEK 5 billion in the region, and additional investments of SEK 21⁄2 billion are planned in central Norway. The main measure in the future is to establish a new link between Sogn and More. This will significantly improve the power situation in Central Norway. At the same time, work is continuing on energy conversion and on increasing renewable energy production. To conclude, the government’s work is not primarily directed towards compensating for what is experienced only now, but rather at compensating for past failures that have actually been committed — including sufficient deployment of the grid to ensure security of supply, and new renewable energy production that should be realised, and by contributing to the fact that price variations are not the way we see them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1154	I thank you for your answer. It is allowed for everyone – even for a Council of State – to say wrong sometimes, so we have corrected that misunderstanding. Equally full is the situation in Middle Norway serious. Yesterday I had a meeting with Washington Mills at Orkanger, which tells me how challenging the power situation is, and I've had a meeting with a dairy farmer from Orkdal, who tells me that the farmers in Middle Norway are now going to fear for the next power bill to come in the mailbox – they almost dare not go out to the mailbox and look at the power bill, because it's so high, and they're afraid they won't pay it. Unfortunately, I feel in many ways that the minister does not take the situation into account in central Norway, and that it is presented as if we from central Norway were dealing with a situation that is not real. We don't! The problem is that the government doesn't take reality into account. My question is, When will the Council of State go to Central Norway to meet industry, industry and interest groups? The councils are invited by this. When will the Council of State come to Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1165	If that question was raised by the representative of Greece, it concluded with a question of whether or not the Council of State is coming to Central Norway, then I am a little surprised at the background of the question. I can confirm that I'm going to Central Norway relatively soon. I have been to Middle Norway, and I have very good contact with Middle Norway, not least through very active party organisations in the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. If it had been such that the government and the state council had not taken the Middle Norway situation seriously, the representatives of these organizations would have made sure that it was changed. The reality is that it works under high pressure in the middle of Norway. I have now referred to the representative – and also in a previous debate – the 71⁄2 billion DKK invested to improve the situation in Central Norway in order to correct past cases of negligence. I find that it doesn't make any particular impression, but that's the reality – it's done a lot!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1174	It doesn't make any sense to me that a government council is indebted to former colleagues. It doesn't make any sense at all, nor does it affect them in central Norway. To the orientation of the Council of State goes his own, if you call them in the Workers' Party, now out and demand price caps and demand that the Government act towards Middle Norway. So it's a very different story I'm told here by the Council of State than the government party representatives in Central Norway are experiencing. That's probably why LO in Trøndelag and NHO last Monday had to sit down and meet with the Progress Party and the Right, because they feel that they're not going through with the Government, and that the Council of State is not taking over the reality they're experiencing, and that the Council of State is not open to dialogue either. This is not something that we just perceive – I also see that Olav Versto writes in the VG on Saturday: ‘Midt-Norway has a chronic power crisis because the power generation in the country is too small and because the external transmission capacity is insufficient. In an ice cold winter, the crisis becomes acute.’ My question is, what does the Government do in the short term to correct the power balance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1188	We build networks, we spend money on renewable energy, and we spend money on energy conversion in Central Norway. These are the measures that actually produce results. And we also see now that the power flow between Central Norway and the Nordic market otherwise works in a completely different way than what has been in the past. So I think it's relatively special that the representative doesn't take into account that the power market actually works over some time, and that the decisions that were made some years ago are actually something that needs to be handled in 2010. There's nothing that suddenly appeared in 2010, there's a correlation between decisions taken a few years back in time and the situation we're now experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1193	I'm sorry, I'm worried that the signals coming from Mid-Norway are not reaching the government. It's quite serious. To put it that way: it's not often that the LO has to sit down with the right-hand side of Norwegian politics because they feel that they don't get to the red-green ones. We just saw that the Workers' Party also went out on a double page in the Address Paper and demanded action from the Government. Then I am not impressed by the fact that the Council of State here tells me that there is such a good dialogue with actors in Central Norway. What will the Council of State do to meet us? I record that the Council of State says he has a good dialogue with the red-green ones. But what does the Council of State do to allow others in central Norway to engage in dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1200	I think I answered that question earlier in this lineword exchange. First of all, we have a travel business that includes Middle Norway. We have channels that are open to many, many more than red-green politicians. The situation that is now in Norway, with a different electricity price, is a situation that I have said on repeated occasions from the Stockholm pulpit is not a sustainable situation. The best way to deal with it is to develop more networks in Norway and to improve the flow of power. There's a video that I get from Middle Norway, which is followed up. I have also received input from Middle Norway about expanding more power generation. We're doing that now through Enova grants. I've received input from Middle Norway about more energy efficiency. So let's do that. I did not hear the representative of Hofstad Helleland come up with any suggestions other than those I have now mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1212	I'll fold my hands in the hope that everyone gets their bonus questions in the line-up. It'll be fine. The question is: ‘There are more than 100000 oil burners in Norway and there is considerable flexibility in the supply of energy. There is an emerging interest in using bio-fire oil. However, stakeholders feel that the market is uncertain because most people perceive that removing oil fires is a political goal. Furthermore, Enova should have instruments to support a bio-fire oil investment, but it is missing. Will the Council of State contribute to the Government’s focus on cutting unwanted emissions from oil fires rather than attacking the infrastructure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1223	I'm not sure if there is a need for bonus questions here, because I think maybe the representative and the undersigned are quite agreeing on the topic that is being addressed. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the use of oil fires in buildings is an important environmental concern and a clear policy objective. However, I am not concerned that the combustion plant itself needs to be removed. There are good opportunities for converting parts of installations to use environmentally friendly fuels. The energy conversion is designed to limit the use of fuel oil and electricity for heating and to increase the use of water-borne heat based on renewable energy, waste heat and heat pumps. That's why the government has, first of all, strengthened its efforts through Enova. Secondly, we have increased the basic cost of fuel oil by approx. 5 øre/kWh to get a better exchange ratio. Thirdly, we have introduced requirements in the building regulations to cover a substantial part of the heat demand in new buildings with energy sources other than electricity and fossil fuels. We have had new regulations at the hearing in the autumn where further intensifications were proposed in this legislation. With this in mind, I would say that the government's focus is to the most extent that it's the unwanted emissions we want to release, and not necessarily the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1234	On Enova’s website, it has said ‘National hard work for the removal of oil fires’. This is evidence of a different approach from that expressed by the Council of State. Based on conversations with some of the relatively few, but yet existing bio-fire oil providers in the country today, they do not feel that there is predictability of their product, because people perceive it as going to kill the oil burners. How will the Council of State help Enova to reconcile bio-based fuel oil primarily with other renewable energy measures, so that bio-based fuel oil can also benefit from the use of Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1243	I think we should be honest that the question of bio-fire oil has been little on the agenda until now. It has been defined as a relatively low potential. We've seen a little bit more interest in the product in later times, and I think we, too, from the authority side, are going to increase the focus towards that area now. And I'm going to follow up on that in different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1248	At least that's a nice greeting. Then we're going to hope that it's realized in something concrete. But another variant of the challenge is also what the Council of State raised about waterborne heat. There may be different points of view about the profitability of some district heating projects, but what we know is that the point load on district heating is often fossil energy, oil firing/gas firing. But very few, if almost anyone, view bio-fire oil as an alternative. Will the Council consider whether at least district heating, when it is to be defined as environmentally friendly to replace electricity, should have a higher proportion of biobased fuel oil in the peak load ratio, rather than a stamp on it, so that up to half can actually be normal oil and gas that would really have such a good environmental impact if it were used only in individual households rather than in a district heating system?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1255	I think the representative again addresses a relevant issue, and the first part of my answer is a bit like that, that I think only the question itself shows that the focus on bio-fuel oil has been relatively small, and it has not been included in the discussions on different alternatives. So yes, I think the recording makes sense. In other words, we also have the advantage that in the dwellings and buildings where oil fires are installed, there is also much more infrastructure for waterborne heat, which means that the conversion costs of a more environmentally friendly energy form, regardless of whether one chooses to use bio-fire oil or other inputs, are much less than what they would be in other buildings. So there are some possibilities here that I'm set to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1265	This question, from the representative of Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1268	‘The dairy farmers in Norway want to enter offensively into the future. 47 pst. of cows’ milk producers wishing to increase production, a survey on the future plans of Norwegian cows’ milk farmers carried out by the Agriculture Investigation Office shows. What will the Council of State do to enable dairy farmers to develop further and increase their milk production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1275	Both the Minister of Agriculture and I are pleased that many milk producers want to go offensively into the future. Milk production and the related beef production are an essential part of Norwegian agriculture, not least in District Norway. But also the representative, Mr. Treldal, has noticed that there have been signs that many perceive profitability as a challenge and something that needs to be worked on further in order to get a positive development. For this reason, milk production is a priority in the current agricultural agreement. The entire application for this contract year went to the grass-based part of the livestock farm. That's 75 pst. of which milk production benefits during 2010. In addition, the agricultural investment package amounts to 150 million. kr in 2009 and increase in BU funds in 2010. The interest rate aided loans framework increased by 300 million. NOK 1, 000. Much of this will go to milk production. And that's important, because many people are in a situation where they have to invest a lot in new buildings and new production equipment in order to be adapted to future milk production and the frameworks that apply then. This government has also increased grazing subsidies by 400 million. kr, opened for re-establishment, significantly improved the conditions of the milk/poultry combination and significantly increased the allocation of operating grants for milk production. The latter is not least important, because that scheme has a strong structure profile, and the scale of benefits varies in different parts of the country. The government has also increased the flexibility of the allowance scheme. We've opened up to lease allowances. Together with the buying and selling of milk quotas, the quota system has never been more flexible and more developed than it is now. At the same time, we have done this by maintaining trading regions and capping quota sizes. It is necessary, together with the economic instruments that we want to develop further, to ensure regional stability and to counteract the significant industrialisation and centralisation that would accompany a possible release. We have a limited national market. A release here would result in temporary overproduction, loss of income and rapid dehulling of producers. The quota system strengthens the ability to generate income and stability for producers, so it is important to be able to have a quota system that is liberal enough to allow for development, while at the same time contributing to market stability. The government's efforts to facilitate the offensive entry of milk producers into the future, I have to say that I am in a certain contrast to the fact that individual parties in the Stortinget have submitted alternative budgets, with cuts in the agricultural agreement of about two thirds of the net income of Norwegian farmers. Had it been completed, probably the number had 47 pst. have been significantly lower when the answer was given. Internationally, we have experienced dramatic fluctuations in world market prices, including dairy products. Import competition is increasing, centralisation forces are strong, and technological developments change the framework conditions for the production of goods. It is important that we, as politicians, contribute to income opportunities, stability and predictability if we are to continue to exploit our grasslands and have active milk production throughout the country. That is what the Government will do, and I am convinced that the political will is crucial for the milk producers' desire to enter offensively into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1290	First of all, I have to say that it is a little sweet to hear that the Minister is so concerned about the agenda of the Progress Party. With all due respect, I think I know better how the Progress Party programme is. The Minister answers that he wants to increase the subsidies in the agricultural agreement. I don't think that's the right way to do it. Today, the red-green government has introduced a 400,000 litre dairy farmer’s ceiling for single use and 750,000 litres for co-operation. Then he says that the government has never been so flexible. If you call it putting a roof that way flexible, I think, with all due respect, you might live in another world. My question to the Council of State will then be: What development does the Council of State think it gives farmers to set such goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1299	Removing a roof does not help much if a milk producer does not make money per person. litre produced. There must be a level of profitability in order for production to be willing to develop. Now I didn't spend much time on the Progress Party programme, but the reality is that by removing as much support as the Progress Party suggests, it won't be profitable in milk production in Norway as we know it today. Then the Progress Party can remove as many thank you as they want, without that meaning anything to the development of the community. It must be profitable as a basis for production. There is no guarantee whatsoever other than by a combination of import protection which allows for a price in Norway, budgetary support to compensate for food production in a country such as Norway, and political will to show stability, which makes milk producers dare to build for 5, 6, 7 or 8 million. kr in the assurance that there is an income option in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1306	Today, Norway has the highest drop-out among dairy farmers throughout Western Europe. During the last decade, the number of dairy farmers has been halved, according to statistics. This is evidence that the agricultural policy of the red-green government is about to break the backbone of the Norwegian farmer. On the other hand, the Progress Party agrees with the Central Party’s central representative, Lundtegen, who has launched his own peasant rebellion against his own government. I think it is very positive that you also in the Center Party see that this is wrong and admits it. It simply shows that the Council of State, with its answers, does not have complete confidence among its own either. My question is: What changes to the Government's policy does the Council of State think it is necessary to avoid further abandonment of dairy farming and to make its own, with Lundtägen, satisfied with the Government's actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1315	First of all, I just want to repeat what I started my post saying, that the profitability of milk production is a challenge. That is what the Minister for Agriculture has said he wants as the main priority in the agricultural settlement in 2010. So we can quickly agree that there are significant challenges to the economy of milk production today. Otherwise, I'd like to invite the representative, Mr. Träldal, to read the whole story. We've never produced more food in Norway than we do in 2010. We have never produced more quality food in Norway than in 2010, so the quality has gradually been raised. The volume of milk production has also been maintained with fewer producers than before. There are very many of the European countries with which the representative, Mr Träldal, would like to compare us. If one looks at Norwegian food production over time, through the policy we have been able to maintain a production that many countries have not completed. So I completely disagree that this is a situation where everything has gone wrong, as the representative, Treldal, gives the impression. However, we have significant challenges related to the milk production economy, and it will give the Minister of Agriculture a priority in the agricultural sector this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1327	‘In the evening post on 10 February 2010, we can read about a mother who loses the right to care, which may mean that she also loses the opportunity to care for her own child. The local authority says that it would be absurd to force the mother into other work and allow other personnel to care for the son. Will the Council of State propose changes and take a holistic view of care, pay and social assistance schemes so that parents who are themselves at home with severely nursing children receive income from which they are paid in the form of a government pay scheme?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1334	The care allowance is provided to the care provider for children under 18 years of age who have a life-threatening or other very serious illness or injury and who, in the interests of the child, must remain in a health care establishment while the child is in hospital, or must be at home because the child needs continuous supervision and care. The right to care is limited to non-permanent care needs, except in unstable periods and during the initial phase of such a disease. Care is also provided for children under the age of 12 who are admitted to an institution or who, in the extension of hospital care, need continuous supervision and care at home. Apart from the age limits and the condition that the disease is not permanent, care allowance is not restricted in any other way than that it is related to the need. Furthermore, care allowance is provided for up to 20 days by care in the home of close relatives in the final phase of life. Care allowance is calculated as sickness benefit, i.e. up to a limit of 6 G you get 100 pst. of the basis. Aid is a public benefit aimed at providing financial compensation to those in need of special supervision and care. The benefit is provided to the care provider and is conditional on the existence of a private care relationship. The benefit may be granted regardless of whether the person exercising the care has other income. Nursing pay is a municipal benefit paid as a payment to caregivers who carry out particularly burdensome care tasks that would otherwise have been carried out by the municipality. It is the municipality that assesses and takes decisions on the scope and types of services, including pay for care. The representative’s question covers several services and services at different levels and raises a number of fundamental, legal and cost issues. The Government promoted on 11 December in Prop. 64 L for 2009–2010 proposals for legislative changes that provide better opportunities to combine work with care tasks. The proposal proposes, inter alia: improvements in the care system and the right to assistance. These proposals must also be seen in the context of the fact that the government parties in their political platform have said that they will review the care pay system. The Minister of Health and Health will reply to an interview about the care pay system in Stortinget on 2 March 2010, and I therefore allow myself to refer to her statement there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1345	This article in the Evening Post, to which I have referred, shows how hopeless today's legislation is, and why it is high time to look at these social welfare schemes together. Parents with highly nurturing children today have to deal with different social welfare schemes, which leads to considerable uncertainty as the schemes are unforeseeable and unforeseeable. The care pay scheme varies from municipality to municipality, and in fact there are 70 municipalities that do not practice the scheme at all. In many cases, it is actually best for the child if the parents can have the daily care and care. Then, in my opinion at least, it must be in general order to facilitate the possibility of doing so as much as possible. This means having a state-owned and predictable system that allows parents to live off income when they are at home with heavily nurturing children. I wonder how long this will take. Five years ago, when the strategy plan was presented, an investigation was already under way into these three schemes. Will the Council of State look at these three schemes as a whole and present a new scheme that can help parents like this woman here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1354	As I said at the outset, we have now put forward a proposal to extend the care period, from 20 to 60 days. The care allowance is 100 pst. pay and compensation for the loss of earnings during a period of care for the sick, but not based on a permanent illness. It's not a scheme to compensate for care in general, but to compensate for salary losses. Then, as I was talking about, you have several other types of arrangements. Care is paid, which does not provide an equivalent level of coverage, and which is a municipal benefit. I think it is important to be aware that the whole question – that is why I say that these are big, complicated questions – whether or not public care for sick children and the elderly should be replaced by private schemes, is a fundamental question where we may disagree. It is quite clear that, in general, there is a basis and an obligation from the public to just having arrangements to take care of these considerations. So we don't necessarily see it as a desire to have a private offer that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1363	I'm a little disappointed in that answer. In fact, I think most people think it's an advantage for parents to take care of their own children when they have the opportunity. I referred to a specific article about a mother who has good competence and who may have to take care of other children instead of her own because the systems are what they are. Five years ago, when the strategy plan was presented, such work was already under way. It clearly shows that the strategy plan has not been followed up, as has been pointed out by others, among others. FFO, and that it's a long way to go until that goal is achieved. With the different arrangements we have today, something is below Nav and something is the municipality's responsibility. As far as the care pay system is concerned, it is very little predictable. It varies from municipality to municipality in terms of both the amount of hourly rates and how much you get in compensation for being at home. This fact that you have a lot of different arrangements is unsustainable for those who have as much disabled children as this is about. This also applies to holiday pay and other things, when they have to stay home with the children for many years. Prop. 64 L doesn't deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1370	I think we can agree that these are difficult questions. I also think we should agree that there is one scheme that replaces the loss of pay, and where you are clear when it occurs. Then there are other arrangements in those cases where there is a need for more lasting care. They're municipal schemes, where you don't have the same compensation of pay, because it's going to cover something else. So it has public responsibility to provide care for those we're talking about here. So, in general, if you say that children are better cared for at home by their parents, it's a difficult question, where it's not always given that the answer is that the state should compensate for them being at home and being cared for by their parents. We have a public care system. We are also concerned that these schemes put pressure on those who are going to care, often women, and that they feel a responsibility for caring. To conclude, I would say that I see that there may be a need to look at the totality, and I will come back to it in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1379	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-17.ana.ud1366e1392	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. I do not know whether the representative Giltun as the only representative who is left in the Chamber is asking for the floor before the sitting is cancelled? - She doesn't. The meeting has thus been cancelled.
