ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e26	The representatives Erna Solberg, Øyvind Waksdal and Susanne Bratli, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The former deputy representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Bård Langsavåld, has taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Province of Buskerud: Ida Marie Holen For Vestfold County: Morten Stordalen Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Oskar J. Grimstad, Bjørn Lødemel, Erling Sande and Snorre Serigstad The elections on leave from 27 October to 29 October – all to participate in the high-level part of the 10th Conference of the Parties to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, in Nagoya, Japan. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Knut Magnus Olsen and Jacob Nødseth For the South Tribute County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e96	Jon Georg Dale, Knut Magnus Olsen, Jacob Nødseth and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e113	The Stortinget received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e122	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. On October 23, we read the following in the VG: ‘Data problems in NAV make it impossible to implement the substantial health and safety changes.’ [[...]] The Minister of Labour said in that interview that it was not impossible to implement it, but that it costs too much money, and that it is too expensive to correct these systems in Nav. It is probably more than I think it is embarrassing that the tools that were agreed this winter to reduce sick leave, are now exposed for an indefinite time, and the process has stopped completely. This means that many people who report the disease do not get the necessary help, and do not get the help they should have received, quickly enough. This also shows how serious the situation in Nav is. A central question to the Council of State, to find out more about this, could be: Did you know about these problems in advance when you sat down and started the IA negotiations? Not least, we also see — as emerged from the consultation in the Committee budget — that many new IA companies that want to enter are not allowed to enter because they are stopped at the Nav door because of capacity problems. So you don't have the opportunity to accept any more IA companies. I think that's a paradox. In particular, the Council of State should also know that these computer systems have been in place since 1978, so this is not a new problem – the problem has been mentioned in the annual reports of the National Audit Office for several years. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete plan does the government have to put in place the instruments agreed in a new IA agreement? And when can we expect them to start working?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e140	The IA agreement that we put in place earlier this year has far more instruments than this instrument that the representative is now addressing. However, as noted, it was agreed that the recommendations of the expert group related to co-financing were seen as one of several instruments to improve the organisation of employers in relation to long-term sick leave. So it was very clear in the agreement that this had to happen in such a way. ‘businesses and employees are confident that they will receive proper follow-up’. One should take a closer look at this, including: a screening rule, and the current system was to be continued until the parties agreed otherwise, if appropriate. On the state side, it was clear that there is a challenge to parts of the Nav ICT system, and that this could be a difficult system, but absolutely, as I have also said, a fully possible system. What happens is that you make an assessment and see if the so-called win goes up in the spin. Is it enough what you think is an incentive to reduce sick leave through the co-financing scheme that was in place here, to take on the heavy loads that, after all, are involved in the conversion of the computer system, which had to be done very manually, and which could also lead to some suspension of payments for a period of time? And you don't think it is. The state has always wanted a slightly larger room with regard to the co-financing scheme. We wanted a system where the employer's fee could have compensated companies that were good. We didn't get the parties to that. I've been ready for that before. In our view, within the framework of the co-financing scheme, it will be too little to win in relation to costs. So I emphasize that we now see the nitite, good work that happens in the companies, among other things. That we're getting sick leave down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e154	I just record that there is no plan for when this can be expected to be implemented. That's really what the Council of State takes 2 minutes to talk about. The answer could have been short and straightforward, and she could only use 5 seconds to say, no, you don't have a plane. It could also be interesting to challenge the Council of States in relation to diet-benefits. How expensive is it to put this computer system in place? Have you done any calculations on that? But it's not just in this area Nav is struggling with computer problems. We also saw that a good deal of pensioners, according to the National Audit Office, were not paid the right pension. The state had simply paid out too little in retirement because of the system. I now expect the Council of State to ensure that this is cleaned up, that the pensioners get paid the right pension, and that they also receive their pensions as soon as possible. Can the Council of State guarantee that anyone who has received a mispayment before Christmas will receive a refund of their pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e161	Why I first answered as I did, was because it was the impression that we had tried to trick the Stortinge that we knew something we did not know. It's not like that. We've done a calculated assessment with the parties whether this is wise to do. So in the case of pensioners, there are no pensioners who have not received their money. This is because, in the context of the introduction of the new pension system, the ICT pension system, there were some entry problems – 800 cases that had to be dealt with manually. It took some time. When you took old things into the new system, you found some ‘old fun’ to say it like that, which you had to sort out. But no one has received their money. Those who are now in their own account are matters where too much has been paid. Everyone who did not get their money in good time has received interest on late payments, 6 p.m..
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e168	There will be three follow-up questions – first Laila Marie Reiertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e171	About 78 000 people with disabilities are outside, but they want to get into the workplace. These represent a considerable amount of working capital, which is not being used today. Taking a starting point that half of these represent a residual working capacity of 40 pst, this corresponds to 15 600 years. So this is going to be 3 billion. kr i reduced payment for a disability pension. Furthermore, a transition from disability pension to full-time work will bring society 1 billion. kr i added value. The hub does not work in relation to the disabled. How long this group must wait for the help they need to get Objective 2 of the IA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e178	We've done a lot in the last year for this group by putting in place a system of work performance assessment and redundancy payments before Nav. These are important prerequisites for getting the tailor-made seam around the individual who is occupied by the whole of political Norway. Then we have a really big challenge for 78 000 people who are out of work. They were also outside — and it is important to note — when we had a high economic turnout in Norway, until 2008. My view is that it's clear that although we have a good economic policy, we can't get this group in. There's more to it. That is why I have now started working on an employment strategy for the disabled and have reduced two panels – a user panel and a panel with corporate competence, led by Yngve Högensen – to look at what is specifically needed to achieve this, and how to open up businesses to disabled people. Here I have also stressed that there are no simple solutions. Those who think we have simple solutions to this are overselling. This is hard work, and I am now challenging the parties very strongly on the IA agreement, Objective 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e185	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e188	The Council of State said that the state was aware that there were significant challenges to the Nav IT system and conversion in terms of greater responsibilities for employers during the sick notification period. But at a hearing held in the Committee on 15 October, UNIO, one of the parties to the IA negotiations, said that they had not been informed of this at any point during the negotiations. In particular, when you sit and negotiate the big structural grip of a new IA agreement, and the state knows that there may be problems with its implementation, the IA parties do not inform about it. My question is, When did the Council of State know that there were serious problems in implementing any change in the employer period? And why were not the IA parties informed about it in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e196	I don't think it's nice. This was about negotiations. It was a matter of having one model from the employer's side, which was thought to be the most favourable for them. The employee side was concerned about the protection system for the chroniclers. The state wanted to achieve an optimal solution – which we thought would be best, and which had the best economic incentives. There would have been a breakdown of the employer’s contribution. If we had done that, I think – without I'm sure to say it now – that most of the Nav conversions would have been worth that meeting. But when we see through negotiations that this is the result we get, we have to assess whether the win goes up in the spin. Shall we take the burden it is for Nav, a hub that I am extremely concerned about should be protected as far as possible for new tasks, if I don't think it will be very profitable for society and to bring down sick leave? That's how we judged it wasn't. Even though we were aware, so far as we were also sitting and negotiating, that this was a challenge, it was quite possible if we had thought it was worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e201	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e204	Today we have a situation here in the country where 600 000 people of pre-employment age are out of work. It is also the case that the percentage of people with disabilities in work is falling, contrary to the objective of the IA work. Nevertheless, the government chooses to reduce the level of ambition, to increase employment and activity, by reducing labour market measures by 7 000 action places compared to the 2010 figures. That means that many people who would otherwise have been helped to get out of work, don't get it, and it puts the work of getting disabled people back to work. This is not just a matter of concern to the Christian People's Party. HSH calls this a step in the wrong direction, the trade union expresses concern, and LO's comment on the cuts is that it can quickly turn out to be a bit of a mess with action areas. Is the government satisfied with a cut in action places for next year, or is the concern of social actors understood? In that case, is it willing to correct this by cutting action areas in the year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e211	I totally share the concern that we have 600 000 – we can see how the numbers are composed – which are not in ordinary work. We have to do something about that. One of the most important things we can do to get people into normal work is to keep a generally low unemployment rate, because we know that as soon as the unemployment rate increases, it's these marginal groups that go out. The government has made that clear. Then we have to bring down the sick leave, because the transition from sick leave to disability is a direct line. Now we see that goes down. We've put in 153 million. kr i proposed budget precisely to strengthen the IA Agreement. Then we have proposed that the Stortinge should allocate 175 million. kr at drop-out in school, because there's a direct connection between falling out of school and falling out of school. And we've suggested spending 100 million. kr to russokorg. We see that among the young disabled, there is a large amount of drug abuse. I think that now is the best way to spend money, and so we have some of the highest level of action ever in the history of this draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e220	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e223	I just have to make a very small visit to the previous question. As I understand the answer from the Council of State, the state was aware of these IT problems and challenges, but held it back from the IA parties to achieve the negotiation solution the state saw as correct. In that case, it's quite eye-catching. There has been a broad consensus in Norway for many years about strengthening the working line and getting more people from social benefits to work. It's obviously a complicated problem, and I'm not going to stand here and say there are some simple answers. However, there are some clear issues here that have been addressed by the Right. It's too many people that you actually don't make money to go from some kind of social welfare life to work. In the NRK program Specter we could for some time meet one of them, Aina Huseby from Oslo, 50 pst. who, when she calculates her monthly income, sees that she loses money on going from social security to full employment. It's obviously unreasonable. It's a lot to say that people are going to lose money and are left with less in their wallet if they choose to work more. One of the reasons for this is that there are too high taxes on low and medium incomes. Something could be done there, but the government has instead chosen to present a government budget that strengthens the social welfare line and weakens the working line. Is it the case that the Council of State in future budgets will fight for lower taxes and taxes on lower and middle incomes, so that it pays for people to go from social benefits to working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e236	And I want a little snow in the last question. So it's not like someone's been holding something back. Actually, I don't think there's anyone who really means that, either. The point is that when you negotiate, you are at a completely different level than when you sit and discuss data problems in Nav. So I just have to say that I fully agree that it's going to pay off to work. There's definitely a clear profile in this budget, that it's going to pay off to work. We have to get people back to work. Some of the absolutely important things we do, which I just referred to the previous questioner, are the prevention work, because we know that getting people who have been on disability pension for a long time, back to work, is very difficult. Preventing us from getting more is the most important thing. Now we're going to present a false report where we're just going to ensure two things at the same time: a good disability pension for those who're going to retire, and we're going to make it easier for people to combine disability pension and work. Today, those rules are not good enough. Among other things, there are not enough rules to stimulate people to have graduated disability pension, i.e. you can combine retirement and work. We're going to work on that. And I've invited, as it's pointed out in the paper, among other things. Right to cooperation on this. Then, of course, we're going to look at other instruments outside of this to get people to work. That's part of the job I'm doing with the employment strategy. As far as the tax system is concerned, this government has generally been ready to lower the tax for those who have the lowest tax and did not want to increase it for those who have a higher tax. So I really don't see any contradiction here. Saying that this is not a budget for work, I feel very, very wrong. This is a budget precisely to ensure that we continue to have the employment we have in Norway, which is absolutely essential to prevent us from having more work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e249	One hundred kroner in tax bills to one who makes 250,000 kroner does not make it pay any more to work. However, I am pleased that the Council of State says that it will pay off to work. What is alarming is that there is obviously full confusion about our time's most important welfare issues in the Workers' Party. Governments say one thing at a time when other workers' party politicians say something quite different. A while ago, we could, for example, read on the Workers' Party's website that the Right and Advance Party did, was to suspect everyone who is ill. We could also read that when people receive disability benefits and redundancy benefits or sickness benefits, it is because they are either ill or have a disability that makes them unable to work. The conclusion of this is clear, there is no point in making a policy to get people over from social benefits to work. Others have gone even further – and the president has to forgive the unparliamentary use of language when I quote from the daily newspaper on 19 October, where Anette Trettebergstuen from the Workers' Party says: ‘What the right does is piss on the workers.’ Is it such that the Workers' Party agrees on a line, or is there full confusion on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e265	The working party, which the representative is probably not surprised at, agrees with this in the sense that we believe it should pay to work. We're going to present a miscommunication that just reinforces the incentives to get people into work. What I've said very clearly is that a debate about people not wanting to work, or that morality is too bad, for me becomes very mad when we can't offer the 80,000 people who actually say they want to work, a decent job. There are a lot of people who actually want to get into work, and we have a challenge to change parts of our welfare system so that it happens. Then it is clear that there is a disagreement between the Right and the Labour Party about what causes people to fall out of work. There, I think, a good, solid labour market where people have safe rights works, and I think a good, systematic sick leave work works. Besides that, I'm not going to say anything but that there's a basic consensus about this in my party, but I stress that the quick fix solutions that the Right comes with, I haven't seen anything... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e274	Two follow-up questions have been asked – first Sylvi Graham.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e277	Yes, there are many thousands of people with disabilities who want to get into work. A quarter of the users-led personal assistant, BPA, has used the assistant to just get to work, shows a survey by Econ. In addition, BPA has allowed close family members to take up work. Probably most of these women are. In the recent consultation proposal for a new municipal health law, the government is failing to give everyone with a high level of assistance the right to user-driven assistance. The government is concerned that many will get this help and fear that it will be too expensive. Why will the government limit a system that allows disabled people to work, when this is positive for individuals, for the quality of life of individuals and for society?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e285	The government won't refuse people to do things that we think work to get people out of work. I think that's exactly what I've been saying today, that we're going to do a lot of things to get people to work. One of the most important things I do now is just to go through and look at what it is in today's system that makes us not getting these 78 000 out of work. The main problem, as I see it, is that we've been too ready to build people out of work and not get them into work. All recent research shows that first we get people into work, it's much easier to build them up and organize it there. That job has to be done. What I'm concerned about now is giving young people priority. I'm busy prioritizing the group from education to work, because they fall off, and I'm busy creating programs for them, just to build up around them. Then I will also look at the arrangement that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e290	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e293	In response to the representative, Røe Isaksen, the Council of State said that it wanted as many people as possible to be allowed to return to work. Nevertheless, we feel that the government is now reducing by 7,100 places compared to the initial level of action last year. I was in an early debate today with the representative of Thor Erik Forsberg, who defended this with the fact that it was a tightening budget. At the same time, we have received clear feedback from the hearings that one of the most important measures to get people back to work and not overtime is to have a high level of action. What mitigating effect can it have on preventing people from getting into work, and leaving them in disservice? After all, it must have a cost effect far higher than any mitigation effect, in any case. My question is: does the Council of State consider that the level of action does not matter in order to keep more people in work and to allow more people to return to work, rather than to social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e298	I believe that the level of action is important. If not, I would not have gone for the fourth highest level of action ever. And if you look at the budget, you'll see that there's a high level also compared to the number of action sites, when we now have a much more tailor-made programme for the action areas. So, I mean, we've adjusted this down a little bit because we've adjusted the unemployment rates, and we've been clear that if those unemployment rates don't match, if they don't go in the direction that we've assumed, we'll see this over the course of the year. But what I think is a little sad about this debate, is, as I said earlier today, we've had about 80,000 people in this country outside of work who want to get into work, long before this government started working on it, and the only thing we get from the debate, goes to 3,000, or 4,000, because I don't think the number is necessarily important, action places more or less. In my view, the number of action sites alone does not solve this problem. We have to be willing to start thinking a little bit differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e305	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e308	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The Villax is a living environmental barometer, which shows whether we manage watercourses, coastal and marine areas in a sustainable way. Salmon fever was closed for fishing this year, and seven out of ten Norwegian wild breeds are dying out, according to a report from the Scientific Council for Salmon Management. The Directorate for Nature Management considers that more than half of the farmed salmon must be slaughtered in order to afford salmon leaves. Both trade unions and environmental organisations agree that we have major challenges in the way today’s farming industry operates. It's not sustainable. Professor Trygve Poppe at Norway’s veterinary high school also believes that the tolerance limit has been breached. He has no faith that the farming industry itself is able to sort things out, and warns against Norwegian farming following in Chile's footsteps. There the whole industry was laid fallow as a result of disease and salmontus, and great values were lost. There is no lack of warnings about the situation in the farming industry. It is the responsibility of the Council of State if it goes wrong both with the farming industry and with our wild axis. Governments have opted for advice from the professional bodies responsible for life in the sea, including: Directorate for Nature Management and the Institute for Marine Research. Is that responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e321	The size of the aquaculture industry does not determine whether it is sustainable or not. The crucial thing is how it operates. Last report from the Food Safety Authority shows an average picture where the situation this year is similar to last year, but there are large geographical differences. Last year the environmental protection authorities and the fisheries authorities agreed that in 80 pst. of the premises there was room for growth within sustainable measurable parameters. Then I came in and got the lice development, and then stopped that growth until we have the situation under control. What is important to emphasise then is that we have to control the level of salmon dust, that we have to control the resistance image, and not least that the measures work. When it comes to comparison with Chile, it's hard to see that we can compare this. First of all, they have a different type of lice in Chile. Secondly, we are talking about levels far beyond what we see in Norway today. We have a check where the plants are required to count lice. It's not in the period we're now in, access to have more than one lice per fish. In Chile, as far as I'm aware, levels of up to 34 lux per fish were completely different from what we see in Norway today. When we discuss developments in the industry, I refer to the Food Authority, which is responsible for lice and disease both on wild fish and on farmed fish. I'm in close dialogue with the Food Authority about it. That is why I also stopped the growth that was planned last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e332	When the lice level is as high as it is now, the Council of State had no choice but to cancel the capacity increase, one would believe. But heavy trade unions point out that even today's capacity is too high. The question will then be whether we are going in the wrong direction – a course towards the closure of the Norwegian farming industry and the eradication of the wild species, to put it at the head. The Christian People's Party believes that we must slaughter salmon and break down the most lucified feathers. In addition, we need to take binding measures to ensure an environmentally sustainable farming industry. Will the Council of State take action to help us get these closed installations into the sea to avoid the major challenges of salmon and escape?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e341	It has been shown that the heavy trade union community is supporting a strong depopulation of salmon in Norway today. Now both the Marine Research Institute and the Veterinary Institute have gone out and refuted that they have given us that kind of advice, and also clarified it through the media today. So to the future, what I've been thinking about is we're going to get control of the level of lice. We see that we are successful in some areas, for example. in Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland, where the level is one third compared to the same time last year. We see that we succeed in some areas. Then we have challenges related to resistance. It's serious, and that's also the background that before we allow growth in these areas, we say we have to have it in place. Then you get to find the tools that are needed to succeed further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e350	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e353	I feel that the Council of State is minimizing the serious situation that we now see for the wild. Seven out of ten wild breeds are dying, and the Council of State says that it is not willing to stick to the arguments of environmental experts. Director Janne Sollie of the Directorate for Nature Management is not anyone when it comes to the problem of wild-catch. It is then especially when the Council of State says in today's business, and she repeated this here, that she only takes care of the Food Authority. The Council of State is part of a government which, of course, has to take care of the Food Authority, but also of the Directorate of Nature Management, which offers such clear advice in such a serious matter. So my question is, is it that environmental advice is not taken into account in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e361	Clearly, environmental advice is being taken into account by the government. As I said, last year the environmental protection authorities and the fisheries authorities agreed that a growth of 80 pst was advisable. of the premises in Norway. That's why it was announced. I put it on hold with a background in the luxuries. Then we have a division of labour. The Directorate for Nature Management is responsible for wild species and natural diversity. Food surveillance is responsible for lice and other diseases on farmed and wild fish. Of course, they receive advice from the Institute of Marine Research, the Veterinary Institute and the environment that contributes. That is the basis for the choices made by the government in this area. Then I register that both the Marine Research Institute and the Veterinary Institute in the public space are given advice they have not given. That's what I think is demanding, and it's hard, because it does something about trust in the whole system. We have to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e370	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e373	I am very pleased with the clarifications that the Minister for Fisheries has made here. It's also a very wise decision the Council of State has made, and does not go into the trap of discussing the killing of 50 pst. of the farmed salmon in this country, as it may be heard as the Christian People's Party believes is a good idea, together with the Directorate of Nature Management. My question to the Council of State is the following, precisely in the light of the performance of the Director of the Directorate of Nature Management this weekend: Will the Council of State have a conversation with the Minister of the Environment, that is, with Erik Solheim, who has also repeatedly gone into the trap of talking about the need for farming facilities to land? The Directorate for Nature Management is constantly being referred away, forgetting that other institutes and directorates have much more knowledge of the farming industry. Question two: Why should MTB be expanded in areas that do not have salmonmus, just as an opportunity for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e382	Of course, in the government we are discussing all areas, including this. That was also the background for the government going in last year to offer a growth in the industry in 80 pst. of the areas. The environmental protection authorities and the fisheries authorities agreed. Then there's a discussion about action, and that's an important discussion. Technological developments have been high in the aquaculture industry. I assume that it will continue, and that the industry itself actually sees the benefits of using the best technology, also in relation to environmental sustainability. When I put the whole growth on hold, it was based on the fact that the situation was serious last autumn. It is still serious in some areas. The representative is absolutely right that we have areas where we don't have problems with lice and resistance at all. There are also areas where they have the longest remaining before they reach their capacity ceilings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e391	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e394	The Council of State stresses that she is dealing with the Food Authority, and I agree with that to the extent that you do. The problem is that very many others deal with other voices in public, including those from directorates and other places. It creates great uncertainty for the industry, and it also creates great uncertainty among politicians – as we have heard in the main issue of the Christian People's Party today. This means that there is now an urgent need to clarify it from the government and from the Council of State who is responsible for the farming industry and for the consequences that the farming industry has to impose on society. I think it is totally unsustainable that we should be hovering in the uncertainty we now have. Will the Council of State take action to clarify the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e401	I assume that in this Chamber there is no one in doubt about who is responsible for the aquaculture industry – that is the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Therefore, of course, I answer all the questions related to it. In my work I seek advice where the advice is to find. Developing good competences and knowledge environments in this area is important. We have that in the Marine Research Institute and the Veterinary Institute. They give their advice to the Food Authority, who is clearly responsible for giving me advice. But then it's like those who have the real responsibility to get the situation right are the industry. The industry is responsible for getting the lice down, to deal with the resistance situation and the woes of the wild species – that's what we're talking about. This is the responsibility of the aquaculture industry, and I keep reminding them of it. They also know who is responsible for the management of the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e410	Abid Q. Raja - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e413	There is a very serious development of the resistance of salmonnus in the plants, and the experts have called for an alarm on behalf of the wild and sea trout. Despite the massive focus on salmonnus, extensive synchroes and leachings for about 1 billion. the situation is no better than one year ago when emergency situations are notified. The council says it's not the size of the industry that's crucial, but how it's run. Even if a bow fits any oat sack, it should be seen that the industry is not properly operated and the Council of State should at least be able to see the connection between lice and wild salmon. Breeding is a very well-organized industry. It should therefore be possible to require more of the industry: achieving clear objectives, instruments and deadlines addressing the various environmental challenges. We have such agreements with the mainland industry in terms of climate emissions. When will the Council of State establish a clear and more binding agreement with the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e422	The questioner is quite right that the aquaculture industry is a very important industry. It is important for many small and large coastal communities. It is important for Norway, and the government has high expectations of the place of the aquaculture industry in financing the welfare society in the future. Then there has been a challenging situation in several areas, especially in the case of lice. As I said in previous answers, we see that in some areas the industry succeeds, in other areas it has unfortunately gone in the wrong direction. The problem of resistance is one of the areas that is serious. Then we should not forget that we have had a short-term goal and a long-term goal. The short-term goal was that when the wild salmon, which is particularly vulnerable to salmonnus, wandered out into the sea, it could pass without much lice. Preliminary results from the 2010 census of leaches on emigrating smolts suggest that the leaching campaign this year was successful, as it may appear that the wild species migrated into the sea with minimal lice impacts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e431	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e437	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e440	Then it goes from lice to transportation. I have a question for the Minister of Transport. First of all, I would like to say that I am happy for every extra penny you can shake out of the Minister of Finance's wallet for transportation. But on Monday we were told that the 2012 train revolution, with new trains and trains coming on time, was cancelled, and no one will anymore fix the time of the revolution. Until that happens, people will still be on the platform waiting for the trains that are not coming – both because the government cuts the train offer so that the problems in winter will not get too big, and also because you cannot ensure that the trains go when they are going to go. Unfortunately, the situation is not particularly pleasant on the road either. Here, the revolution is definitely canceled long before you have started to deal with the challenges at all. The costs run smoothly, without the government having listened to the professionals' desire to think differently and smarter. Obviously, the attitude is, we know best, so you can't come here and come here. Despite the government's so-called bet, according to OFV it will take 50 years to build a modern and efficient road network, and not least it will take several decades before we can even talk about taking the zero vision of zero seriously injured and killed in real life. The development of roads is road safety. People don't understand why the government refuses to listen to professionals' perceptions of making things more effective, for example. to use total enterprise, OPS or project financing, or even better, to develop larger and more comprehensively instead of today’s expensive and sluggish development. In 2010, we're going to build 12 km of highway and 14.5 km of middle. In Sweden, the 200 km middle parts are built at the same time, and there they have calculated that for every 50 km middle parts, the number of fatalities is reduced by one every year. I wonder why the government doesn't see that a massive expansion of the road network drastically reduces accidents. The question to the Council of State is: what is it that prevents the government from launching a development revolution, as is done in Poland and Albania, in order to improve road and rail transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e451	Let me first pink Hoksrud for his commitment to better track and road and more road safety. It's an engagement I share. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to clarify a clear misunderstanding, namely that better trains in the Austland area, that is, the name of the 2012 Route Plan, which involves a gradual introduction, have been cancelled. That is not the case. There is a budget deficit for 2011, there is a warning of additional hardships, and there is a detailed description from the Railway Agency of what is needed for a complete new timetable. Job No 1 for me is getting today's train on the way. It means much more maintenance than what was previously planned. So it shows again in 2011, it's going to show up again in the other budgets we've submitted, a historic railway budget where we're both going to open new projects in 2011, are going to start new ones, and we're going to have a deal that will provide us with a good basis for decisions in the national transport plan in 2013. When it comes to road, I don't know anything about it in the description, either. So we have an extra road budget so far by 45 pst, rail by 67 pst. – I forgot to mention that. This means a follow-up rate in NTP of slightly less than 50 pst, but where we are on both maintenance, road safety and minor repairs. In terms of road safety, measures other than those at the centre of the road are also effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e462	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I could imagine to know if the Council of State can figure out a new time for the implementation of the 2012 Route Plan, so that all the commuters and all those waiting for trains to arrive know when they will. When the Council of State also said last Monday that it would reduce the offer to improve the offer, I do not think that those who tend to use the train offers feel the same way as the Council of State put it. But to challenge the state council further, because I think she's very little responding to the challenges on the road: so we're going to build 14.5 kilometers in the middle of 2010. Sweden builds 200 km. So that means that they're going to reduce the number of deaths in traffic by four every year. So in Norway, we're building 14.5 km. That means it'll take years just to meet it. In addition, 1 240 km of the national road network has one field – in the year 22 km and next year 15 km.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e469	First of all, all those standing and freezing at the stations: I asked the railway station and the NSB in our spring to have a better winter preparation. They have. This means that they both cut take-offs from the NSB's side, have parts in stock and have de-icing machines in use. For the Railway Agency, it means that they have more people, they have more and more machines, and they have done even more renewal work. This means that they have both better information, and they have different plans for winter and extreme weather, to put in place more robust routes. I actually think it's better for people on Kolbotn at 07.06. departure, at 08.06. departure and at the departure from Lillestrom 07.08 – three trains that rarely go – to know that the train doesn't go, so they can plan other departures. So to midpoints, there's the point that 30 years ago Sweden built a more broad road, and it's much easier for them to implement multiple midpoints.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e476	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e479	Governments are good at pointing out the government's plan that it will take 50 years to implement — in the worst case. Transport users perceive reality quite differently from what the Council of State describes. The NHO, which measures the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises, also measures it in the transport sector. They measured in 2010, they measured in 2005, and Norway falls. Norway is now ranked in the tenth place of 12 countries in terms of transport. It is particularly standard for infrastructure and poor maintenance on infrastructure that makes transport users perceive and feel that they are getting a worse offer. So this is about competitiveness. What will the government do to take action other than to spend 50 years getting modern infrastructure in Norway? What will the government do to implement new implementation models and new funding models?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e486	First, if the Progress Party was busy with road safety, they would support the need for action on the road both to driving and to drivers. Then they would continue what many researchers say, namely, that if one runs restless, holds the speed limits, and uses the belt, the number of people killed by traffic, and hard damage could be halved. So it's that an OECD report tells us that Norway is the one that uses the most on the road per capita, and much more than that. Albania. We got a little late, but we're going to keep up with 100 billion. kr more than the previous national transport plan, and we are well within a year of the new planning period. As a basis for the roll-out of the NTP in 2013, we have ordered two important awards, one that goes on the diet-use-action we use today, and one that goes on international experience when it comes to funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e493	Lars Myraune – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e496	This week we had hearings in the Transport and Communications Committee, and there were two repeaters: it was the middle of the day, and then it was an independent traffic control. I'm going to focus on the first thing about the question I have. We've also got an overview of how most accidents happen. Most road trips take place on the right. There's something happening on the left. They're often not so fatal because the stop is not so absolute. But what's fatal is when you get into the opposite lane and it becomes a collision. The human body can't take that load. A woman told quite openly last week about an experience she had about it. She survived, but the one she met didn't survive. Is the Council of State really satisfied with 22 km in the middle of the year that comes, knowing that people die unnecessarily?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e505	No, I'm not happy. I am constantly impatient after getting better results. But when it's middle parts, it's a fact that in Norway it's disproportionately expensive to build them because we built a narrower road 30 years ago than Sweden. We've built out the simplest sections, we're putting the middle parts on the new path that's now being built. We've previously seen ourselves as the target 25 km in 2011 and now we're looking to see if we can go from 22 km to 25 km. But let me repeat once again that there are many other road safety measures that are important. I myself have handed over a wide-ranging report with 152 actions that we are now following in turn and in order. This applies to both vehicles and roads, but it also applies to road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e513	Knut Arild Hareide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e516	I want to follow up on what the main question maker addresses about the 2012 Route Plan. What was said to those who traveled, the ones who experienced the catastrophe we had for the train in winter, was: Be patient, in 2012 the improvement will come. Yes, some of the government parties produced it as a train revolution. It almost sounded like a new moon landing to come in 2012. Then there has to be new information for the Transport and Communications Committee to present this new timetable not so many months ago. Then my question is, what time did this new information come? Shouldn't you be aware of this situation at a much earlier time, when one cannot time it? One thing is five months' postponement or one year's postponement. But as I experience the state councils today, there is no timing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e523	It is just the terrible winter we have behind us, which shows that there was a need for much more maintenance, much more renewal than the railway station was aware of itself and had communicated to us. Hence to the time: it was just before the summer we were told that there was a need for much more work to ensure stability when we put in place a new route. We have said that we will come back in 2012 with a further clarification of the improvements that are taking place, but let me remind you that there are significant improvements also in 2011. Maintenance and renewal work has been carried out due to the opening of new sections. In addition, the NSB has ordered 50 new trainsets that will be put into service at the turn of the year 2012–2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e530	Then we go to the next and last main question, from the representative Øyvind Halleraker. The state councils stay standing on their own, on their own suspicions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e535	Good reason to suspect, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e540	It can be confirmed, President. The co-operation government, of which the Right was part, had a very positive policy towards cities and launched, among other things. a reward scheme that rewarded cities with good ideas and measures to get people to take more buses and trams. The Left, Christian People's Party and Right would also have continued this arrangement in the climate agreement in the negotiations with the government. Now we feel that this targeted scheme is actually transforming the government into a penal system for cities that do not implement the unanimous way in which the government interprets the climate agreement. Let me quote from the climate agreement, where it says: ‘The priority shall be given to urban areas wishing to test road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures.’;» There is a local decision which measures are to be taken. So we're going to experience that Oslo, with 80 pst. the collective share of the waste traffic, to be eaten by 20 million. kr, and that Bergen, who has taken a huge lift and invested in the city track and will continue it, shall not be given priority. But in Trondheim, where the red-green rulers, they have presented a plan that hasn't given any results yet, but they're giving priority, despite Oslo having 26 kroner in tolls, Bergen has 15 kroner, and in Trondheim they have between 10 and 20 kroner. However, local authorities are being pressured to impose this policy. These are not objective criteria, but policies. So the question to the Council of State is: What other equivalent measures, to which the climate agreement refers, is what the Council of State sees as support?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e556	I just don't remember in the description that Halleraker here gives of the reward scheme. It is by no means a criminal order. On the contrary, one has identified three urban areas that have introduced this combination of reinforced collective provision and restrictive measures, and one has understood other areas year by year, upon application. That's how the government has promised 640 million. kr during the period. There was a doubling of the amount in 2009. In addition, 100 new million have been added to the 2011 budget. That means we have 431 million. NOK at disposal. Then Halleraker quotes from the climate agreement. With all due respect for Halleraker, he was with him. He was in Stortinget when the conciliation was concluded. He has been involved in many debates afterwards, which also indicates that the criteria for getting four-year agreements have been tightened up. This means that local choices are made: will both strengthen collective provision and streamline car use, for example. cow pricing, time-differentiated toll rates, parking policies, collective fields – there may be different ways to do so – or will there be only one-sided strengthening of collective provision? When it comes to the last case, you know that you don't get a four-year agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e565	I record that the Council of State does not answer my question. Let me then ask another question, on the basis of a large reference in the Official Journal of Bergen. They show how much such a pricing scheme will cost the mountains: 9 000 kroner net per year is estimated. But this is too small. Researchers say that both roads have to be paid in the rush to obtain a desired effect. That means that we're actually talking about a whole net monthly salary for a normal employee in order for the government to get its will. People who have bad advice are being pushed by the road. People who have to drive pay dearly. And paradoxically, those who have good advice get a better place on the road. Talk about traffic sharing policy! Where does the economic limit of this government actually go in relation to how much they are willing to burden road users?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e574	Let me start at the end where I believe Halleraker and I'm a few. It is that emissions in the transport sector need to decrease. It's simply also an important part of the climate agreement. To achieve this, different measures — including restrictive measures — need to be introduced where there are most cars on the road. Then there are many misunderstandings associated with the expression cow pricing. It has recently been a draft regulation on hearing, which we are reviewing. This means that a regulation will be applied at a later date. For example, researchers say: that pricing doesn't have an unsocial profile. It is claimed that in London and Stockholm there is a very good experience with cow pricing. From the government's side, we're basing our freedom of choice locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e579	Three follow-up questions have been asked, first from Tage Pettersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e582	The centre party is engaged in acting as a party on a team of local self-government. However, in the case of cow pricing, I see that the local perspective has been lost. I would like to link some comments to this regulation that has been sent to the hearing. The consultation note states that ‘the scheme may be introduced in urban areas where real problems relating to transport and the environment can be demonstrated’. The important thing about the hearing here is who can put in place a pricing system. In order to be able to overrun the local people elected, there is a poor harmony with the former values of the Central Party on the importance of just local people's rule. In addition, as we have heard, it is contrary to the agreement in the climate agreement that local decisions should be taken. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State, and I expect a clear answer: Is it in the intention of the hearing note that we can now set aside the call for local consensus and give the Minister of Transport the right to overrun local elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e594	It is within the meaning of the agreements concluded under the reward scheme that the decision to impose restrictive measures in relation to car use and, where appropriate, is local. It also means that, in connection with the regulation on cow pricing, the decision on cow pricing is made locally. Then in some urban areas it's unsavory. It's the county councils that are looking for reward funds in layers with their urban area. We've seen that the county selection in Hordaland has gone in for cow pricing in Bergen. That's what Bergen has done. Then Bergen City Council has said that half of the revenue will go to the state. It is not in line with the rule that has expired. The revenue shall be clarified in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e601	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e604	I am naturally concerned with negotiations on the reward scheme in Bergen. The state budget states that negotiations are under way. In response to questions about this, the Council of State has said that it is at a very preparatory stage. When are the negotiations coming? It is important to stress that the responsibility for public transport in the region lies with the county. The inhabitants, both in Bergen and in the region, have the impression that it is because of the political governance that is blue, that the government is not busy putting in place a system in Bergen that makes it easier to travel collectively. Is it not more important to put in place a system that makes it easier to travel collectively than to be involved in criminal measures? Is it not more important to start, is my question to the Council of State, and to negotiate arrangements that can make it easier to travel collectively than to be unilaterally engaged in criminal action?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e611	Let me first say that there are four-year contracts for reward funds in three urban areas. They have been made in accordance with the assumptions made by the Storting. So it's true in Trondheim, in Kristiansand and in the city of Busker, it's the county municipalities that have formally applied for it. I think political color is a little bit different in those areas. Then it is announced that negotiations will be held with Bergen and Tromsø. Blackvik is busy by Bergen. I have – as is right – the black representative Sortevik that what has been done so far in Bergen is an administrative, informal discussion with a view to negotiation. So negotiations lead to four-year agreements. Those who apply in one year's time, stick to an application deadline and are called to a meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e618	Knut Arild Hareide – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e621	I agree with the representative Halleraker when he says that the reward scheme we have for public transport has been hollowed out. Some of the things that have been involved in plunging out that system are, of course, of course. bicycles have become part of the reward scheme for public transport, even if bicycles may be what we consider to be at least a collective resource. But my challenge is, shouldn't it be a separate system for cycling and walking? When we know that there are 27 cities in Norway that have defined themselves as bicycle cities, but none of them are within the reward scheme for public transport and can thus receive support for cycling within it, does the Council not see that there is a need for a separate bicycle scheme, not least when we know that we have not met the NTP level for bicycles?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e628	I think Hareide's question illustrates that there is a need for more schemes than the reward scheme to get more people to walk and ride. This means better health, environment and accessibility. Then we can spend some time discussing whether or not a bicycle is a collective vehicle. What's important is that we make sure that, through good work processes, we have multiple paths. We are doing this well, and there are also new 52 km in the 2011 budget, and there is a plan in the national transport plan. So in the reward scheme, it's actually not insignificant if people use bicycles, because it means in many cases that they left the car standing. Verfor... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e637	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e649	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 2 and 3 from the representatives of Henning Warloe and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Health on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Question 11, from the representative Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister of Justice, will be taken up by the representative Jacob Nødseth. Question 12, from the representative of Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative, Mr Gunstveit Bojanowski, to the Minister of Labour, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Health who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the question is moved and answered in response to question 10, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 20, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade as the Council of State for the matter in question. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, the question is moved and answered in response to question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e672	'Communes Mosvik and Innery now plan to merge into a municipality. Because the income system of the municipalities today presents municipalities that want to be inappropriately small, this will result in reduced income. According to the Councillor in Inderøy, the new municipality will have reduced revenues of 14 million. kr per year. The nominal value of such loss of income is approximately. 145 million. kr. It seems to the Council of State that it is reasonable for the inhabitants of these two municipalities to have to pay 145 million. to the State to join forces?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e684	The objective of the income system is to smooth out local authorities’ resources in order to provide citizens with an equivalent level of service provision. When local authorities change their constitutions, for example: in the case of a merger, the income system must also facilitate the proper adaptation of the individual municipality. A municipality will need some time to adapt to the new framework conditions by merging them together. As a result, the new municipality will be given a split option to gradually transition to the new framework conditions. In the statement that Mosvik and Inderøy have received, you can read that the municipalities will pay $880,000 in relation to the frame rate every year on the merger. At the same time, the new municipality will lose a base grant and a small municipality grant, which, according to the distribution, amounts to 14.9 million. kr every year. This is the background to the query that the municipality will have a reduced income of 14 million. kr every year. This will be compensated for by a divisional allowance for the new municipality, which it will receive from the time of aggregation. It will consist of a basic addition and a small municipal addition, which Moscow gets today. The new municipality will be fully submerged for ten years, and then with a slowdown over five years. The breakdown style gives municipalities plenty of time to adapt to changing settings. The objective of the income system should not be to lure municipalities into a merger, but to give them good conditions to deal with the challenges and to change the framework conditions that result from a merger. When now the government has also increased the compensation for one-off costs to 100 pst. of the costs necessary for the establishment of the new municipality, we also believe that we have a system which gives good conditions to municipalities that merge. In connection with the management of the Municipal Proposition for 2011, Prop. 124 S for 2009-2010, the majority of the municipal and management committee had a comment asking the government to consider extending the period of disaggregation, so that municipalities can maintain the divisional rate for 15 years before the degression over five years begins. I would like to make an assessment of the proposal in the municipality proposal for 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e697	I am fully aware that the subdivision add-on shall cover the loss of both the basic and small municipal supplement for 10 years, and that this will then be escalated over five years. It is also included in the calculation when the present value of such a loss of income is involved. It is the adviser in India who has calculated that the net loss of income after the transitional period will be 145 million. kr. This means that the population has to rely on reduced income, which is a present value of 145 million. kr if the municipalities merge. So if they go into a joint municipal project, an intermunicipal cooperation, they don't get such a loss of income. So my question is still the same: does the Minister of State think it is reasonable for the inhabitants of these two municipalities to have to pay 145 million. kr to the state to get permission to join together?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e704	If you look at the background for e.g. In a small municipality, it's a little less cost-sharing, it's less administrative cost-sharing, and it's one of the crown arguments that the municipal merger champions have, i.e., if one merges municipalities, a saving of x billions. There's a lot of variation in the number of billions a thinker can save, but at least there's a lot of money going on. Then one cannot say at the same time that when one joins up and gets a larger municipality and more to distribute the costs to, one should compensate for it fully in the future. However, it is important that municipalities have a rather long and good period of time to adapt to the changes that one receives in the structure and economic basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e709	It is quite right that small municipalities are, of course, much more expensive to operate than large municipalities. Numbers also show that the 100 smallest municipalities have more than three times as much administrative costs per capita as the 100 largest municipalities. Today, therefore, the population of the large municipalities subsidizes the small municipalities. Everyone doesn't think that's right. So now there's a case with two small municipalities that want to merge. After the merger, this new municipality will have between 6000 and 7,000 inhabitants, but in order to be allowed, one has to pay so much that it is not appropriate. Then it's the opposite of volunteering, it's coercion – a coercion of small municipalities to be small. Doesn't the Council see that this is how it works, that one forces small municipalities to be small?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e716	I think that the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, is very emphatically turning this on his head in relation to the argument that his own party is making when a city conspiracy wants. One wants 100 municipalities in this country, there have been expressed very many places by prominent people in the Progress Party. One of the reasons they think it's so much more effective. Then we're going to discuss the effectiveness of it, we're going to work a lot on it in the future, both in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and in other forums. It doesn't necessarily make everything as effective if it gets as big as possible. There are economies of scale and there are small operating advantages, and both are important to consider when looking at what is an appropriate structure for municipalities in the future. I'm going to consider extending the divisional dimension, as I promised Stortinget, and coming back to Stortinget with it. Otherwise, I think it's an opportunity to change the boundaries where a local wants it and take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e745	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e752	‘It has recently been decided to set up toll companies for two new tunnels between Seljestad and Haukelifjell on E134. The company shall finance the regulatory costs. This is a route that is very important for freight and passenger traffic between the West and the East. The objective is to complete regulated plans by the end of 2011. During these days, the Ministry assesses KS1 for the project. Can the Council of State confirm that the Ministry will finalise this before Christmas, so that the planning work can begin with a view to starting construction in 2014?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e759	In St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009 National Transport Plan 2010–2019, priority has been considered as a matter of priority for State resources to start construction of new tunnels on E134 over Haukelifjell and beyond Röldal in the last six years. Prioritisation depends on the support of a partial toll financing scheme. This priority has been followed up in the State Road Agency’s 2010–2013 action programme. A municipal sub-plan for E134 has been developed between Vågslid in Telemark and Grostøl in Hordaland. The plan was approved in the autumn of 2008. Work has been carried out in parallel on a municipal sub-plan and draft currency. The draft evaluation has now been the subject of external quality assurance. Saka will be handled by the government as soon as possible. The government will return to the development of E134 in the national transport plan for the period 2014-2023. In the run-up to 2013 NTP will be presented early, and it will also be necessary to continue working on arrangements for toll financing for the expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e770	That was useful information, but that was probably almost what you knew in advance. My question was whether the Council of State could make progress on the part of the Ministry and hence the government, so that local authorities are followed up on their ambitions. As the Council of State correctly points out, all preliminary work has been done. A local toll company has now also been set up that has been so shy that they pay in advance, so that the department itself does not pay for the regulatory plans. It's being pre-shooted with county guarantees from Hordaland County. Everyone is now waiting in the department before you can start the regulatory work. The potential study of the state road system has shown that it is very possible to carry out the project. It has already been mentioned in the national transport plan. What the region is really waiting for is that the toll company can start its work to achieve the goal. Then the question is again: is the Council of State able to get it completed before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e777	My answer must be that the matter will be dealt with by the government as quickly as possible. In that I think there is a clear wording that this is a high-priority road. There is also a road that I myself know very well, it is a road – which the questioner is in – that has a heavy impact of heavy traffic, and it is a road where it is urgent to repair. I still thought that it would be premature to schedule this until before Christmas. When I say quick advice, that means that it's a matter of high priority. Then the moment comes as a happy surprise for the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e782	When Christmastime comes, I'm always susceptible to happy surprises. If the state councils are able to meet both the expectations of Hordalands, Rogalands, Telemarks and Buskerud, the state councils will be high on track there too, at a time when the central party councils need to be high on track. E134 is the most important trajectory between the East and the West. There's an extreme amount of trailer traffic there, a lot of commercial traffic, but also a lot of passenger traffic, maybe especially between Telemark and Hordaland. This is the question, also in view of the toll model, which the Vegvesenet and the Ministry also have — there are three models, either post-clearance, pre-collection or en route: can the Minister of Transport, in view of the large regional involvement of local public authorities and industry, consider to be in favour of any application for pre-registration?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e791	Let me first thank you for your concern. Let me then just say that in KS1 there are two of the concepts from the concept selection that are qualitative. The one debt concept F, Haukligrend–Nesvatn, the other is concept G, E134 Grostøl–Vågslid. The conclusions of the external quality assurance, KVU, clearly point in the same direction – that it is the concept choice F that must be rejected and that one goes further with concept G. I will now take a position on what the representative rightly points out. I'll mark his question. I have to be allowed to come back to it when this matter is more clear, but I am willing to give her quick treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e802	‘National Transport Plan 2010–2019 states that the transport system should be universally designed. In 2012, it is planned to phase in NSB’s new train Flirt, which is designed for universal transport. However, in order to gain step-free access to the new trains, platforms need to be upgraded. 44 stations shall serve the new trains and none of these are proposed to be upgraded in 2011. How does the Council of State consider that the new trains should contribute to increased accessibility for people with reduced mobility from 2012 onwards?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e809	The government is basing its work on the principle of social equality and universal design. In St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009 National Transport Plan 2010–2019 is the main objective of universal design of the transport system. The railway system has identified the need for action at stations that meet the different levels of accessibility or universal design. This work will serve as a basis for prioritising resource use. During 2010, the railway works shall carry out a registration which gives an overview of the state of the individual station and the groups of measures necessary for its implementation. In 2011, the Railway Agency plans to make four stations available and three stations universally designed. In 2011 and 2012, some platforms will be extended to conform to the length of the train. When you do a conversion first, the platforms will also be raised to a height of 76 cm. I have entrusted the Railway Agency with the task of developing a long-term railway development plan to achieve universal design. The universal design principle shall be used in the planning, design and construction of a new station infrastructure. For existing stoppages, upgrading to everyone's availability will be done for the first time. This means that at least one platform access path is prepared for everyone. Gradually, stations will be upgraded to full universal design. Intersection stations in the triangle Lillehammer-Skien-Halden have been given the highest priority. Then there are other stations in the triangle with annual traffic over 1000 passengers. When NSB gets the new train sets, it is arranged for step-free input where platforms are 76 cm high. The new train sets will provide much better access to the train due to the fact that a large part of the individual train set is built with low floors. According to the original plan, the new train sets should mainly be operated in the central east area, where the largest stations are already largely equipped with 70 cm high platforms providing good accessibility. The new trains must also be provided with a wheelchair lift that allows them to be used in lower platform stations and holding places. The last is because there is something uncertain about where to put these trains. When the new trains are put into service, it is possible to roll straight into the train at stations that are upgraded with standard height on platforms by means of an upper step that closes the gap between the train and the platform. This step will also make it easier for all passengers to get off and on the train.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e824	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The special thing in this case is that the user involvement in the acquisition of NSB’s new trains has been very good. The organisations concerned have been involved in influencing the organisation of trains. However, if the same organisation of stations does not take place at a relatively high pace, the investment in universally designed train equipment will seem to be a failure, at least in initial phases. According to the NTP 2010–2013 Action Programme, there is just one intercity section and two local sections to be operated by the new trains. As I said in my main question, none of the 44 platforms today have the right height. Three of them will get it in 2011, based on the response of the Council of State. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if she is willing to give priority to moving funds into the budget, so that it can be possible to achieve the objectives of the NTP in terms of universal design more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e835	Let me first say that there is a very important question the representative here raises, and also an important reminder of where to do it is to facilitate access to the stations for everyone. The organizations here have been heavy inside. I own a contact forum for universal design, where I have direct contact with very committed and competent representatives of the organisations. In addition, the Ministry is present at the meeting of the Train Group, which the Railway Agency is renting, where organisations can discuss various practical problems in the railway sector. The budget for 2011 is what it does. Then we get a review from the Railway Agency during 2010. That means we have to look at how we handle this in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e844	Thanks for the answer. The 2011 budget proposes a total of 250 million. to stations and hubs. As I read the budget, the majority of these funds will be linked to Holmlia and Voss stations, as well as the extension of some platforms – on which the Council of State has been involved – and actions related to customer information. If you want to succeed in the important work on universal design of the transport system, it is important to set up coherent travel chains. If you can't quickly risk, to give a picture of it, you get on the train, but actually don't know if you get off the train at the other end. That's why I'm finally going to challenge the Council of State on how much of the 250 million. kr within the 2011 budget, which is to be used just for universal use.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e855	It is right, as the representative here says, that in this area of the programme there are both investments and actions involving customer information, which also cover universal design and accessibility for all. I don't have the exact distribution here, I'll send it to the representative Pettersen. Of course, in addition to the organisations, we also need both a change of posture within the mind of the individual and a local commitment. That's 42 million. kr in so-called ‘BRA’ media, which also leads to more universal design. Here, for the last year, the result has been – it's a local feature – that there's been some money going on again. I also see an offensive when it comes to these funds, because we have to make sure to facilitate more universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e866	‘In the National Audit Office’s report for the financial year 2009, the Ministry of Transport, SD, receives criticism for the follow-up of toll companies. This criticism was also raised by SD for the financial year 2008. In the years B.C.E. 2005 to 2005 In 2009, by means of tolls paid, the drivers also covered collection costs of €2.5 billion. kr and interest expense of SEK 2,5 billion. kr. I assume that SD also believes it is important that tolls collected are used properly and efficiently. What will the Council of State do to improve the follow-up and supervision of toll companies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e873	I fully agree with Mr Sortevik that the required tolls should be used in a defence and effective way. In my answer on 2 July 2010 to question No. In 1522 from the representative Arne Sortevik, I showed that the State Road Administration and the National Audit Office have the right of access to the budget and accounting of the toll companies, and that they can demand information they find necessary to carry out the checks, see. toll agreements. The state Road Service carries out an annual follow-up to the fact that the company does not have an unhindered use of tolls and that they follow the principles set out in the toll agreement and other frameworks and guidelines underlying the collection of tolls. The result of this check is sent to the Ministry of Transport. In addition, the road authority of the State carries out checks on attachments to the accounts of selected individual companies at regular intervals. Until today, most toll projects have been on the national road network. As a result of the administrative reform, toll financing for roadside projects will be far more extensive than today. In addition, there are packages containing both state, county and municipal roads. An indication of these procedures was given in my answer to question No. 1707 20 September 2010 – also this from the representative Arne Sortevik. Here it was also shown that the Ministry of Transport in line with Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010 will undertake a comprehensive assessment of the arrangements for managing and following-up toll projects on both the national road network, the county road network and on behalf of the municipality, including reporting procedures to the Stortinget. I will come back to Stortinget with this matter when this work is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e882	Thanks for the answer. It is correct that I have asked before – and received an answer before – about this. But what is new is that 19 October came the Riksrevisions report on the financial year 2009. And what's further new is that the Riksrevision again criticises the follow-up of toll companies by the Ministry of Transport. It is true, of course, as the Council of State says, that toll companies are supervised by the State Road Administration, so that tolls paid are used according to purpose and rules. But they have no penalty options if they find faulty use. Will the Council of State ensure the establishment of sanctioning possibilities if there is an incorrect use and inefficient use of tolls? Will the State Council also ensure that the Stortinge provides a comprehensive overview of national use of tolls in the context of the administrative reform, as well as an overall review?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e891	It is right, as Mr Sortevik says, that the Riksrevision's report for 2009 was presented on 19 October. So, in the Ministry of Transport, we are going to make an overall assessment of the arrangements we have today for the management and follow-up of the toll project, and that applies to both national, county and municipal networks, including procedures for reporting to the Storting in the case that is announced in the 2009-2010 budget. Then I must be allowed to come back to Stortinget with the matter when this work is completed. This means that if the representative of Sortevik does not find answers to all his questions, he may take them up in connection with the handling of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e896	Thank you again for your answer. He'll do that. This is not least about having respect for the huge contribution that comes from the drivers, who are forced on the drivers. It's about contributions through the purchase of the road for hire in the rich oil nation of Norway – a paradoxical situation, but I'll leave it here. The point is – as I had in my main question – that extras of 5 billion are paid. NOK, and it's about having respect for the fact that that money is being used in a good way. I'm asking that the Council of State in its own head make a picture: if we're counting on an average cost of 25 kroner, then there's going to be an incredible amount of passages to cover a bill of 5 billion. kr. So the same passages – an unfathomable number of large passages – are going on, without getting one meter more way, without getting one meter more tunnel and without getting one meter more bridge. It shall cover only costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e903	Then I must remind the representative, Mr Sortevik, that all the toll projects are locally initiated. They're either incited to get a project in a queue of projects, or they're incited to be realized at all. It is true that if a loan is made in order to arrive in a queue, it entails costs. It also costs to collect these funds, but all of this is initially initiated by local decisions. So I've already said that I'm busy using collected tolls in a defensive and effective way. That's why we have a complete review of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e912	‘On 16 June 2009, the Stortinget decided to hold a consensus conference on the proposal to provide heroin-assisted treatment in Norway. Will the government follow up on the decision and implement a consensus conference before the government prepares a major report on drug policy in 2011?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e919	The government has signaled that a wide-ranging debate on drug policy is needed. Heroinassist treatment is a demanding issue that raises many ethical, legal and political dilemmas and balances. The government appointed on 6 March 2009 a sample — led by Thorvald Stoltenberg — mandated to propose how the most deprived drug addicts can get better help and assess whether heroin-assisted treatment can be part of the offer. A small majority of the Stoltenberg Committee is in favour of a temporary pilot project involving heroin treatment in the LAR. The government has not concluded on the issue of heroin-assisted drug treatment and sees the need for a broad dialogue with stakeholders on the issue. The report of the Stoltenberg Committee has been sent to the ordinary hearing and the Ministry will follow up the Storting decision during the hearing. I would like to invite you to the consultation conference and, in dialogue with the Health and Care Committee and the parties on the Stortinget, I would also like to see how we can organise a consensus conference on this which is initially a demanding topic, but I would like to have a dialogue with the Health and Care Committee in order to get all the aspects and views on this issue highlighted. Regardless of the conclusions of this issue, there is a need to step up efforts towards those with drug problems, including drug-free treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e930	I thank you for a very positive answer. I also thank you for the invitation to a cooperation to set up a consensus conference. I believe that health services have good experience in implementing consensus conferences on professional and ethical issues. For example, in the case of the use of ultrasound, very good experience has been gained in the implementation of the Health Directorate Consensus Conference. I believe that similar models should also be used in this area. It will provide both the government and the Stortinget with a very good professional starting point for a very demanding discussion. I really don't have any more follow-up questions and would like to thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e935	I just want to stress that we will follow up. We want to have a good dialogue with the Health and Care Committee, because we see that it is important that we have a wide-ranging debate and that we get all the aspects of this matter highlighted. Then it is also natural for such a demanding topic, as was also said by the head of the Health and Welfare Committee, that we want a good dialogue so that all views can be expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e944	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘In the consultation note to the new law on municipal health and care services, the government does not propose the individual right-holding of the system of user-led personal assistance, BPA. In 2005, the Bondevik II government proposed that all those in need of assistance be entitled to the assistance of a personal assistant. Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad joined this in the autumn of 2006, and in the 2009 election campaign, the government parties were in favour of a right-to-holding of the BPA scheme. What is the reason why the government is not now proposing the right-holdership?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e953	I would like to point out that the Prime Minister, in his spontaneous question on 20 October, also replied to this matter. Proposals for municipal health and care laws, which are now being consulted, propose to continue an obligation for the municipality to offer BPA. It is true that in this consultation proposal we do not propose an individual right-holding. We believe that BPA is a good system, which allows more independent life, gives users more flexibility and more predictability. There has been a growth in use of the BPA system of 38 pst. in the last five years. This growth has been wanted, and we will continue to facilitate the use of the scheme by municipalities. Over the State budget, an incentive grant has been granted to municipalities since 1994 for the implementation of the BPA scheme. Studies show that most municipalities consider the scheme to be good and that the scheme can contribute to higher professional participation, participation in education and lower sick leave for relatives. The Ministry followed up its 2005 decision and sent out a proposal for improvements to the BPA scheme at the hearing in 2007. The hearing raised several fundamental and practical issues relating to labour law, the economy, the freedom of organisation of municipalities and issues related to being an employer, supervisor and assistant in the BPA. The size of the budget for 2009 and 2010 was notified that the case would be considered in the context of the work on the new law for municipal health and care services. In the proposal for a new law, which is now being consulted, we assume that the municipalities must make an assessment of how best to organise their resources so that they can provide necessary and sound services to all those in need. The challenge is to find a balance between individual needs and a good distribution of municipal resources. This shall be done within the framework of community obligations and the right of the user to the necessary and sound health and care services. The BPA scheme is resource-intensive because the scheme assumes that staffing is linked to one person. The sharing of staff between several users is difficult and a minimum attendance time is required on a case-by-case basis for the assistant’s working conditions. In view of the issues raised in the 2007 consultation and the need for sustainable, long-term development, the government in the proposal for a new law would not be advised to legislate an individual right to BPA, but the municipality's obligation to offer BPA is continued. I would like to stress that there has been a significant growth in this offer. More people get BPA, which means that more people can also work in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e972	In the draft consultation, the government said, among other things: that the retention of this right will require many care workers. There was also one of the prime minister's reasons in the spontaneous questioning session, namely that the right-wing celebration will affect other groups. The recent ECON report, Annex 3, shows that there are no health and care workers who are primarily assistants; they are students and unskilled. What I'm asking is: will not the increased use and retention of BPA simply relieve health and care workers of the tasks for which they are trained, so that they can go to the other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e979	I really want to point out what I said in my post, that there has been an increase in the use of BPA. I very much agree with the questioner that it is a very good arrangement for very many. However, I would like to stress that it is the municipalities that are primarily on their total resources and their different opportunities to offer different offers. I am concerned that those who rely on assistance will get it, but I believe that that dialogue must primarily take place with the municipality, and then you have to agree on what is best for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e984	The council didn't really answer the question. It will not affect carers; it is other groups that provide this service primarily. So to the municipalities and that the municipalities know best. The Prime Minister also said in the spontaneous Question Time that ‘it is the municipality that has to make an assessment of what kind of offers are best’. I'm reacting a little to such a formulation. The Council of State is also concerned that the municipalities must see things in a complete way, but what about user involvement? What about these users, who have a BPA scheme and who want it to continue – and new users who come to it – they will not be allowed to choose? It's about being able to do the job. It has to do with being able to control one instead of perhaps having to accept ten different weeks after the week. There's a lot of the problem today if you don't get one, but more user-driven personal assistants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e993	I guess it's – and as I know it, it's – a dialogue with the municipality. I believe that all municipalities are interested in giving the offer that they see is best for the individual user. It's actually like there's been a growth in this. I'm going to assume that it's also going to be in the future. It is important that municipalities offer this. That is why we have a separate paragraph in the new proposal for municipal health and care law that it is a municipal obligation to provide this service. That's to the extent that a special provision is made in relation to a lot of other things because it's set up as a law based on functions that local authorities have to offer and not necessarily professionals. In the same way, we have this provision because we believe it is important for municipalities to be able to offer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1007	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘Together on the need, SoN, is a voluntary organisation providing a broad and well-defined low-threshold service to drug addicts. State aid has made it possible to develop the offer and to provide more and more effective offers. In the course of the budgetary procedure, an overall health and care committee has recommended that work be carried out and requested that the application be assessed in particular. However, SoN is not given the disclaimer on the application and the anchor is rejected. Will the State Council follow up the Committee's comments and review the application so that more people can get help from SoN?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1016	In the drugs field, the voluntary and non-profit sector has a central role, and this is the background to the substantial strengthening of the budget line for voluntary drug use in recent years. This appropriation is intended to cover care, follow-up and rehabilitation of voluntary enterprises and private foundations, as well as self-help and user organisations. Historically, the non-profit sector has accounted for the bulk of care services and, in many cases, has contributed to the development of new services. The government has a strong focus on the need for the most needy drug addicts. The aim is to contribute to more accessible services, better health and increased inclusion, and therefore, in line with the Government Declaration, we will use the next few years to systematically build capacity and competences in prevention, awareness-raising, treatment, rehabilitation and post-care. Services shall be of good quality and shall be characterised by good cooperation between levels and between public and private bodies. It is the Directorate for Health that administers the grant scheme on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. There is a legislative framework for the subsidy scheme approved by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The ‘Summary of Distress’ project received 1.1 million in 2010. NOK in grants, an increase of NOK 100000 from 2009. The total amount available for the 2010 item, i.e. the entire budget item, is 158 million. NOK and applications equivalent to 253 million have been received. kr. Grants are granted for about 90 activities. This shows that priority needs to be given to the objectives of the scheme. The escalation plan for the drug field states that the partnership between public and private enterprises should be strengthened. The voluntary work grant scheme is evaluated by the Rokkan Centre. This evaluation will provide us with better evidence of the efforts, types of services and other challenges and will be part of the basis for developing this partnership. I have also been informed by the Health Directorate that the application for the ‘Sammen on distress’ has been specifically assessed in line with the suspension and the overall support for the action. 763 item 71, i.e. the item for voluntary drug work, is increased proportionately from last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1031	I would like to thank you for your reply, which was comprehensive and far-reaching in response to the whole issue and the whole chapter. I am very happy that the ‘Meeting about the distress’ has come in as a separate post. The support given by political teams from the very beginning, and also from the current regime, has been important for this project. It's a good project with a lot of offers, a very wide range of offers, and it's constantly developing. So it's right, as the Council points out, that the grant has increased by $100,000. But what the government doesn't mention is that the sum from which it increased has been at rest for several years, so that the 100 000 kroner barely cover the increased costs. Does the Council not see that it is difficult for an organisation receiving state support to receive state praise, to be told to continue to develop its offer, not to be given the means to expand its offer, just barely enough to increase its costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1040	I would like to make it clear to you at least that for the current year, we have had a significant increase in the project «Sammen om Nöcken». I would also like to stress that it is a very good job done by a lot of people in the voluntary and non-profit sector, and it deserves support. But there are many who are applying, and to which I also referred, the wishes are far more than what we have in the budget line. That is why we have to make a priority. However, there should be no doubt that that priority has been taken, and that is why the ‘Agreement on Distress’ has also received more money in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1045	I just want to make it clear once again that the increase they've been given hardly reflects the growth in wages and prices over the years that the amount has remained silent. And it's worth noting that the only organisation that a joint committee promises – they're asking for the application to be evaluated specifically – is just this organisation. Then I would think that even in an urgent competition for funds, it is important to look specifically at this organisation. When it only gets an increase corresponding to the price increase, I can't understand that the committee's intention has been followed up. They have many different offers and a wide range of offers, and will now launch their own offer to bring home young people in the phase where they are about to enter a heavy drug environment — a new project that will save society too much money. I'd like to ask the Council once more to take an extra look at this and have a discussion with the Department about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1052	I just want to point out what I actually said in my post. There are many applicants for grants. We need to make a priority, and the ‘Sammen om Nöcken’ project received 1.1 million in 2010. NOK in grants. This was an increase of NOK 100 000 from 2009, and when I then expect, there is an increase in both price increases and wage increases compared to the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1062	This question, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Health on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1065	‘More large industrial projects can be established in Norway, but the challenges surrounding the power situation and CO2 emissions are a serious obstacle. This applies, inter alia, to: The Ironman project in More and Romesdal, Hydros K6 on Karmøy and Alcoa's wish for aluminiumworks in Finnmark. The requirement for immediate CO2 cleaning of new gas power plants is a serious obstacle to such establishments. Norway alone is to have such purification requirements. Will the government harmonise CO2 legislation so that industry is established where it provides the best environmental benefit in a global perspective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1081	The revised ETS Directive will be implemented in Norway from 2013 and we are now negotiating with the EU Commission on adaptations. The Government, as it is known, has worked to base the EU ETS on the fact that no allowances are allocated free of charge after 2012. However, we have also said that the allocation rules in Norway should be assessed in the light of EU policies in this area. The revised Directive lays down, inter alia: up to a level playing field for the allocation of climate allowances to enterprises in all EU countries. The government is committed to treating land-based establishments as similar to similar establishments in Europe. Under certain conditions, the government will seek to continue the current system in which offshore petroleum activity is not allocated free allowances. There are wide variations in the regulation of CO2 emissions from countries to countries. There are also such differences within the EU. The quota system is an important part of the regulation of CO2 emissions from industry in the EU and Norway. Other instruments are also used at the same time. In the autumn of 2011, the government will present a climate communication with a review of climate policy and the use of instruments. The climate threat is the biggest challenge we face, and it is essential that the agreed climate objectives are met. At the same time, the government is committed to maintaining the environmental and energy efficient industry in Norway and Europe in parallel with the development of climate policy. Both climate objectives and competition considerations will therefore be important when deciding on future legislation. From a long-term perspective, the government believes that Norway will strengthen its competitiveness by implementing an ambitious climate policy. Therefore, in line with the climate agreement, the government believes that it is realistic to have a target of reducing national emissions by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in relation to the reference track as presented in the 2007 national budget, when forest is included. To achieve the national objectives, measures and instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions need to be implemented in a number of societal areas. The establishment of several emission-intensive gas power plants will obviously make it more difficult to achieve national emission reduction targets in Norway. There is no need to change the government's policy that all new gas power concessions should be based on clean-up and CO2 deposition at start-up. Here, it must be added that both in Norway and in other countries, among others. in the EU, priority is being given to the deployment and further development of CO2 capture and storage technologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1107	The work of the government in relation to the ETS Directive has gone in the right direction at my discretion. There has been a shift from a position promoted by the SV and the Workers' Party in the previous period that Norway should not allocate free allowances to anyone, now to say that one should be at EU level. That's good, because it guarantees competitiveness. But with regard to what the Council of State finally had, that is, the industry's ability to get power from gas power plants, we see that the government has introduced technology requirements that no other country has, by requiring clean-up at the start of new power generation from gas power. This is a problem in connection with the industrial power station Møres gas power station in Elnesvågen. This is a problem in connection with the Ironman project in the same region. There is a problem in the construction of gas power plants at an aluminium plant in Finnmark. This means that those projects are moving out of the country instead of being realised in Norway. It does not harmonize with the government’s goal of being able to provide energy- and environmental-friendly industries in Norway. Will the government look at its position in the light of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1114	As I said in the answer, the government is concerned about both having an environmentally friendly and energy efficient industry in Norway and being able to harmonise the requirements for land-based enterprises with the EU. In the case of new gas power plants, the government has very ambitious targets for the cleaning and landfilling of CO2. It's a great job to get this done, both to get it started and to succeed. This is also being worked on in countries other than Norway. So there doesn't seem to be any reason to change this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1124	Partisans of the Council of State of More and Rome, i.e. those who are physically affected by this, say in a statement in today's Evening Post: «Gass power plant splits Ap. Local peaks require the party to change course and build power plants now.’» They see that the policy of the government in this area leads to a failure to realise many good industrial projects, and a failure to implement important energy projects that ensure the supply of power. The goals set by the government are not realistic. It has been realized by the government itself when a postponer of full-scale cleaning at Mongstad until 2018. How should it be possible to clean industrial power plants Møre with a technology that the government itself says will not be available in at least eight years in advance? Does not the government see that they are setting technology requirements that are not feasible? One thing – and everyone at Stortinget supports it – is to develop technology. Another thing is to demand the implementation of the technology today, which one says is at least eight years ahead. Will the government not take into account the realities and see that a based policy of 2006 has been broken down?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1136	It is true that when we, as a country, make international agreements and set ambitious goals as there is a great deal of political consensus, we must work to achieve those objectives. Instead, we need to intensify development and put new technologies into practice. I see that it is demanding, but when, for example, it does. as regards the test facility in Mongstad, it is under construction and full development, and although it might be tempting for energy to be isolated, I believe that the policy for which we have adopted both national decisions and international agreements must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1141	Then the Council of State will be allowed to become Minister of Health and Care again. We're now going to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1150	This question, from the representative of Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski, will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1153	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The Law on Health Services in Municipalities states that the municipalities of the country shall provide the necessary healthcare for all residents or temporary residents of the municipality. Short stays such as vacations or study stays present practical challenges and, in part, significant, and not least, unpredictable financial consequences for the municipality of residence. Will the Council of State look at the scheme and assess legislative changes that will increase the predictability of municipalities?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1162	Under the Local Health Services Act, all municipalities of the country shall provide the necessary health care for ‘all residents or temporary residents of the municipality’. It is clear from the provision that everyone has the right to the necessary health care in the municipality in which he or she ‘dwells or temporarily resides’. This implies that the individual municipality has an obligation not only to provide health care to its own inhabitants but also to commuters, holiday guests and temporary residents of schools and students. Under the Social Services Act, social services are to provide services to all residents of the municipality. Derogations from the principle of residence have been made for those who live in institutions or housing with the care services of the lucky day. For these, the services shall be provided by the social service of the municipality of residence prior to its entry into the institution. This implies that today's municipal health and social services law follows essentially the same principle of residence. Derogations apply to residence in an institution where the social service places responsibility on the municipality of residence prior to entry into the institution. In circular I-43/99, the Ministry has taken the view that, when it is highly needy to move to another municipality, it may seek in advance from the local authority for care and care services it will need. The municipality of relocation is obliged to examine the application and take decisions. The application may not be rejected on the grounds that he does not live or reside in the municipality at the time of application. This circular shall ensure that there shall also be a genuine possibility of moving. The proposal for a new municipal health and care law, which is now being consulted, will replace today's municipal health and social services law. In the consultation note, the Ministry describes various alternative solutions to the principle of residence, i.e.: that it is the municipality where the patient or user lives or temporarily resides, which is responsible for providing healthcare and covering the costs. Alternative solutions described are the establishment of a residence principle, or alternatively a combined residence and residence principle, or the provision of a guest patient scheme. However, following an overall assessment, the Ministry finds that the consideration of an easily accessible health and care service in the municipalities suggests that the principle of residence should continue as a general rule and that this principle is also used in the bill for new municipal health and care laws. However, the Ministry sees the need for more flexible and nuanced legislation adapted to the funding and grant schemes in place at all times. Municipal health and care services have been significantly developed in recent years and this means that the principle of residence has a wider impact on municipalities. In addition, the overall development of wealth has resulted in increased mobility of the population. The Ministry acknowledges that these developments can have significant economic consequences for municipalities with a high level of tourism activity. For this reason, it is proposed in the consultation note that the current rules on the responsibility of the municipality for all residents or temporary residents in the municipality be continued, but that a mandate be given to the ministry to provide detailed rules on the distribution of expenditure between municipalities when a patient or user receives services from a municipality other than the municipality in which he is permanently resident or has a permanent residence. On the basis of the consultation input we receive in this round, and subject to the adoption by the Storting of new municipal health and care laws, the Ministry will initiate work on establishing a regulation regulating the distribution of expenditure between municipalities. In this work, it will be natural and appropriate to address more thoroughly the issues raised by the representative Gunstveit Bojanowski in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1179	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I will hurry to admit that this is enough an easier question to ask than to answer. And as the Council of State referred to in the consultation note, many angles of the issue have been highlighted. I feel that much of the angle in the consultation note goes to tourist municipalities, and that is of course part of the problem. But how does the system work for the tourist communities today? There has been a great deal of focus on the cabin municipalities, and they experience that the cabin guests want to take their mother-in-law with them more and more – what we call it. It is clear that with long and beautiful southern summers, which I know well, it is obvious that it will be demanding for many of the municipalities in my area. An even more difficult situation may exist for younger users of healthcare. Universities and higher education institutions with upper secondary education are very often located in small municipalities. When they receive a student who, for various reasons, needs municipal health care, it is the school's host municipality that needs to provide and finance the necessary health care. If the school is traveling, it is in principle the municipality that is being visited, which has to pay for the same thing. I therefore ask the Council of State: does it feel like a good arrangement with the municipalities and with the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1190	I think it's going to be a good idea to take your mother-in-law on vacation when you want to. And as I said, it's also stated that it's the same principle that where you live or stay temporarily, you need health care. At the same time, I would like to refer to the proposal for a new municipal health and care law, which has just been put to the hearing, and also to what I have said, that we should look at this and draw up a regulation when the bill is finally presented and adopted in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1197	Thank you again to the Council of State. There is no doubt that we agree that we want to maintain the flexibility of the scheme, both for holiday tourists and for others. But I'm not so sure that I agree with the Council of State that it feels worthy, for example. for a student who is moving across a municipal border for a period of time in order to live at the boarding school and then has to be assessed in the municipality of destination and who quickly becomes a throwball in a system in which we do not like to experience being a throwball in. I therefore look forward to what is said in the consultation note: ‘The Ministry agrees that there may be a need for more flexible and nuanced legislation adapted to the existing funding and grant schemes at all times.’ An authorisation shall be given in the consultation note for the Ministry to provide detailed rules. Will the Council of State say something about what leads to that regulatory work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1209	I would just like to stress that the issues raised by the representative, Gunstveit Bojanowski, are to be included and assessed. This whole problem complex will be assessed in the regulations. I am also very concerned that it should not be felt that you do not have the opportunity to move without sending applications in advance, as they say. It should be possible for everyone to move, and especially for students and young people. It shall be possible to take mother-in-law on holiday. All of these issues are to be discussed further, so that there is also predictability for the municipalities, economically speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1216	Then we go to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1223	This question, from Bjørn Lødemel to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Jacob Nødseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1226	The question goes to the Minister of Justice: ‘What makes the government do in order to meet the legitimate local expectations of the West that a permanent rescue helicopter base is established in Florø, and not just an exposure such as today, since this is a very important measure to ensure optimal preparedness along the West Coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1233	I'm very happy to have this question, because there's something the government has been concerned about, it's the preparedness along the coast and the development of the rescue helicopters. As we have seen, we have, in my opinion, had a glittering development, and we have placed great emphasis on the presence of those bases that had not attended, and not only by the presence, but also by the 24-hour standby with a doctor. That's what the government has brought in. There have been clear leads all the way back since 2001, and also earlier, in this respect. There were clear leads towards wanting one more base in the West. That's the background for us establishing the base in Florø. That it now acts as a de-exposure, in my opinion, has nothing to say about the preparedness that I believe should be the very best. The preparedness is well maintained, regardless of whether it is a de exposure or a fixed base. So there are people present, and they are on duty 24 hours a day. It's also a 24-hour game on duty. In Florø, very good facilities have also been attached to both hangar and bystander – i.e. for the staff – which make the Florø base exceptionally good for standby. I have difficulty seeing the reason for the question. The exposure fully maintains the preparedness. I also have to add that it had to be a red-green government to make this promise that has been a expectation in Rescue Norway for many, many years. Also in the time when the Right sat with power in the government, before the red-green, one had the opportunity to build local guards, both from Banak in the north to Rygge in the south. It's the government I'm sitting in, who has chosen to take this promise. There are considerable resources that have been used to do this, while building the base in Florø. I would like to say that here there has been considerable action that has strengthened the preparedness of the people along the coast. The Florø exposure works well and provides the readiness that one would also have had if the base had been fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1244	I want to think that there's a reason why the other bases are fixed, and that there's only one exposure. There must be a reason for that. As I understand it for those who work there, it's positive if there's another helicopter in Florø. I would like to thank you again for the answer from the Council of State, but I would like to ask you a few more questions. I myself was present when the council opened the base, and there was a feast day in Florø, my hometown. The councils were probably also challenged when this was going to be a fixed base, which has been a requirement. In retrospect, one view has been that there have been far more missions on the base than one estimated at the time when the state council opened the base. One thing that also sees is that the variation in mission is great: it has our salvation in fjords, mountains, broads, seas, etc. We also know that Sea King helicopters are now almost 40 years old, and I see that it's being speculated whether there's going to be new helicopters in 2020, and then they'll be 50 years old. In the light of this information, will the Council of State take action to present the process of renewing the helicopter fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1255	The question then arises as to the capacity of the rescue helicopter service. Then I understand that we agree that it doesn't matter whether it's a deposition or a fixed base. What's important is that you have helicopters available and that you have personnel available. I believe that what is essential to establish more force into all of our bases is to get new rescue helicopters in place. It is no secret that the government has worked very actively with this question, and has a timetable up against this. It'll take a long time. It is a demanding purchasing process, but now a decision has been made in relation to the concept selection for these rescue helicopters. We hope that the timetable that is now set for this to be announced, for the start of procurement, and for us to have good agreements, will also help to strengthen – not only Florø – but also the other rescue helicopters. It's our ambition that during 2016, it is well, and 2020 the new helicopters will be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1262	I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1267	Let's move on to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1274	The question was originally asked by the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. But this is complicated, because the question was first transferred to the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is the Council of State in this case. However, the Minister for Industry and Trade has left. That is why the question is answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1277	It's nice to see there are some government councils in the country. It's also the third consecutive questioning session that there's another government council coming to answer questions, but that's what happens sometimes. I have the honour to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coast the following questions: ‘In connection with the last round of awards relating to rearing concessions, several complaints have been raised, some of which have not been received. The complaint procedure itself has taken a long time. When the final result has come, this has been received with wonder. This concerns in particular issues related to two concessions in Northern and one in Hordaland. Will the Council of State contribute to the granting of concessions in Northern and Hordaland to those three that did not arrive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1288	Initially, I would like to inform you that it is the Council of State Lisbeth Berg-Hansen who has requested the appointment of the Council of State on the issue of the award of additional concessions relating to the 2009 allocation round. It is Trond Giske who is dealing with the matter, and he is currently on duty. I am very pleased that he is, not necessarily because I want to answer the question, but I believe that it is one of the most important industrial policy challenges that is largely international. I think we should appreciate that he uses the opportunity as much as he can. That's why I should answer the question. The question of whether to grant new concessions to the three companies that have lost their concessions in the context of the complaint is still pending in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The case is subject to a thorough assessment, and I do not want to pre-estimate the outcome of this at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1295	Then I almost had to try with a follow-up, because it was a very short answer. It is a good thing that you can get it from a political team once in a while, but when the content is like that, it is worrying. Then I would like to ask the Minister if he can say anything more about the processing process. I also think it is pleasant and good that the Minister of Economic Affairs is travelling. I also assume that he has a particularly high return from the visit to Bollywood this time. It's probably interesting enough, but the thing is, there's actually stuff on the table here at home that requires treatment. This is just such a matter, because it is problematic when you still have to wait in these matters. These complaints were first granted concessions, and then they were informed that they had done so, and then they have not received the final answer. Will the Minister of Justice contact the Minister of Industry when he returns to Norway and ask when this matter can be expected to be settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1304	I am going to get the representative Nesvik in advance, because I have had contact with the Council of State on this issue – at the latest yesterday evening – and in particular on when the clarification will come. It is said that this is now being treated in the department. I can inform you that the Council of State, Gisk, was prepared to deal with these matters immediately, that a clarification is right around the corner, so I assume that this is something you have full pressure on to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1309	Then I look forward to a decision soon. I'm a little bit unsure of what lies in the ‘like around the corner’. At least I hope that these matters will be resolved, because what is the big problem is that you first get a very long trial period in the complaint handling, both in the directorate and at the end in the department. That is the problem for a business operator who is planning his business and who first has received a yes and starts planning from it, and then gets no afterwards. Then it is important to make a quick decision. I hope that the Council of State will take the signals from the Storting to the Council of State when he returns, that we appreciate that a quick decision will be made. We look forward to it and hope, of course, that decision will be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1316	I'm not going to foreshadow what the decision is going to be, because I don't have any assumptions for that. But I want to take along the signals from the representative Nesvik to the Council of State, Giske, so that this goes as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1321	So we go back to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1335	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1342	‘Attractors in More and Romesdal have received a written notification from Nav about the dramatic downgrading of the number of action sites from 1 January 2011. Despite the fact that all measures are in line and that large unused funds were returned from Nav to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in 2009, Nav Møre and Romsdal have sent alerts on the adjustment of the number of action sites. Is this in line with the government's policy, and will not such a downward adjustment mean that fewer disabled people come to work?'
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1349	The government's stated aim is to involve more people with disabilities in the labour market. In the government's 2011 draft budget, there will be about 71 200 places on average for the unemployed and people with disabilities. This is a high level of action adapted to the future labour market situation. Within the proposed 2011 action framework, the government will give priority to vulnerable groups on the labour market, including people with disabilities. Nav County manages labour market measures within given mandates and manages the facility according to local needs in the labour market and the needs of its users. This implies that the county is based on local judgement in order to determine which labour market measures are most appropriate to use. This also means that changes in the formulation of measures may occur over time. Agreement on the implementation of action sites in screened operations is concluded by Nav County and the individual enterprise. Nav Møre and Romsdal state that the allocation and termination of action sites is based on an analysis based on regional needs, which is reported by the local Nav offices. The composition of measures depends on the needs of users for different measures, the level of unemployment and local labour market needs. The requirements notified at this time indicate a distortion of the increased use of measures in ordinary activities and qualification measures. In this context, Nav Møre and Romsdal have decided to downgrade the number of action sites in screened enterprises in 2011. It states that the change in the composition of measures is primarily justified by changes over time in the needs of users. The aim is to provide the best possible opportunity to get more people into normal employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1360	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, in More and in Romsdal, the reintroduction companies get an expected reduction of between 5 and 10 pst. from 1 January. But what happens then is that many people who are currently on these waiting lists to get screened for action are returned to Nav to start a new waiting list. And I ask, is it strange that people give up? Nav’s national figures show that there are 155,000 people without a job, all of whom, according to Nav, need assistance to get to work. When the number of people with disabilities increases sharply, I do not see a reduction in the level of ambition and a reduction in the number of places of action by 7 000. The key instruments are, of course, labour market measures and the IA agreement, and the result of today’s policy must be that more ports in the queue – or that they go out with zero pay. I believe this is a breach on the workline. You don't solve the challenges, you get a lot more unnecessary untapped.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1369	This whole debate on work measures – which I have been involved in at least the time I have been the Council of State – has been very much about the purchase and sale of action sites in relation to different suppliers of labour market measures. What I'm saying here is that Nav – who is the management of labour market measures in Norway – is constantly assessing the type of action that individuals need. And so it's like what you've done at the local level, it's hard for me to try it out. There are people who know their things. So if you make an assessment, given the framework you have, there are these types of measures you need more and more benefit from in terms of money. I stress that that assessment was made by Nav Møre and Romsdal, regardless of whether you had had 4,000 or 5,000 more or less seats this year. They have a portfolio of places — more or less at the same level as they have previously had — that they assess in relation to users, and they believe that users are now undeserved of using these places. They want to distribute that money into another channel. I would like to take the debate on action areas, whether action is the best thing to do. But I'm sorry that the debate is always linked to the purchase and sale of spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1378	I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1383	So the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide does not want additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1390	‘In the annual budget, it is proposed that the special rules for beneficiaries over 64 years of age be abolished from 2011. The reason is that older people should not be stimulated to passive benefits before retirement. This means in clear terms that many older people who are unable to find a new job in a tough labour market are at risk of being without income. Does the Council see that this will result in many older unemployed people, who have experienced dismissals and job losses, being forced to take out pensions early and ending with a low pension for the rest of their lives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1397	The government has a goal that more people will work longer. We are facilitating this through the new age pension and the senior policy effort. The trend shows that the real retirement age has been increasing in recent years. There has also been a positive trend in employers’ overall attitude towards older workers from 2003 to 2010, as recent figures from the Norwegian Senior Policy Barometer 2010 show. It is therefore proposed in the 2011 State budget that the special rules for day-to-day pay recipients over 64 years be abolished from 2011. In order to ensure predictability of the beneficiaries already affected by the special rules, the Government proposes a transitional period of one year. The abolition of special rules means that the legislation on day-to-day pay for the elderly is similar to that for the other beneficiaries of the day-to-day pay. Today’s special rules mean that you can end up with a daily allowance from 62 to 67 years of age, i.e. for five years. As of 1 January 2011, the pension reform will provide for the possibility to withdraw a flexible age pension from the population population from the age of 62. It is a prerequisite that an annual pension of 67 years is equal to at least the minimum pension. The new old-age pension in population protection means that annual pensions increase the later retirement. The specific provisions of the day-to-day pay legislation may therefore lead to adverse adjustments. There is reason to believe that the overwhelming majority of those affected by the winding-up of the special rules will be entitled to an old-age pension from the social security system. The removal of special rules could prevent passive adaptations to the legislation from 62 years of age and could increase the transition to work for this group in line with more positive attitudes towards older workers and efforts to increase the number of people working. The Ministry of Labour will ask the State of Labour and Welfare to ensure that the group affected by the termination of the special rules receives early and qualified follow-up with a view to transition to work. The Ministry will follow closely the consequences of the phase-out of the special rules and will ask the department to report on this issue separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1408	Studies show that older, healthy workers want to work longer. But the problem is that they end up at the back of the queue of jobseekers, and they do not actually get the offer of courses and labour market measures at Nav. As the Council of State said earlier today, younger people must be given priority. Older unemployed people who through a long life have managed to earn more than a guarantee pension are now at risk of ending up as minimum pensioners, and the tragedy they experience when they become unemployed will follow them for the rest of their life. Are there now compulsory retirement ages of 62+ only for those who have ended up in the desperate situation without work, or are they also for those who are not in paid employment and who are currently receiving other social security benefits or benefits for living? And what about all those who haven't earned a guarantee pension? Are they going to end up as social clients after selling everything they own?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1413	I understand that you can look with concern at a rule like this when it falls away. I think at the same time that if we had suggested such a rule today, you would have thought it was very special. So this is a very special treatment for workers over 62 years of age, workers who, in our opinion, – and after what we have put into the pension reform and what we see among attitudes in other areas of work – are as good as some, and who should therefore be encouraged to go to work and not to this transition out of work, which is part of this day-care scheme. So we see that this is a new attitude toward the elderly. We want older people to stay longer in work. We need to work in a targeted way – I agree – to make the workplace more accessible to the elderly. But I have also said that I should have a special eye on how this develops, and that therefore, even though we are to prioritise young people, we have also asked Nav to have a special eye on the development of this group of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1420	As you know, not everyone can be given priority, but I'll have to take another angle. Many people experience health failure between the age of 62 and the age of 67. This also applies to day-to-day agents. But after what I understand, they will not have the right to apply for redundancy payments and disability benefits until they are 67 years of age in line with those who get sick before they lose their job. So new jobs are not in line for those over 60, and the danger of not coming back to work will probably mean that very many people who work in private business will assess their health condition in the past. What does the Council of State think that the removal of this special scheme can actually lead to more people making sure of their disability while at work, rather than taking the chance of becoming unemployed, retiring and ending up as social clients? Is this the way that the red-green government believes that those who unindeed lose their jobs as they approach retirement age will end their working lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1427	I would like to stress that it is right that the retirement age is 62 years old, and we do not want it to be. It's a voluntary opportunity to get out of retirement, but we want people to stay longer in work, and we want to do the things that stimulate people to stand longer in work. This is a rule that doesn't. We are gradually seeing that the retirement age is increasing in this country, and we have – I would like to stress – gone through and looked at whether there will be large groups here that fall outside, either in terms of the right to take out a pension or other benefits. Basically, it's very, very few, but here I can say exactly how many are involved. But it's a few people. Having said that, I have also said that I should follow the rule, but I believe in principle that this is a correct change of rules given that we actually want more and more people to stand in the way of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1438	‘Constantly more families with heavily nurturing children are breaking down mentally and physically after Nav has deprived them of the right to care. The public expenditure has been going on over the years, and the families, together with the parent organisation Brainbarna Norway, have asked the government for help since November 2009. They are despondent and have a feeling that the council doesn't see or hear them. Does the Council of State see that the matter as it has evolved contributes to the destruction of more families, and what does the Council of State do to end this unworthy game?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1445	I am aware that in several cases the Employment and Welfare Act has rejected a renewed application for a care allowance after assessing it so that the conditions for providing a care allowance were not met. As stated in Minister of Labour Aasrud’s reply of 25 November 2009 to the representative’s question to Written Answer No. 207, the Employment and Welfare Act, with the Social Security Court as an independent appeal body, assesses whether the conditions are met in the specific cases. I therefore do not want to comment on the specific assessments made in the cases in question. So it's also said in the answer to question No. 207, however, I would like to point out that the assessment of whether the conditions for entitlement to care allowance have been met is statutory. The State of employment and welfare may not continue to pay care allowance when the conditions are not met. I understand that it can be experienced as difficult for those families who have made arrangements after previous decisions on the granting of care allowance, even if they did not have the right to benefit. I have been informed that the users have been informed that the right to benefit is lost at the end of the granted period. In cases where the performance period had expired, benefits have been provided in a transitional phase. Users are also informed about the municipal welfare pay scheme and have been informed of a contact person at the local Nav office. Welfare pay is a municipal benefit paid as a payment to caregivers, who carry out particularly burdensome care tasks that would otherwise have been carried out by the municipality. It is the municipality that assesses and takes decisions on the scope and types of services, including pay for care. The municipality decides in the light of other services and offers whether care pay should be provided, where appropriate in combination with other services provided by the municipality, and at the same time also the amount of care pay. On 25 June 2010, the Government appointed a public body to assess the benefits to be provided by care providers replacing municipal services. The committee is now in the process of its work and will deliver its investigation by 1 June 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1459	Parents describe an enormous despair that the government is now removing the basis for these children to continue to train intensively, that all they have spent years building up, now raging together, while bureaucrats in the department and Nav are discussing the wording and interpretation of paragraphs that have previously provided the basis for care. This is heartbroken. Can the Council of State imagine that when a mother has to deliver her child to an institution, it tears up her mother’s heart? Can this happen because of the failure of public aid in a rich country such as Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1466	I think we all – the Council of State or not – understand that it is difficult to have sick children, and that it is difficult to have sick children that you deliver to a care institution. So in Norway we have given rules on when you are entitled to care allowance, which is a full and complete compensation for loss of income, and when you can claim care allowance from the municipality. Those rules are that you have chronically ill children over time, you don't have the right to do so. So maybe we can discuss whether that's right or not. But that's the rules, and those rules I have to deal with, and Nav has to deal with them, whether it's sad or not. Then in the municipality we have good rules on care pay, and we also have municipal services. Because it's not like these kids are on the bar when they're not taken care of by anyone. But I understand that this is difficult. That's why I've shown that we've reduced a sample to look at how we can do this. But as the situation is today, there's nothing else we can do but refer to the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1478	Wages and salaries in this situation here are not at all the alternative. Refusal of care allowance applies to all families with children who exercise intensively in More and Romesdal, Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. Families in other counties, such as Akershus, Oslo, Rogaland and so on, are all reestablished under the same paragraphs. Such unequal treatment within the Nav system is very unfair. Can the Council of State defend such unfair discrimination in the provision of public services?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1487	I never defend unfair discrimination in public systems. It is prohibited to discriminate unfairly under Norwegian administrative law, and we have rules to ensure that there is no unfair discrimination. I assume that it has been tried in this case. As far as I know, without knowing everything about the background, there has also been a complaint procedure here, so this must be done on condition. I think we should be a little careful with all the time talking about things being unfairly discriminatory when things are adopted properly and have been through the system, although of course I can never rule out that the system can be wrong. But we also have the opportunity to try the case both before the Social Security Court, as it has been in this case, and before the Court, which is just going to try unfair discrimination. But I think we have to be careful and reserve the term ‘impressive discrimination’ until we have a proper review of the matter. Actually, even though things look the same, they're not necessarily the same. I can't go into it, but I just emphasize that the rules have been followed in this case, and I stress that you want me to change those rules here and now, I don't have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1500	‘Numbers presented in Telemarksavias on 8 October show that as many as one in three people in the Ski are on some form of public support scheme. The prerequisite for the Nav reform was to help people who were in some way out of work return to work. So far, the experience of the new reform is the opposite of what was foreseen when the reform was introduced. What will the Council of State do with the report from Skien, and what new measures will the Council of State take to stop this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1507	The Nav reform involves two things at once; we are making a significant modernisation of most heavy systems in the welfare state, while at the same time modernising and upgrading the administration that administers the schemes. This is precisely done to meet the challenges pointed out by the representative of Hoksrud – namely to ensure that as much work as possible and as little as possible on social benefits. In line with this, the government has introduced inter alia: a closer follow-up to the sick and qualification programme aimed at long-term social assistance recipients. On 1 February of this year, a statutory right to have a need-or-work assessment was introduced and, as of 1 March, redundancy payments were introduced. The regulatory framework for labour market measures was revised from 2009 in order to become more adapted to individual needs. With regard to the number in the Ski which is on a public support scheme, it is the newspaper’s own summation of different statistical sources. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has stated that such a summation has been carried out, there will be double counting of some persons. So the real number is a little bit lower. However, it is not surprising that there are challenges in the Ski. The Employment and Welfare Directorate has informed me that there is a great deal of focus on, among other things. dissemination and provision of both labour-oriented and sick leave follow-up services. In general, telemark has had a reduction in sick leave. Youth action is also an area of activity. Measures aimed at young people are in place in several places in the state in cooperation with the social partners, the county and the county council, and the directorate reports that the qualification programme is well under way. With regard to the immigrant group, which represents a large proportion of those who fall outside the labour force, the department through the Mangfold project has been successful in getting more people into work. The introduction scheme is organised in the Ski as part of the Nav office and thus supports a bet to get this group into activity and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1520	It's good to hear what the council says. I very much agree that this is happening very well, but I would nevertheless point out that many who want to return to work do not experience the positiveness and the help from Nav that the council here is trying to present it as. I want to draw up a few examples: first, there is an older person who wants to come back and start up his own small company. He only experiences problems with Nav and has now lost all his income and more to – having to pay back – and has lived for almost four years without getting any help from the public because he is arguing with Nav, despite wanting to return to work. But that's the true opposite he's experiencing. So I'm going to take the second example in my next question. But I want to challenge the Council of State: why is it that instead of people feeling they're getting help, they feel the opposite way? They feel that they're not getting any help at all, but that they're actually meeting a bureaucracy that's not trying to find good solutions for the individual, but that's trying to stick the screws in the wheels instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1529	I think the debate on Nav is well served that we are also trying to look at the whole of Nav. Nav has 2.8 million. users, and the vast majority of users have a good relationship with Nav. I think it's very important that we remember that, because we all want Velferds-Norway to work as well. If we keep not seeing that we have very good things in Nav, I think we are in favour of a general attitude that neither of us is worthy of. So, of course, in my role, I'm going to say that things aren't good enough in Nav – but a lot of things are getting better in Nav. I can't comment on the matter it is now referred to, because I can't do anything about it, and I don't have a basis for it. However, I would like to say that the very things I am now pointing out, which also happen in the Ski, that we have received redundancy money, work performance assessment – all this – in place, is the basis for doing this better now. It's important to have that whole thing in relation to Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1538	I fully agree that there is a lot of good happening in Nav, and we're going to be happy for that. But I want to do another example of what it's all about. Actually, I was with a person at a Nav office. The person at the Nav office did not know me, at least not until I presented myself. It was an experience, and I understand that for people who want to come back to work, the consequence was at least that after having been at such a meeting with some of the people who are going to help people get back to work, you were discouraged when you went out – despite having been in a work office to help people get back to work. And this was a self-experienced experience. It wasn't about me or someone I'm close to family with, but someone wanted to take me with them to meet Nav and some of the people who work in Nav. Then, of course, the Council of State will certainly say that it is one example – and yes, it is. But it was at least an experience, and I understand that people don't get out of these social security benefits even if they really want to get back to work, because they're met by a system -- and that's the system that's the most important thing, not helping people get back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1547	I'm taking away from a characteristic where the system is more important than helping people back. I think we have good systems in place to help people get back. They're not good enough. Now we're going to look at the disability pension scheme. We're going to look at different directions that can then help people to get away from social security and get into work. I take it seriously that there are individual cases that are not good. I hear about them too, and I take that very seriously. But I stress that it is important that we distinguish the individual issues and the totality both for the purpose of the issue, in fact – because I don't think it serves them that we constantly focus on that way – and also for the sake of the Nav employees, who feel that individual matters are constantly being presented as examples of all they do is bad work. But I take seriously the cases that are bad, and will work systematically to make Nav better on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1558	‘Norway workers may apply to Nav for a certificate E303, which entitles them to keep Norwegian daily allowances while applying for a job in another EEA country for up to three months. They have no obligation to notify or report to Nav. Figures from the first six months of this year suggest that more people will bring the daily allowance to Spain this year than before. Spain has, as it is known, a total of 20 pst. and 40 pst. in the case of young people. Will the State Council take the initiative to intensify the rules on reporting or reporting obligations for this group of day-care recipients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1565	Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is bound by the EU Social Security Regulation, Council Regulation 1408/71. Under Article 69 of the Social Security Regulation, an unemployed EEA citizen who receives Norwegian daily allowances is entitled, under certain conditions, to take the daily allowance to another EEA country or Switzerland for up to three months while seeking work in that country – the export of daily benefits. It is only possible to make use of this scheme once per. part-time pay. The export principle is based on the principle of free movement of persons in the EEA. The aim is to promote the mobility of EEA citizens. In 2009, there were 596 persons who used the access to export Norwegian daily allowances to another country within the EEA territory. Of these, 282 traveled to Poland, and 76 travelled to Sweden. Most people who travel to Poland are Polish citizens, and the Employment and Welfare Directorate estimates that about half of those who travel to Sweden are Swedish. Only 29 out of the 596 persons who received a daily allowance travelled to Spain. Those who exercise their right to export the daily allowance shall be job seekers in the country to which they are travelling. Therefore, the obligations to register with the employment service of that country and they will be subject to the control procedures of that country. After their notification and delivery of the EEA Form E303, the labour market authorities of that country shall pay daily payments on behalf of the Norwegian authorities. If the preconditions for obtaining the daily allowance are broken, this shall be notified to the Norwegian authorities. It cannot be made a condition of exportability that he is available as a jobseeker in Norway during the export period, nor can he refuse to export daily allowances on the grounds that he or she is unlikely to be employed in the country to which he or she is travelling. Under the EEA Code, Norway is not to follow up this group of beneficiaries of the daily allowance. I therefore have no reason to intensify the rules on reporting obligations for this group of day-to-day money recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1580	That's right, what the Council here points out is that we have an EEA regulation. It is not the EEA Regulation that I am calling for that we should do something about, because we do not have that much opportunity in this house. I am fully aware of that. But then the Council of State also says in its reply that you have an obligation to report to the local employment office in the country you are applying for a job. You have to be a regular jobseeker, and if you break those assumptions, it will have consequences for this group – in line with everyone else. But one of the main points is that there's no follow-up. No one is controlling whether this is broken or not. No one is checking it, and so it's in many ways free of charge. How will the Council of State ensure that these users are followed up in a much closer and better way to make sure that they are not breaking the legislation and that they are genuine jobseekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1589	First of all, as I said in my first answer, it's not about a lot of people. It is a little important to stress, even though today's debate may lead to more people taking the trip. But we're not going to have to do that. It is, as Robert Eriksson is also concerned about, not very easy for the Nordics to get jobs in Spain, although I don't think one should rule out that it is actually a global labour market, and that one has different types of skills. So I don't want to rule out that it may be relevant that the competence of an unemployed person in Norway can also provide opportunities for work in Spain. So, as I say, it is clear that there are rules that are followed up by the Spanish authorities, and it is clear that there is a very clear limit between what we as the Norwegian authorities can do, versus what the Spanish authorities can do. And if I understand Eriksson's question right, he doesn't want me to interfere with what the Spanish authorities do – I don't think so either. If the question is whether you can be sure that those who go to Spain actually report to Spanish offices, I will answer that you now have systems for that. You can't just travel, you have to have an appointment with the Nav office before you can travel, so there's a check already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1600	Yes, you have to have an appointment, but Nav also confirms that you do not follow up if you are registered or not. You don't have the capacity to check it out. That's what Nav says to me. Yes, I agree that we have a global labour market. I also want a global labour market, but you don't have to go to another country to look for work and stand there as a beneficiary of a benefit. In the Internet-based world we live in, I can sit in Verdalen, for that matter, looking for jobs in Manhattan, U.S.A. I'll go there if I'm on time for an interview. Maybe that's the way it should have been in other areas as well. But what happens if a Northman who travels to Spain – it's true that there aren't so many people who are talking about, but the number is still increasing – is not being followed up? He could be there for three months. Then there will be a job from the local Nav office. Are you then recalled to Norway? How is it followed up if there is no follow-up routine for it? Will the Council of State ensure that one is recalled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1609	First of all, I don't think it's that easy to get a job when you're in Verdal and you're going to work in Manhattan. I think it's often a good idea to be where you are, but now it is. Therefore, the EEA has rules on this which state that you have free mobility within the EEA and that you have the right to take a benefit with you for three months. It's a right you have, which neither you nor I can take from the citizens it's about. The question is what to do if you are offered an ordinary job in Norway during that period. In fact, I think you're now available for the Spanish labour market. So that's where you're somehow obliged to take a job. However, whether you also have a commitment to the Norwegian authorities, I cannot give a good answer now. I'm going to come back to that, because I want to be absolutely sure that I'm answering correctly. Immediately I don't think you have obligations, but I want to be absolutely sure that I answer correctly. The representative shall receive a written reply from me as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1616	Question 18 has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1623	‘The Court of Auditors has previously identified shortcomings in the administration of adaptation and social assistance to cars for the disabled. The organisation of the car area is under change. I Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011 refers the Ministry of Labour to the fact that this conversion has led to a slight decrease in capacity for a period of time. Users report very long waiting times. What is the status of reorganising the car support area and when does Nav expect to be up-to-date with the processing of applications for special-purpose vehicles?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1630	In line with my information on the Riksrevision, at the latest in my letter of 19 April 2010, and as explained in Prop.1 S for 2010–2011, the reorganisation of the car service area is a demanding and long-term work. There are still challenges related to resolving the audit submissions. It will therefore take some time to fully realise the impact of the measures implemented. On 1 June 2009, five regional car centres were formally established, with a pool of competence on the decision-making side. The purpose of the reorganisation has been to create a better offer for users and to meet the challenges identified by the National Audit Office in its report. For some users, the distance, or disability, will be an obstacle to getting to the car centre. In order to meet this need and ensure a better follow-up of the car and the user, the aim is that each car centre should also be provided with an ambulance service. I would also like to point out that in the period from the National Audit Office’s report back in 2007, the Labour and Welfare Act has been in a very demanding period of reform, during which changes in the car service area have also been carried out within the complex reform pressure. However, there is a good basis for better management and control in the field in the long term. In order to examine whether the new organisation has led to the desired impact in this area, a quality study focusing on areas identified as shortcomings in the Riksrevision report is planned in 2011. Exceptional measures focusing on increased competence and interaction in order to reduce the duration of the procedure in general for new applications and to deal with old residues have been inserted. Most of the cases relating to so-called special-purpose cars are well-treated within the standard requirement of seven months. The number of cases in addition to its own norm requirements has been reduced from 190 cases in July 2010 to 166 cases in September 2010. I would like to make it clear to the Director of Labour and Welfare that I expect positive results as the new organisation comes into place. I will follow this up in the ordinary management dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1645	Several times in the last six months, we have seen families with severely disabled children who have not been granted their application for an adapted wheelchair car. They refer to three years of proceedings and to discrimination, because people with the same syndrome have received in other districts of the country. Governments answered on TV 2: ‘I assume that similar cases have been assessed equally.’ But the section manager in Nav said to TV 2: ‘I’m sorry if users feel that our offers are not satisfactory, but we have a code to which we relate, and do so in our best interest.’ Do officials have to use discretion? Is the guidelines not good enough? Governments have the possibility to provide Nav with new guidelines on the allocation of facilities. Will she make sure it happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1662	This is kind of a slightly different question, but I'd like to answer it. It's about access to a car. If we are going to take the specific matter that I said to TV 2, I stress, and it did not come out in that broadcast, that this matter has been dealt with twice in the Nav system – once with a complaint, up to the Social Security Court, decided by the Social Security Court, and the second time a complaint. I don't know if they decided in the next round to bring it in for the Social Security Court. Some of the most important people have to assume that they have made progress in this matter are considering non-discrimination. Therefore, I assume that the non-discrimination issue has been tested. I stress, as I said earlier here today, that similar cases are not always the same. I think the representative knows that just as well as I do. That's why I'm going to take that into account. Then I also assume that we are administering legislation that the government that set before this government, in fact, failed. It was based on a priority; that those who need it the most, get. That means that not everyone who needs it gets, but those who need it most, get.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1671	Eight-year-old Filip of Leknes has Angelman's syndrome. The boy has serious problems with motor skills and coordination. For the family there will be many heavy liftings. Nav has given Filip and the family an electrically specially adapted wheelchair, but a car with a lift or ramp has not received it after three years of fighting. The wheelchair can be set on a trailer, says Nav – at its best discretion. I wonder if the council has thought through how it will be an early, dark and slippery morning in Leknes in winter when a mother is going to go to school and kindergarten with three children in the car, as in this case, and a trailer with a heavy electric wheelchair at the back. Hubs shall be there to help families in difficult situations. Does the Council of State think that this family has received enough help?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1676	I have no doubt that that family needs help. But I'm running a code, like the former government, where the right-hand seat was made, and we're going to do some priorities between those that get right to car group 1 and car group 2. There have been some rules, they're the ones I'm running now, and that's to make sure that as much as possible can get this good. If I said over the table that it is clear that Filip will get this – I can't, you see – then I have to go in and change the whole code. It is a budgetary re-priority that the government has not chosen to give priority to this round, precisely because we want to get as much as possible of a kind of measure, that is, we get more people who get this second type of car. If you still do something else, you have to cut the whole thing, so that fewer people get a car with a trailer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1681	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-27.ana.ud190e1693	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
