ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e37	The representatives Åse Michaelsen, Morten Højlund, Bård Hoksrud, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Susanne Bratli, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Morten Højlund, Irene Johansen, Helga Pedersen, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Arild Stokkan-Grande on leave from 18 October to 12 November, and from the representative of Ingerd Schou on leave from 19 October to 11 November, all to attend the 65th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York from the High Council on the leave of the representative of Erna Solberg from 18 October to 22 October to take part in meetings with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Japan; These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Bård Langsavold, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Arild Stokkan-Grandes from 18 October to 22 October, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Tone LiljerothFor Finnmark County: Willy PedersenFor Hordaland County: Eivind Nävdal-BolstadFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Ingvild Kjerkol and Bård LangsåvoldFor Østfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås and Tage PettersenFor East-Agder County: Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski, from 19 October to 12 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e133	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e136	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Olav Syversen, Knut Arild Hareide, Øyvind Håbreek and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to improve the conditions for small businesses through measures for a simpler working life, better conditions for value creation, simpler everyday life and better interaction between the public sector and private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e141	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e153	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Trond Giske and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We'll start with the first main questions from Mette Hanekamhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e162	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question. Every year we hear about thousands of schoolchildren who don't attend school. The problem is growing. Human Rights Service has published reports on the problem, both in 2004 and last year. A review of the statistics of the Statistical Centre shows large differences between the number of school-leaving children in Norway and the number of children registered in school. Last year, this was the gap of 4,000 children, and it's assumed that the number has increased this year. At the same time, it appears that several municipalities do not have an overview of how many children this applies in their municipality — why they are not there, how many are not there, and where they may be located. All children in Norway have the right and obligation to receive 10 years of basic education. This is not only a basic right but also a training obligation. This implies that parents have an obligation to ensure that their children receive appropriate primary education in line with the Training Act. If this obligation is not fulfilled, the law allows for criminal prosecution. Few or no cases are known where supervisors have been consulted by local or central authorities to find out why the child in question is not registered at school. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council of State see the problem in the absence of a national overview of the extent of this problem, and what action, if any, will the Council of State consider that action can be taken to ensure that local authorities better monitor the problem in order to find out what has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e175	I think it's hard to have a good national overview of children who should be at school, but who are not at school – i.e. does not have their right to participate in school or have their duty to do so. At national level, it is difficult to have such a detailed overview. What we have to ensure is that each municipality follows up the children who don't meet – if not the first day of school, then at least two or three. Therefore, in a reply to the representative, Hanekamhaug, I have said that we are going to develop a good supervisor that the municipalities are going to use, it is those who have a duty to follow the law in this area, and to do it as quickly as possible, because it is a serious matter that children do not attend the school. Now we know that there are some municipalities working pretty well with this. If we look at the numbers from e.g. Oslo municipality, there was an overview in 2003, when they reported to 85 children because the children did not come to school. In 2008, the number was 15 children – it is because they have worked very systematically according to a very clear plan on how to proceed if there are children who do not meet at school. The point 1 of that plan is to contact your home. The point 2 is to check the information with the public register and the social security office. Point 3 is home visits, contact with parents’ employers, the siblings’ school or kindergarten. Point 4 is a statement of concern for the protection of children. Point 5 is to evaluate a review. I think that is a reasonable procedure for those municipalities that discover that there are children who are not attending school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e184	What we also see at the same time is that there has been a decrease in the number of reported cases, from 30 to 15, in Oslo in the last four years. But at the same time, statistics show that the number of children who have not met has increased considerably at the same time. That's why it's not that the number of cases reported has dropped, something positive, it's also negative, as it shows that there has been an increase of almost 180 pst. in the number of schoolchildren of school age who have not met in Oslo in the last nine years. We have local authorities that follow up, but they can't follow it up properly, and we lack national governance and coordination of this, how we can actually solve it. Because it turns out, as I said – also in the example you mentioned from Oslo – that they are unable to follow it up in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e189	Unfortunately, I don't think what we have of national statistics is a good tool in this area, because it's not accurate enough as to which children it's actually about, and we can easily be led to discuss this to an extent and in size that doesn't match the local conditions. Then, of course, I've considered: is it that we need a better national statistics, so that we have a better way to get an overview of this? I think that we need a national overview of how big the problem is, and we need to make sure that each municipality follows up, but we don't need a national overview that makes us follow up every single child. I have to make sure that the municipalities do their job towards them. When I discuss this with the municipalities that might be the ones that have the biggest challenges in this area, my impression is that they work systematically and properly to ensure that all children are entitled to school. But of course I'm going to be close to this, because it's a very serious matter if children don't meet at school and don't get the right to a school in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e197	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e200	Unfortunately, it represents an integrational tragedy that we know that children with a migrant background today are being sent out of the country to attend Qur'an schools and ‘teached’ Western values of freedom acquired in Norway. It is a problem when you come back to Norway, and it is of course also a problem because it inhibits the exercise of freedom of these children when they grow up. I think it's too easy when the Council of State says it's hard to get a national register. I can't understand anything but that we have most of the data we need in order to coordinate and get this overview. I have also understood that the Swedish National Government actually accepted such a national register, and that it would even go as far as child welfare – I thought it was a good suggestion – to parents who do not send their children to school. Is that a position SV will pursue further in government, or have you just put it on the shelf?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e207	The law is such today that if the children do not meet at school, they can draw their parents into child’s care. I think it is a reasonable tool to use because it is a serious matter not to meet. What we have to ask ourselves here is, what do we need from an overview to do the job that's about getting those kids to school? And then if we get a statistics in November or December, and the kid hasn't met at school for school in August, it goes way too long. After all, we have to demand that the municipalities on day two, or three, contact those children and follow them up – after a very clear recipe, and that is: contact the home, get an overview, make sure you contact the child protection if necessary, and report if the child does not come. What we can't do is bring up children abroad, so the problem that the representative Amundsen first addressed is hard to deal with. But the municipalities have to be close, and we can't wait until November for statistics. [[The President clubs.]] You have to be very clear once you see that here you have a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e212	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e215	A little back to the main question, which goes on the registration and follow-up of invalid absences: I am a little surprised when the Council of State so strongly emphasizes that it is so difficult to put in place a national overview. I can't understand how the Council of State dares to be the Council of State without having that overview, because it must be absolutely essential to know that the children meet at school. In connection with the registration every year, it must be possible to get it in place, so I hope that the Council of State really does intervene. Then the Council of State says that it is important to ensure that all municipalities follow this up. I think that's an important point. Looks like there's more to Oslo. Oslo has a fantastic set-up – I have it here – that works, that has made the reports happen, and that has made the reports go down. I am reasonably sure that during the day we can guarantee the rights to copy this and send it out. That means that the Council of State will be able to send out letters tomorrow. Will the council agree to use Oslo's example, and send it out quickly, so that we get started in the schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e225	We already have a guide to the municipalities on how they will proceed, and I have said in my reply to Hanekamhaug that we should create a new one to follow up how to work on these matters – whether Oslo's recipe is a good recipe. If I thought it was appropriate and a good tool to have a national overview of which children this is about 1 November, 1 December, 1 January, I would have gotten it tomorrow. But the reality is that if they're children who don't go to school on August 25th, or August 30th, I demand that there be a municipality that troops at home with their parents and says, "Where is that kid?" And if that kid doesn't come after two days or three days, well, they get to go to child protection, or at work, and then they get to come. We can't sit with our hands in jail until November 1st and believe we're doing something. Here we must not pretend that we are doing anything or that it is as practical as possible to ensure that we have the national overviews of each child; we must have a national overview that shows us how big the problem is, but then we must make sure that the municipalities act. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e232	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e235	In the light of Amundsen's questions, I would like to start by saying that it is incredibly important that we do not create a de-and-vi situation. It's not just their kids losing on the social arena, losing on the knowledge arena, it's our kids too. I think we should agree that this is a shared responsibility that we all have. I want to point out this that has to do with home-school cooperation. For the Christian People's Party it was incredibly important to get it lifted high and not least to get it into the school's purpose section, which SV and the government parties showed a lukewarmness, but fortunately we got it to. This is an example of how important home-school cooperation is and how important it is that home-school cooperation works well. I wonder what the Council of State will do to strengthen home-school cooperation, so that we can do something about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e244	If the case has evolved so far that there are children in Norway who are not attending school, I do not think the general home-school collaboration is the answer. Then it's simply to get up and pick up the kid and say what kind of rules apply. I think we can bomb a little bit if we think this is just about minority children. The head of the parental committee, Loveleen Brenna, has said that this probably applies in more environments than in minority environments, we must not believe that we do not have a general problem. Therefore, I believe that if we discover this issue, the rapid response from the municipality is valid. Then it is not to count that applies, then it is to pick up the ones that apply. But then I fully agree that a good relationship between school and parents is generally of enormous importance, not just to the attendance at school, but to the follow-up at school. In fact, all parents' interest is very important and makes a difference. Also parents who are illiterate who think they have nothing to do with schoolwork [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e251	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e254	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The math subject wears in counterwind. Too many students experience little mastery in the subject, don't see the sense of mathematics and perform poorly professionally. Mathematics often appears to be theoretical and not related to the everyday lives of students. I guess this was part of the background that the government appointed the Working Party on Mathematics for everyone in the autumn of 2009. The current Minister of Knowledge, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, then said: ‘It’s a challenge that many people have problems with mathematics. So now we're working on an investigation into the maths of the future and how training can become more relevant and engaging." The Math report for the All Committee was recently published. The selection has focused on how more people can acquire better basic knowledge in the field, while at the same time facilitating the acquisition of their professional interest in mathematics in Norway. The Minister of Knowledge's response to this was incredible enough to shoot down the committee's main recommendations and reject the proposals as out-of-date policy under this government. It is alarming that it is the country's minister of knowledge who thus stands in the way of an important professional discussion on how to strengthen one of the core subjects of the school and raise the level of knowledge of the students. PISA and TIMS studies report a major national problem with a continuous decrease in the level of knowledge among Norwegian students. It's serious. I can't understand this in any other way than that the SV manager here has overrun the knowledge minister. My question to the State Council Halvorsen will then be: How can she, as Minister of Knowledge, explain that the proposals of the Government Committee on Mathematics for all are parked, when very many Norwegian students labor in mathematics, and the subject itself shouts for renewal and more adapted training?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e272	This choice of mathematics that has just come up with its way, has come up with a lot of suggestions that it's important to follow up, and that are entirely consistent with the challenges that we have, that math is the subject most students are striving for, that most students are going through in high school, and that you have the greatest level of knowledge in. One important point from the sample is that mathematics might be a little bit more than other subjects based on basic knowledge at the bottom, that it's hard to re-enter holes if you don't have a basic competence at the bottom. What is not a good recommendation from the sample is to make a systematic level-sharing from high school. I'm very surprised if the Right thinks it's a good suggestion. Once we've talked to the sample, that's not their main point either, but to make sure that all the students have a -- what to say -- good knowledge of the core of mathematics before they go on. Level-sharing for 13-year-olds has been tried before, and many other countries have also tried it. It leads to less knowledge in mathematics, because it means that many of the students who had the opportunity to get a lot further in mathematics choose the lowest level and are comfortable with it, and have no pressure from home to get any further. So we're getting a lot of less knowledge. Working systematically with adapted education, but not forcing students to choose a level in the 13th century, and making sure that you work much more practically in mathematics – which is a very much practical subject that can be arranged much better – is the recipe for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e281	I hear what the Minister of Knowledge says, but it's one of the main recommendations in the sample report that you have to differentiate more in this subject because too many students fall off. I have not perceived the selection to be permanent leveling, but that it should still be possible to work from one level to another. I think that the Minister of Knowledge also has a problem when you present it so that the knowledge of this subject is actually very well in today's situation. In fact, many students today leave primary school with such failed math skills that many doors are closed to 16-17-year-olds, both for high school and beyond — because their mathematics skills are failing. I wonder when the government will come up with a concrete plan, and what is the government's grip when you don't want to follow the main recommendations to the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e288	I think the representative Aspaker has to read what's in the setting, because it's sharing a basic knowledge of mathematics and a more advanced mathematics. Those who choose the basics shall pursue practical mathematics in higher education. So it's level-sharing for 13-year-olds. And there are very good professional reasons not to facilitate it, because we know that you get less math skills in general in the population, and that many students choose too low a level in relation to how far they can get. I'm very surprised if the Right goes in order for us to repeat the old syllabus or level-sharing in high school. But when I have talked more about the sample, it has come to light that they have not necessarily meant it as literally as what is in the setting. I think that's interesting, because it's absolutely vital that we do two things in mathematics. One is to lift more, because there are too many people who have too little knowledge and too little knowledge of what is at the heart of mathematics, but at the same time give those who have special abilities and interest, something more to reach for. [[The President clubs.]] In both of these areas, we work systematically. I am very surprised if the Right will reintroduce the syllabus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e295	The President will remind you that when the clock that's in front of the speaker's chair shows zero, the speaking time is out. Then it's an idea that one goes in for landing, and does not take off.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e298	Sorry, President, if I show too much commitment to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e304	There will be two follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e307	I'm responding to the fact that the Council of State rejects this proposal because the level has fallen, and that before we've discussed what content to give the practical basic mathematics, and what content to give to advanced theoretical mathematics. Today, there's a system that I'm experiencing is cheered for, also from the red-greens: to let the best students, those who fill the skills goals of a year, get to take the upper level. So the best students are going to take a higher-level course than they are at today. Then I don't understand the fundamental difference between that and letting students choose on their own basis what math education they want to take in primary school. I can imagine letting the Council of State tell me now. What is the principle difference between letting some students choose math education at their level, and today's practice that the best students are allowed to take mathematics at the higher level?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e316	What's the challenge here is to be able to get into a customized education that allows you to hit individual students whether they're struggling with math or having very good skills for mathematics, and whether we're going to make a fixed level division from the 13th century. The last is a very bad idea. It shows our own experience with curricula, and it shows all international research. Those who have to make decisive choices based on their own interests and their future when they are 13 years old may very quickly fall for the temptation to choose levels that are too low in relation to what they can achieve. That we should have variation, which the representative Tord Lien is involved in, which we have set up, and which is a red-green knowledge policy, that is, for example. a high school student who is interested in mathematics, can also follow a secondary level, is just part of the adapted education. But creating fixed groups to follow students' levels in upper secondary education is not a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e325	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions. Then two more representatives have asked to ask follow-up questions about this main question, and it is given the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e330	I read in a blog that in earlier times Per Jorsett was the best person to learn math in Norway, because you put your head bill to figure out the lap times and how it went when you stood on skates. That basic knowledge may not exist in today's children and young people. I very much agree when the Council of State says it's the basic knowledge that should be in place, and that's what's the challenge. Today, we have a great deal of teachers that we have allowed to lack knowledge in math. There's a big concern for me, because if you're going to be able to get kids to learn math, understand math, then the teachers have to get all the skills they need. It may be where repairs are required, not in relation to children and their position. My question is how the Council of State will equip not only future teachers, but the teachers who are currently out in school, with the competence that Jorsett had, which made us children and young people to run with the bill. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e339	This is a very important and important challenge, because we also know that many of the real-time teachers we have are starting to approach retirement age dangerously. We need to recruit new, but also to train those we already have. So an important part of the structure we have for the further education of teachers is just about continuing education in mathematics and real science, and we have our own knowledge centres in these areas that are also going to encourage and encourage this. We have a lot to pick up on getting more varied ways of working on in mathematics. The students who have the theoretical mathematics at the secondary level work much more unilaterally than their fellow students in other countries. They often sit alone and solve problems, while mathematics is a much more practical subject than a lot of students think. A lot of students have barriers and complexes in relation to mathematics, and a lot of their parents have the same thing, so the roller blind goes down, and you think this is something we don't master. So we have a big job to do in getting a lot more varied forms of work in mathematics, and fortunately we have... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e346	Henning Warloe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e349	The Minister of Knowledge has set up a selection of professionals and then rejects the main recommendation of this sample. In my opinion, the Minister of Knowledge assumes a very great responsibility when she sets aside the recommendations of the professionals. At least she should have a good understanding of the subject. Now the Minister of Knowledge has said in the past, and here again today, that mathematics is a practical subject. I think that's quite surprising for those who are working on this subject at school, and who have probably believed that they were working on a theoretical subject. I called the National Mathematics Center this morning to ask if they thought this was a practical subject, and they said no, it's a theoretical subject. I wonder if the Minister of Knowledge feels that she has better assumptions to evaluate the recommendations of this selection than the professionals and those who work at the Math Center have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e358	Let me make it clear once and for all that mathematics is both a practical and a theoretical subject. But a lot of students who have barriers to mathematics -- this is a subject where we have great challenges -- see it as a far too theoretical and distant subject. The good math teachers, who really manage to engage children and youth and gain their self-confidence in mathematics, start by showing how much math there is around them everywhere. I have asked the Right several times whether this is how you want to reintroduce syllabus and level-sharing from the secondary school. I get no answer. It's a very bad proposal, a very little research-based position to have. I'm very surprised if that's Right's new knowledge policy. From there to say that we need to have more varied and adapted mathematics education and focus on having basic knowledge because it's important to have and build on, is another thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e367	It's possible the president has misunderstood, but isn't it that Trine Skei Grande has asked follow-up questions? - She doesn't. Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e372	I have a question to the State Council Halvorsen. In these days, many parents are wondering what consequences the new system of funding for kindergartens, introduced from New Year’s onwards, will have. The way it is now to be counted on will have major negative consequences for a good number of municipalities. Fears are expressed both for reduced quality and for dramatic cuts in many kindergartens. In Vennesla, a municipality in the South, there has now become a strong commitment of the population to the outcomes of the changed funding of kindergartens. It is in the evening the drum together for a protest meeting, a people's reaction, where the title is «Keep Quality Childhood». For the type of municipality that Vennesla is, a cut will amount to nearly 13 million. kr in the nursery sector. Of course, according to local media, this will have consequences for the quality of kindergarten. Quality and empowerment measures need to be cut, larger groups of children and fewer adults need to be established, and perhaps there is also a need to reduce kindergartens. There has been no lack of warnings from Barnehage-Norway and from the opposition against doing so. Vennesla is a municipality that has worked hard to get a good quality kindergarten offer. When they get this changed way of transferring funds, they get hit very hard. So it would be interesting to hear how the council has intended to respond to the parents who are now concerned about the quality of their offerings. As responsible for kindergarten and quality, I am also very interested to hear how the Council of State sees itself as being able to ensure that we get quality in kindergarten throughout the country, when we now put the nursery funding into the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e384	This is a question I'm very happy to get, because I know that the municipalities around now are discussing how to cope with the transition from earmarked funds to the fact that kindergarten money is within the framework. It goes without saying that then you don't hit the crown in relation to what has been the grant so far, it's in incorporating this into the earmarked funds. Some criteria have been created, so-called objective criteria, to try to figure out which municipalities have a great need for kindergartens, and which have a little less. That means that over 50 pst. broken down by children aged 3 to 5 years. The next scale, at approx. 36 p.m., refers to children between 1 and 2 years of age without cash support. And then there's a little element that I know a lot of people have reacted to. It is about the level of education among women. It's not about whether we're more for those women who have a high level of education than those who, for example, are. has a letter, but is related to the fact that it has proved to be a criterion to be able to say something about the demand for kindergartens. What I see in part of the municipal debates is that you look at the transfers to the municipalities. And then you look at the little bit that's about how to implement the municipality's earmarked funds, and then ask, have we come in plus or minus here? The picture is not comprehensive, as there are many changes in the municipal economy from 2011. I want to ask parents and anyone who works on this, to look at the whole thing. We had to look at the whole thing about how to transfer the money to the municipalities, to make sure that there was enough room for action to ensure the quality of the kindergartens. In addition, we have a pot for beauties of 400 million. kr, which is of course to be used. However, it is essential that municipalities do not now take advantage of the opportunity to cut down on the kindergarten budgets because they themselves are given greater responsibility for them, that they prove themselves worthy of the task, so that they can also take proper care of the private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e395	It is precisely these criteria that provoke violently in a municipality like Vennesla, especially the criterion of giving parents with high education more money in the box than parents with low education. In parallel with many success stories in many municipalities, there are a number of municipalities that face major living challenges. It's a part of the municipalities where the way of calculating what the government and the government have provided gives negative results. In Vennesla, a large industrial municipality, this gives the same outcome as in Haugesund. Many of the municipalities with a large share of industry have many who are active but do not have higher education. That means that these municipalities are the most affected. And then they ask themselves, why is this completely different from what the government otherwise thinks about social cohesion? Why are these municipalities hardest hit by that way of calculating?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e402	I realize that that criterion provokes, if you understand it as a kind of a message of value. But it has therefore been found on an objective basis as a criterion for measuring the demand for kindergartens. And that's a small part of it, under 12 pst, which is the weight in terms of how these babysitting money are distributed. It is extremely demanding to find the right ways to do this, when there are as many as 28 child care areas that are now to be distributed to the municipalities, and for which the municipalities are to be responsible. My strong call to the municipalities, to parents – to all those who are concerned with the quality of the kindergarten – is: You have to see the municipal budget together. It is not only possible to measure the impact of the criteria for the kindergarten sector, because we have also changed the criteria for, for example: school. You have to see it all together, because it's not clear enough when you go from an ear-marked arrangement to incorporating this into the frames, to take the crown for heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e409	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e412	If one criterion is wrong, it's probably a bad consolation that there are other criteria that give a larger whole. But my question is also about the quality of kindergartens. There is great concern in the kindergarten sector because, according to the draft State budget, the appropriations are transferred to the framework of 1 January, due to new distribution keys, consultation on new rules on dividends and non-discrimination, lack of pre-school teachers, and because many municipalities are still striving to ensure full coverage and keep up with demographic changes. The increase in budgetary appropriations from the government to quality measures is close enough. State Secretary Lisbeth Rugtvedt says to the Evening Post: ‘When we move to framework funding next year, we can see greater differences between municipalities.’ The question to the government council is: does the quality of kindergartens increase, or does the quality decrease from 1 January 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e424	Firstly, I would like to remind the representative, Håbreek, that the Bondevik government also announced to the Stortinget that the earmarked funds for the kindergartens were to enter the municipalities' framework in the 2007 budget. Now this is exposed to the 2011 budget, and it's because we wanted to be sure that we had full babysitting, and that you were on a certain level before you did. There are many possibilities that open up when municipalities are given greater responsibility for kindergartens. Many municipalities think more offensively around kindergartens, think more offensively about how to work together between kindergartens and school, and have much more attention around quality. But the very inclusion won't matter much to whether the quality goes up or down. But we have to have ambitions to further enhance the quality of kindergartens. That's why we've reduced this sample that Sylvia Brustad leads. That is why we ourselves ensure that we have budgets in terms of quality in kindergartens and the continuing training of pre-school teachers. That is why we have to work to reduce the number of exemptions for pre-school teachers and senior management positions in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e429	Hanne C.S. Iverse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e432	I heard that the Council of State said that we had to look at the whole of municipal funding. This is precisely what makes both parents, municipal politicians and rapporteurs from all parties concerned about this conversion of funding. All the municipalities out there operate now and cut in their budgets, and there are already too many tasks in the framework to enable municipalities to cope with this. This is actually gambling with the growing-up conditions of our kids. My question to the Council of State is: Will you take these strong signals seriously and actually consider – at least partially – a earmarked funding of kindergartens, so that we can ensure quality and capacity? This is the future of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e439	It's a very important thing for me to follow closely what's now happening in the municipalities in connection with these 28 babysitters, which is the greatest integration of any earmarked grant in our history, and which is crucial for the quality of the provision to the children. I don't think there are very many municipalities that think it's unreasonable that they get this responsibility, because they've been very concerned about taking this responsibility, and because there are some opportunities here to see the relationship between kindergartens and school better in the future. But of course, it will always be that you want a better community economy. We have now started a sample work on what kind of framework we're going to have around kindergartens. We're aiming at steering more strongly in terms of quality, even, we also need to look further at pre-school teacher education, and we need to work in terms of the dispensations we have with pre-school teachers in kindergartens. So I'm working after what we've discussed in Stortinget in the past, namely that the next phase of kindergarten bet is now about how we can raise the quality further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e446	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e449	Now the previous questioners have addressed a number of issues that are at the back of the right. We feel that the situation is not reassuring when it comes to transferring kindergartens to the framework at that time. But I'm a practical person, and I think now it's going well as it goes, when it's a majority. Then there's one thing that I'm going to challenge the state council, and that I think one should take hold of, and that's the liquidity of the kindergartens. The constant problem we face at the private kindergartens is that they get their money after many, many months. It has something to do with the municipal audit and the municipal accounts and things to do. This is a very sensitive problem. It's obviously a problem that goes beyond quality, and it goes beyond the safety that both parents and employees feel about the operation of private kindergartens. Will the Council of State ensure that there are leaders who make the kindergartens actually get the money they need within a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e457	I would like to examine how this is being done in practice. However, the legislation is such that kindergartens should have foreshadowed what they had in the previous year in the first quarter, so that there should be predictability for kindergartens in terms of the liquidity situation. But I'd like to follow up on how this actually happens. What we are now also about to do is put the last hand on the work in terms of the regulations that are concerned with ensuring good framework conditions for the private kindergartens. In the state budget there is a further step in the escalation plan for non-treatment of municipal and private kindergartens, so that the average is now 91 pst. It is very important that private kindergartens have predictable framework conditions. They account for approx. In Norway, half of the kindergarten places have been and have been a very important co-player in achieving full kindergarten coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e464	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e467	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, and he will also attend here today. In June of this year we had a debate here in Stortinget related to State power and a lack of answers to questions about state equity. Then 16 months had passed without a response to the request. After another while, the answer came – at least you have to interpret it as an answer – from the Council of State, and the answer was then in the form of the resignation of the board of directors, and a new board of directors was appointed in the company. It took approx. 11⁄2 years from the company Statkraft sent an application for equity before any response was received at all, while the final answer related to the equity situation has not yet been clarified. We see that Statkraft is coming up with a new strategy for the company. My question is not whether or not State power is going to sell itself into other companies or not to find other ways to raise capital. My question to the State Council is about the ownership management or ownership policy of the government. The government has notified a new ownership message, but it will probably take a while before it comes. In the meantime, we also see that the government, through the state budget, is forecasting a huge return from State power – up to the top of 5 billion. kr in dividends from Statkraft until next year. My question to the Council of State is as follows: How long should one wait to give an answer to companies that come in the same situation as Statkraft, before considering the answer as a no? One cannot interpret it in any other way when the Council of State does not respond to requests for a certain period of time, but it would be to consider that one does not receive equity. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e480	I thank you for the question and the opportunity to participate in the spontaneous Question Time. State power is an important company. State power manages what many in Norway consider to be inheritance silver, our hydropower resources, and, as the questioner says, has contributed billions of dollars spent on education, health, care — to many important welfare tasks. Is there one thing I'm proud of with the red-green government – there are many things I'm proud of, but is there one thing I'm really proud of – is that we've retained these values on the community's hands, that we've opposed proposals from the right to privatize such resources, and that we're still getting these revenues into the state budget. So it's true, as the questioner says, that the government and the government in Statkraft want to invest more. There are many companies that have it and that go to their owners and ask for billions to get the opportunity for new business. We have an assessment of that. State power has also retained some of its profits, which they can use for investment. State power has also raised a larger loan, which they use for investment. But I believe that we, as politicians, should be as careful and responsible with the state's money as if it were our own, when we go into business areas. We don't want to risk putting the community's money, which is needed for many important tasks, into uncertain investment tasks. Thus, we will be absolutely sure that it is safe. Some risk is always commercial, but I think in particular the state should be careful to take exceptional risks. It is also wrong that there is no dialogue between Statkraft and the owner. We have a lot of meetings, a lot of dialogues. I had a meeting last month with the entire board and the entire board of directors in Statkraft. We have a good dialogue around Statkraft's investment plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e491	I have not expressed my disagreement with the Council of State that thorough assessments should be made on equity. My question to the Council of State is: How long must it be when you do not answer questions, before the company might have to consider this as a no to equity? When the Council of State itself says that it is important that we carry out thorough analysis, and that we have to use the money very carefully, I fully agree with the Council of State's assessment of it. That was also why the Progress Party in its time actually felt that not only should new capital be allocated to airlines. On 3 June the Council of State delivered the following opinion: “We’ll give Statkraft an answer when we’ve decided.” Now you've been notified through the state budget that you take 85 pst. dividends from the company. That is to say, this is how you have been notified that you do not see the great need for equity yet. When can you expect the government and the Council of State to decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e505	We have this to assess. It is quite right, as the questioner says, that one part of Statkraft's question, namely how much of the surplus is left in the company, and how much we are going to take in dividends, is determined by each state budget. Here, not only the government but also the opposition has been by three consecutive years and adopted what should be State power's dividends, and therefore also what they have left of equity for reinvestment. Then there is the question of a new capital injection or an extension of the capital to State power. We will decide when we feel confident that the investment plans that Statkraft has are more profitable than an alternative location of community money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e512	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e515	I understand that the council does not want to go into the essence of what he was asked about, because the essence is how to give good governance signals to the company that the state owns 100 pst. – the company that is to invest in renewable energy, which the whole Stortinget wants to do. When Aker, SAS and Hydro recently asked for equity, they got it almost in the day's day despite the fact that they operate in areas where the government says in climate debates at least one has to get away from. When Statkraft comes and wants to invest in line with the wishes of the government and of a total accumulation, a person who spends over 18 months giving them an answer. The council said on the NRK 18 August this year that he has given an answer. The absence of a response is also an answer, but then the answer has to be interpreted as no. So that's the opposite of what he said in Stortinget on June 3rd, when he said there would be an answer. So I repeat the question from Nesvik: how long will a state company wait in silence before they interpret silence as a no?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e524	There is no silence, there is an ongoing dialogue between the owner and the company. State power has a lot of investment objects that they could think of going into, but it's the owner who decides if we should put capital there. So is the case with other companies. It's not like it's just for Orkla to call Stein Erik Hagen and ask for it. What is Statkraft planning? 90 B.C.E. kr in investments – there is a sum equal to 3 pst. by the oil fund. You're talking about huge values here. The fact that the Advance Party believes that we should almost only print a check on the day and place state money in such a way is most surprising. On the contrary, the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed that we sell shares in State power. In my home municipality, Trondheim, the Progress Party and Right provided to sell Trondheim Everk. It's cost Trondheim's inhabitants 5-6 billion. kr in loss of earnings of six years. Now you have to do the same for Norway as you did for Trondheim at the time. It's an incredibly bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e529	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e532	I would like to pursue the track with local power plants and owner-management. A few weeks ago, the Council of State was in Bergen. According to Bergen's Official Journal, he says in meeting the trustees about BKK, which is partly owned by Statkraft, that Statekraft cannot participate in short-term solutions to finance Bergen. He then looks forward to the adopted dividend policy with which the trusted ones were dissatisfied, and with which he indicates that he cannot do anything as a minority. On state ownership, in July, the Council of State says to Today's Business that it is important not to cleave to the role of the board, the management and the owners. It seems that the Council of State appears to have one ownership exercise in relation to the tabloid media in Oslo and another in relation to local trade union representatives. Can the Council of State tell me what alternative the Storting should deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e542	We're going to have clear expectations of the companies in which the state owns, and that's why we made a ownership announcement a few years ago, and that's why we're going to make a new one for the winter. We should not be more passive than the private owners are. One of the expectations we're going to have is that these companies contribute to long-term value creation. One of the advantages of state ownership is that we are not so dependent on developments in the next quarter, or short-term exchange fluctuations. We can think about long-term value creation. Indeed, hydropower is just such a long-term value creation, where investments have been disbursed for the longest time, where the price of producing power is low, and where it is sold with good profits for the community. It's a pleasure for the community that we get this money in. We have also said that the sale of BKK, if it comes up as a matter, is a matter for the general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e549	Then we move on to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e552	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. In the future, we have had a lot of discussion about VAT on e-services, and the background step for that is the requirement of the book industry in terms of VAT on e-books. I think it is striking that the Council of State seems to have been quite absent in the debate both on the e-books and now in the more general answer that I feel the government is giving. And so this answer is that we're going to get VAT within the entire range of – what to say – the cultural products that are distributed over the web, and that's when foreign actors we're talking about. As we read this, it is primarily the Minister of Finance who later found this good solution – at least the government thinks it is a good solution – that it is simple money in cash. That's the best thing to do for a finance minister. Now it is true that the charging system has also been an important part of the instrument of cultural policy, and it surprises me that the government – we say – is so absent from cultural policy reasons in this respect. The starting point is pretty simple. It is simply a matter of distributing books online instead of on paper. There are the same reasons that apply in relation to language, in relation to — let us say — the set of cultural policy arguments that apply to current tax exemptions for books, and in and on newspapers as well. Why not give a good answer to this in the form of also providing VAT exemptions on e-books and subsequently online newspapers instead of making a rather inconvenient proposal which is unlikely to be feasible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e563	The reason why we haven't given a consistent answer to this question is that we haven't finished working on it, like almost every country in the European Union. Moms is never a happy thing, the representative knows that. It is quite clear that the VAT exemption in both newspapers and books has been a very important instrument in both language policy, literature policy and freedom of expression. But there are also other considerations that we're going to take on this question. That is why I have said – and the Minister of Finance has said – that we want to see this in the context of what the Media Support Committee considers, namely VAT exemptions for newspapers. The reason why this question is not obvious, and that neither does the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain and France perceive this issue as very simple, is that an e-book is more than one text. At the moment you download a music file, or maybe a movie snippet, within an e-book, the VAT regime will affect these services. And then you get the rather hopeless situation that within one single electronic medium you have two different rates of VAT. It's not a bureaucratic matter, but it's a perfectly obvious issue that we and a lot of other countries will come up with. On this issue of levying VAT on electronic services, I believe that this is a good proposal, among other things. in the case of the music industry. Today, if you download music from a foreign website, you do not pay VAT. We want to give Norwegian websites a greater advantage. That is why it is a good proposal. But in the case of VAT on e-books, I once again stress that the government has not taken a decision on this, and will see this in the context of the Media Support Committee's setting. There are, of course, different assessments in the case. But if the representative thinks I'm going to go into a public polemics and exclusively defend literature policy considerations, almost in confrontation with the Minister of Finance, he can't do much about the government's internal work on charging issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e574	So the proposal is to get foreign companies to register for VAT in Norway. With all due respect, this is an area where the whole market is changing enormously. New actors are popping up. I think you might be able to get some of the big fish, to say it like that, to do it. We also see examples of that already. Those who have companies here pay VAT. But the big picture will be that this is going to invite to piracy. It's going to be a skin solution, where you give the impression of non-discrimination, but where the real non-discrimination isn't going to be there, just because you're not going to get the big international suppliers. What's further problematic about this is that it complicates the process we're in to find good solutions for copyright collection. This pushes the price in addition. It will make it difficult to create good payment procedures for the audience to enter the suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e581	There are basically two questions or comments from the representative. One is the charging system with which we and many EU countries work: it cannot be that European websites can be uncompetitive, for example. in relation to non-VAT countries. I think this is a problem that is not just about what we are doing in Norway, but the representative's comments are just as much about what the Conservative government in the United Kingdom is doing, what other governments and sister parties of the representative are doing in very many other countries. It is clear that we are concerned that a transition to electronic goods should not undermine the VAT regime in total. Then there will be less money for schools, for roads, for cultural policy. The second question is related to e-books as such. Then I would like to repeat my answer: there are strong literature policy arguments for having good VAT systems and low VAT rates or zero rates in relation to e-books. It's part of the government's discussion, where we haven't taken a decision yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e588	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e591	The Minister of Culture is trying to create the impression that the issue of VAT on e-books is not decided by the government, despite the fact that we have just received the second state budget where this is mentioned. And not only is it mentioned, but Norwegian consumers have to pay VAT on products purchased from suppliers in Bangladesh, Mexico or where it might be. So the tax base is expanded, which is the new finance minister's favorite tritual. Yesterday, VG wrote on the leadership position that Anniken Huitfeldt is «the first Minister of Culture to give up the governance of cultural policy to another department». I feel that the answer she gave to Thommes follows up this. Because you started by saying no to VAT on e-books by pointing out that there are problems with demarcation. Then the Right's starting point is that instead of waiting and waiting and waiting, the Minister of Culture will start by saying: OK, we'll start with a book delivered in e-format, freeing VAT, and then we'll have to take the further problems along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e598	That a good procedure in a department is about taking the problems further along the way is at least not a policy that I or the government want to take responsibility for. This is a major discussion in many European countries other than Norway. The conservative sister party of the representative, in Sweden, has the same starting point as the Norwegian government. What we have set out in the state budget is to explain what is today's practice, and that's VAT on e-books. So I say that the final answer to this question is not clear. We need to clarify this with our European neighbours, we need a clearer definition of what should possibly be subject to VAT exemptions, and we need to see this in the context of how the VAT regime should be practised in relation to newspapers. So taking a stand and taking the problems along the way is at least not a procedure that the rest of the government and I want to take responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e607	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e610	The fact that the government has not taken a decision on this question is wrong. We're dealing with one thing here last year. Then the government said clearly: we want VAT on e-books. We want to distinguish audiobooks, paperbooks and e-books. There is no doubt that this has been decided upon. But this has consequences for literature, for authors and not least for the Norwegian language. Now the government will demand that, when you buy at all the globe's electrical stores, you collect VAT, which I would say is completely, completely impossible. The fact that the government will charge more VAT does not surprise me. But what's surprising is that they distinguish between paperbook, audiobook and e-book. I want to remind the Council of State that the e-book is the future. So I have a question: when will the government introduce VAT on paper books and audiobooks, because that's the only thing that remains that there's no VAT on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e620	I almost have to remind the representative that an e-book is more than text. Because if you think that an e-book is the same thing as a PDF file that you read on a computer screen, I don't think the representative has been involved in what is the potential of this media in the future. What is the advantage of an electronic book, e.g. Frode Gryten's novel, is that one, in addition to reading his wonderfully good text, may be able to download music files to the music he refers to, or get small movie clips from the Odda environment, which makes this a completely different and unique medium. It is not simply that there should be VAT exemptions on the written words, while at that moment a movie clip or a music file is being downloaded, a VAT is to be paid. That's why, as I've said before, this isn't a strange discussion. This is a discussion held in all other countries that a VAT regime related to e-books should be consistent and feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e629	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e632	When the printing press came to Europe in the 1400s, it represented a revolution in relation to people's access to culture. Now new technological advances are taking place that in turn change our opportunities to gain access to cultural experiences. That is why it is all the more disappointing that this appears primarily as a fiscal issue in the government. The Minister of Culture now says that the exemption of literature has been an important cultural policy instrument. That's interesting. For today's Business 27 September, State Secretary Roger Schjerva of the Ministry of Finance said: ‘Exemptions are probably the least targeted way of supporting Norwegian literature.’ And he went on to say, «Faithfully, it is more targeted to support each publication with a fixed amount, such as through government purchasing schemes.» So it's not surprising a purely finance-ministerial logic on an important cultural policy issue. Does the Council agree with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance in this opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e649	I believe that we have had a lot of good literature policy tools in Norway, and that is also why Norwegian literature is very strong in Norway and internationally. One is good purchasing systems, which are important for spreading both narrow literature and broad literature to the population of the country. The second is that we have a fixed price for literature, which ensures that there will be a good distribution of books across Norway. That we have good support schemes through the Culture Council is also an important reason why we have good literature in Norway. The exemption from VAT is also one of the instruments that makes Norwegian literature strong both in Norway and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e654	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e657	It is clear that what the government here is proposing is going to plague many citizens, and it is going to be an enormous bureaucracy. But it's also going to plague many in the cultural industries. That is why I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Industry. Very many of the small industries buy small files and use e.g. graphic design, and artists who are seafaring traders, use this type of file, which they buy from abroad. They also have to be charged a huge VAT bill for the purchase of fonts, audio files or other things, because this has to be transferred to Norwegian use. My question is actually also a follow-up to the question I asked the Council of State a few days ago: does the Council of State think that this is going to be a very big simplification, and in terms of our common fight against rules against small businesses, does he think it helps to reduce bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e664	There is full opportunity to ask follow-up questions to another bystander State Council, as long as the follow-up question is related to the main issue. This is obviously the case here, so the Trond Giske State Council is given the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e667	In my and the government's work on simplification, we see that the business world is struggling most when there are unclear demarcation issues, and when there are detailed rules that tell what to do, and what to do outside. The most profitable business is flat, low, wide tax and tax rates. Then it's much easier. I remember, among other things: that when I was Minister of Culture, we changed the VAT on film – we got VAT on cinema. In the past, filmmakers had to answer for VAT on DVD sales, but could not deduct VAT on cinema sales, and had to split input VAT expenditure relative to the source of income – a terrible bureaucracy, uncertain estimates and additional work. So I have to say, on a general basis, that VAT rates include most, but are the lowest possible, which is unbureaucratic and easy to manage both for businesses and for the tax and tax services, the very best thing in avoiding bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e672	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e684	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice who is directly responsible. Question 8, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Question 9, from Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 10 and 11 from Trine Skei Grande and Bård Hoksrud, respectively, to the Minister for Justice, were moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, by Mr Sigbjørn, representative of the Minister for Culture, will be taken up by Mr Åse Michaelsen. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal, Administration and Church on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e707	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The government has introduced legal homework from 1st to 4th grade. The municipality of Narvik has been allocated DKK 338,000 for four months, but as of today only half of the students have been given lessons from the 1st to the 4th stages. What does the Council of State think about it, and will the Council of State ensure that the municipality uses the earmarked resources for homework?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e721	We in the Ministry of Knowledge have investigated the situation in Narvik, and we have been confirmed that today there are three schools in Narvik municipality that have not started a 1–4 homework offer. steps. That, of course, is not acceptable. The County of Nordland is familiar with the case and has notified supervision. The county is now waiting for feedback from the municipality of Narvik and may impose on the municipality if this offer is not in place in a short time. The obligation to provide educational assistance between 1 and 4. Step is municipal responsibility and regulated by the Training Act. The resources of the municipalities for compensation for the cost of homework are not earmarked. It is therefore not defined by the State how much resources each municipality should spend on homeworking if it follows the applicable laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e732	I think it's very good that the council here shows that she's acting, and that she's contacted the county to sort this out, so that the students in Narvik get the same rights as other students. But I have another question for the Council of State. It's about us seeing the government at the state council here underbudging what she's sending out of the grant. As the councillor in Narvik has also stated, there is a lack of 100 000 to 200000 kroner in the new year, and that is before you go into a skyscraper, to be able to implement what you put in as a new law to ensure that you get homework help. So my question to the Council of State is, why don't there be any money with it, when, in the next round, as the Council of State says, you want to use the county to make sure that the municipalities follow the rules? Why doesn't the Council of State spend money, so they're able to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e741	Yes, this proposal is 100 pst. funded, but the funding has been included in the framework. It is financed in such a way that there is to be homework on 1 to 4. step, but the municipality can organise it, for example. to be given one hour on the first step and several hours on the third and fourth steps. It's funded from the same distribution key that we have – or from the same adult density as when we increase an hour – but it's based on a laborer's salary of 25 pst. administrative grants. It's higher than usual if you increase your learning time, because we expect you to need a little bit more professional, educational, guidance on how to do this. But the funding has taken into account that there are 100 psts, so all the children are involved in the homework scheme. We don't know that. Even the municipalities that have worked very well to organize, do not get 100 pst. of the children to accept the offer. So there it is overfunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e746	I hear the council says it's 100 pst. But if we go into the proceeds and see what the Council of State has put forward, you say that you add up to the pay of a trade union worker. Among other things, there are places to put. not money for qualified homework. I have a few questions for the Council of State. I record that she has not spent enough money, and that goes beyond the quite country. The Council of State has also failed to take account of cloud supplements. Why is it not the Council of State that there should be teachers here, but only trade union workers, when SV otherwise says that you should have teachers in place? What is the difference between a 1st and 4th grade child who needs help in class and a child who needs help with homework afterwards? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e753	It's true that we've laid down employee pay, not teacher hours. That's because teachers are barely good. We need more teachers in the future, and we're going to have a big challenge in recruiting. We have also assessed that the teaching aid given under the direction of the school is an offer where at this age it is about repeating, or going through the things that the teachers have been through during the teaching period. It shall not replace the teacher's teaching. It's supposed to relieve the situation at home, because everyday life is very tiring for very many of the smallest children, when they're first in the SFO, then maybe in some leisure activities, and then they start with the homework at seven to eight in the evening – and they're seven to eight years old. So at this age we've calculated that when a tradesman is followed up by a pedagogue, and the hours are used to repeat what the teacher has gone through, it's a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e762	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e765	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the last few months, there has been a great deal of unrest in Haslemoen’s transit reception in Hedmark, among other things. with approx. 30 fire extinguishers, fighting and roadblocking. What will the Council of State do to normalize conditions so that peace and security return both to reception and not least to the local environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e774	The first weeks after arrival in Norway, asylum seekers are accommodated in transit receptions, such as: Receive Haslemoen. Usually, asylum seekers live at such transit receptions for a short time until the applicant is interviewed by the UDI and undergoes an initial health examination. Assessment of the relevance of the Dublin II Code on a case-by-case basis is also part of the preliminary procedure carried out at those receptions. If the applicant is covered by the Dublin Code, he remains in transit and this contributes to a longer period of residence at Haslemoen for some than usual in transit receptions. After Lier's waiting reception burned down and Fagerli's waiting reception ramped, the residents were moved to other receptions. Haslemoen received about 70 waiters. It was at this point that the turmoil and fire attacks at Haslemoen's reception began. The waiters were subsequently moved from Haslemoen and are now scattered at different receptions or returned. Despite this, the turmoil has flared up again. The UDI has provided increased staffing in the reception to ensure safety and security. Furthermore, many measures have been put in place by the operator, including: have reinforced the manning by a safety officer and shall review possible technical improvements in the field of fire protection and control. The UDI and the operator have their own actions around persons in need of additional follow-up, the follow-up of employees has been reinforced by guidance from the occupational health service, and there is an increased focus on the involvement of residents. Norwegian reception must be safe both for those who live there, for employees and for the local population. The Government does not accept that asylum seekers, or persons with final rejections, threaten or commit violent acts. No one should at any time be threatened to stay in Norway. In particular, in order to try to avoid similar situations in the future, the Ministry of Justice has decided to change the waiting regime and to set up return centres or units. These shall initially have the same standard and crew as normal reception. The residents have to make their own food, but they will still have reduced payments compared to residents in reception who have a case for treatment. All persons with a final refusal will be offered accommodation in such return centres, i.e. both families with children and others. Derogations have been made for lone minors who should be able to live where they lived until the application for protection has been rejected. Greater emphasis will be placed on return motivation and return-oriented activities, such as: language, ICT, craft, etc. training This should prevent both passivity, motivation for return, and make it easier for those who return to work after they return to their home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e787	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I believe was complete and correct. I also notice in particular that the Council of State says that the government does not accept that asylum seekers, or persons with final rejections, threaten, or commit, violent acts – that is good. Since I asked that question, there have still been many fire extinguishments – I think it's actually up to almost 50 now. It is clear that for a small community with a small fire service, this is a huge waste of resources. If there should possibly be a fire somewhere else, it says itself that this creates problems. It has also been so precarious that the fire service in Elverum has been called in, at least once. It is clear that this must stop. Lensmann Ingerd Kagnes in Våler also says: ‘We can’t have it that way. The local police don't have the resources to deal with this burden. When the alarm goes off, we have to send all available crews between Elverum and Kongswinger. We don't have many to take off." It's clear that these are serious states, and it's clear that we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e801	I very much agree with the questioner. I think it's good that it's taken up, too, because it gives us an opportunity to make it very clear that this is a behavior that is completely unacceptable. It's criminal acts, and it's acts that put people's perception of as far as the entire asylum institution is concerned. And the most important thing is that it may affect the most vulnerable, i.e. those who live in the neighbouring room, and those who have a legitimate basis for seeking asylum. So I have to say that one of the reasons why we're going into this so badly, to which I've referred, is that this has to end it. I also think it is important what the police and the Foreign Affairs Department have done to someone: react quickly with a criminal reaction, placement on Trandum and then broadcast in cases where broadcast is possible. That's the way to go when we see who's creating these problems in the receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e808	I would like to thank you for a reply. When I stand here, at the same time, I'll give praise to those who work at the reception, I'll give praise to the fire service, and I'll give commendation to those who work within the canteen and the police, because it's clear that this is a new task, but it's at the same time big, and it's difficult. I think they've dealt with this in a good way. At the same time, many in the community are looking at this with some concern, because one is afraid that the unrest at the reception can spread. That's why it's good that people get caught up in these cases, and that those who do something stupid, to say it like that, are punished for it. It also affects those who are completely innocent, i.e. those who live in the neighbouring room, as it was said. I am satisfied with what has been done so far. But I see that both the fire department and the local fire department need resources to deal with this further, because there's still trouble there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e819	I would also like to stress that most asylum recipients in Norway are well-run and have little concerns. We've seen from a police angle that it's not much to worry about. That is why it is so important to be clear when such actions take place. The questioner also has experience from receiving a little further south, where I perceive that the situation is completely different, and where you have few ordnance problems. I must also stress that as far as Haslemoen is concerned, they have done a great job with many asylum seekers at a time. Now the number of asylum seekers to Norway is halved, but in the time when we had many, Haslemoen did a great job. There is reason to pay great tribute to the employees at Haslemoen for a difficult time, and there is reason to pay great tribute to the municipality of Våler, and not least to the office of officers, who have done a good job of stowing this to the best of their ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e826	Now we go to the questions 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e833	I have asked the following questions: ‘The data protection considerations are those that have stopped the project of mapping murder cases with a background of violence in close relations, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the Left’s proposal, Document No. 8:26 for 2007-2008, are followed-up without prejudice to important privacy considerations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e840	I'm very happy to have this question. I believe that this is one of the most important things we can do to prevent perhaps some of the most serious forms of crime, which is not really about visible police, but is about entering people's homes. That is why the proposal from the Left, document No. 8:26, very important, and it is also well described in the government’s action plan against violence in close relations for 2008–2011, which we have called ‘turning point’, namely to identify killing cases where the perpetrator is the victim’s current or former partner. The aim is to learn more about risk factors and to develop measures that can help prevent such killings. There are too many of them, and we have opportunities to prevent them. Therefore, this action plan included the action plan. It has been raised beyond any doubt that in this area – in relation to violence in close relations in general – we need better and more research-based knowledge about the work done and the scope, including partner dropouts. However, research in this field, as in other fields of research, is weighed against the interests of privacy, which is a fundamental value in our society, and which we know Left is very concerned about. In this respect, I would also like to stress the importance of having independent bodies, which are just going to assess ethics and privacy in research. The screening of the killing cases itself was intended to be carried out in the form of two research projects — a quantitative project identifying all cases of partner killing between 1980 and 2008 and a qualitative project of a selection of killing cases — eight to twelve cases — in which the perpetrators are the victim's current or former partner. The quantitative research project was not found to meet the requirements for the data processing of personal data/health data in health and data protection legislation and was therefore not authorised. The project has been evaluated by both the Data Protection Ombudsman of Ullevål University Hospital and the National Research Ethics Committee on Medicine and Health, NEM. With regard to the qualitative project, both the Advocate General and the Research Council, an independent administrative body governed by the Ministry of Justice, have provided access to confidentiality-related information for use in this research project. The Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research Ethics, REK, and the Data Protection Officer of Oslo University Hospital have approved the project subject to the consent of the convicted perpetrators. However, very few of the convicted perpetrators have consented to the use of confidentiality-related information relating to them. The researcher has asked to carry out the research without the consent of the court, but has received a refusal. The complaint has now been lodged with the National Research Ethics Committee for Medicine and Health. These two, both REK and NEM, are appointed by the Ministry of Knowledge and are intended to balance the benefits and risks as well as protect the privacy of research. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e855	The Council of State will probably have the opportunity to continue. But that's something that's a little hard for me to understand. I am very much in favour of the State Council following all the data protection rules that he has to follow – of course – but this requires in a way that all the answers to this are in their files, that it is through the access one should get answers. Had it not been possible to use the access of all the professionals who have worked on these kinds of issues, has – there are many professionals who have been involved in the assessment of much of this – without going into each case, so ask to share in all the experience they have with, all the general knowledge they have gained from working on their individual cases? Had it not been possible to bring knowledge to the ground without believing that personal data and folders should be available? There are many professionals who probably have some thoughts about why we have a culture in Norway where men kill their partners considerably more often than in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e864	What the representative Skei Grande is now pointing to is also an opportunity. In the future, we can be forced to carry out those types of assessments, if you want to have a different device on these projects. So I just want to say that we from the Ministry of Justice and the government have been a little bit cautious about going into those research projects and saying how to do it, for the sake of the researchers' independence. But when we see that there are problems, and if it turns out that in the last project too, we are forced to see if there are other types of methods to map this. There's the good recording by the representative Skei Grande. I also believe that, independently of this, we need to take the initiative to launch a literature study, where we are going to study research from other countries, in order to learn from the research that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e871	Yeah, I think I'm great. We're happy to put good ideas on the left hand side. Perhaps it is that you could get a lot of good ideas about policies in this area, for example. to bring together all the professionals who have worked on this issue, in a joint conference or in a joint book on the subject. Here's what it's about doing to find the political grips. Then I very much agree that the researchers have to choose the method that the researchers want, but we can't wait to find some scientists who get holes in that box. We have to find a policy in everyday life, and we like to contribute to different ways of thinking to get that issue up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e878	It's an invitation I accept with joy. I would like to confirm it in this way that, once we have completed the process of the respective committees on the latest research project, it seems to me that, among other things, it is natural to do so. The left can contribute. I would like to invite you to a meeting where we can look at how we can tackle this further. That's what I'm saying because here we only have common interests. If there's something that shouldn't be partisan politics, it's about how we're going to do this. It is in my utmost interest that we should get better knowledge of this field, and it is necessary. So I would like to be allowed to invite the representative from the left to join when we see that the last process is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e887	‘In the VG on 19 September 2010, it is reported that Westfold Police District soon decided to entrust the investigation to an alert case. The reason was that it was believed that the matter did not belong in Westfold and would require a lot of resources. The matter was therefore dismissed. Is the Council satisfied with the fact that cases where there may have been serious crime are being closed down due to the resources of the individual police district?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e894	Overall, in the case of serious criminal cases, it is absolutely our intention that they continue to be investigated. One of the reasons the government has chosen to spend so much resources on the Norwegian police, prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice that we have done in recent years is to have better capacity to address the heavy issues. That's also one of the reasons why, unlike the previous government, we chose to turn up the recording at the Police College as dramatically as we have done. With regard to the specific matter, I just have to say that it is up to the prosecution authority and the national attorney to ultimately settle such questions. So there's no way I can influence. But I've asked the state attorney to give us a briefing, and I'd like to quote what the state attorney has said about the specific case complex: ‘The case in question concerns a written request from Force Technology Certification AS to Vestfold Police District for the assessment of possible criminal offences. [[FTC]] The attached communication followed a copy of the decision concerning Norweld control service as with several. [[NCS]] When reviewing the decision, the lawyer in charge perceived that the matter was a matter of cheating on certificates and that this ended with the fact that the persons concerned had either been withdrawn from their certificates or received warnings. Reference was made to the judgment in Borgarting Lawyers' Law of 8 October 2010 in respect of claims for compensation and reprisals under the Working Environment Act after the alleged warning of the same critical conditions in NCS. This was not perceived as a warning matter. It was understood that the case was dealt with in the judgment of that court of law. The respondent considered the enquiry from the FTC as a request to investigate whether the parties involved should be prosecuted for the fraud with the certificates. Following a review of the decision concerning the NCS, the respondent decided that the case should not be investigated regarding the possible penalty for certificate jacks. The case was referred to as a question of certificates that were dealt with in the law and therefore did not find it natural with further investigation. An assessment was not made as to whether the case should be sent to the Oslo police district to direct him. With regard to the posting in the VG, it is correct that the case update was contacted by a journalist about the matter, where he told me that the consequences of the fraud, among other things. was that wires had to be excavated as described in the article of the VG. This was a side of the case that was not assessed in the case-law's examination of the documents received. After the enquiry from the VG, the matter was brought up again for review and assessment. This review is currently not completed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e916	I am pleased that the matter is now clearly coming up again, but this is an example of how alerts are met by the public. There is no doubt that the alerter feels this again as an infringement from the public, when one does not follow up the type of serious feedback that the police get. I am very happy that the matter is now being raised again, but it does not help if the Minister of Justice says that more money is being allocated to the police for more resources, when one looks at the fact that in one police district after another, there are cases due to a lack of resources and do not take into account the serious accusations made in reports that are handed over to the police. I am very excited about the continuation of this matter. I know that the Bergen police district has over 60 pst. economic criminal cases that were committed due to a lack of resources in the police in Bergen in 2009. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether he still believes it is satisfactory that this type of serious case is being closed down due to resource problems in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e925	I just have to refer to my original answer and what the state attorney writes, which I perceive is a rather different actual description of this relationship than the questioner uses. I just have to point out that, and I think it's a good thing that the public, the police and the prosecution authorities may be doing something unfair if you're still stuck to the claims that you're facing a resource issue here. All the time you now carry out a review of this complex and what has been done by legal work in this case, among other things. what led up to this judgment in Lawyers' Law, is our view that there is no Norwegian government that has at any time spent more money, trained more policemen, ended a reconciliation queue and made it possible to get into even heavier matters, through investment in Ecocrim and its own financial teams in the districts. I therefore find it difficult to accept the criticism that there should be a lack of commitment to serious matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e932	I have not criticised the police for the resource disposal that the police have to do. I understand. But I record that the Council of State constantly boasts of what this government has put on of extra resources. The problem in the various police districts and the feedback received does not show the reality the Minister of Justice is trying to produce. When one also says clearly, as it says in the VG, that the matter is committed on the basis of resources, and one believes that another police district should deal with the matter, one should at least send the matter over to another police district – the police district that was thought to be the one that was right to deal with the matter and to assess whether there have been illegalities and criminal offences that should have been followed up. So my question is: what does the Council of State say to people who are warning of serious criminal acts, when you see that the feedback you get from the public is that after a short time, without getting involved in the matter, you decide on the matter? So it can actually now look like it's going to be a new assessment. I hope that this will now be taken seriously, that it will be followed up, and that the Minister of Justice will agree that such matters should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e941	What I want to say to those who sit on just this sort of thing and are in the alert position is first and foremost that you should also listen to facts other than what appears in large newspapers. I understand that it does not help the questioner to come up with the facts, all the time he now argues that a review of that matter is being carried out. It has to be done – that's the State Attorney's word. We have to bring some nuances into it, because it might also help those who come with some case to the police and prosecution authority, that you actually know that there is help to get. We don't just see it in the warning field. We see it, for example. in relation to children who are subjected to criminal acts, where there have been allegations of non-help. Now there are many children who address the police and children's homes, and that helps. Then it is important that we, as politicians – and I as the Council of State – also give the signal that there have been significant interventions in the police and prosecution authorities to help more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e946	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e953	My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is as follows: ‘France’s deportation of groups of the space people has triggered an important European debate. Discrimination and marginalisation of the Roma population in several European countries have over time caused major social problems and criminal burden for the group, followed by scepticism in the majority society. Pushing exposed persons from space people from country to country does not provide a solution. Can Norway contribute to a common European space integration policy and what initiatives can and will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take on this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e962	I would like to thank Mr Thommess for an important question in a difficult, topical and sensitive area in many respects. I agree that more needs to be done to solve the fundamental problems of Europe's space. They are often neither socially nor economically integrated in their home countries. The space situation is a common European issue and requires an overall European approach, including Norway. The space situation is both a challenge for this minority — and may be for some host countries. I see that the Council of Europe chooses to concentrate its commitment on improving the health, school and work situation of the spaces. These are important measures by the host countries, but they also require a follow-up from the Roma themselves to make use of these offers. I am pleased that the European Commission and the Council of Europe are committed with strength in a debate to seek to solve old and new injustices against this vulnerable group. Both the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have also contributed greatly to this necessary change of words. The summer events in France have thus raised the issue on the political agenda in Europe – which we can hope will produce concrete, positive results. It is good that the European Commission takes its task seriously under EU law. Basic rights and the right to free movement shall not apply in piece and division — as appropriate for each country. This also applies to Norway. In the wake of the events in France, a so-called ‘Task Force’ was set down in September to examine the functioning of the European Commission’s programme and the efforts of Member States for the integration of spaces. This group has been given a deadline of 2010 to report and propose improvements. On this basis, the EU Commission will present in April next year a framework plan for the integration of Europe's spaces. I also see it as positive that the General Secretary of the Council of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland, emphasises that the situation of the Roma is a pan-European challenge that requires pan-European action. It is therefore positive that next week, on 20 October, the Council of Europe will organise a high-level meeting on Roma integration, in which the EU Commission and representatives of the OSCE will also participate. From the Norwegian side we will participate with the State Secretary in the Ministry of Justice, Terje Moland Pedersen. It will propose concrete measures both at European level and at European level to address the situation of the Roma. Active integration policies require increased interoperability to improve the situation of the space people. The fact that the EU, the OSCE and the Council of Europe will make a concerted effort allows for a real opportunity for such pan-European solutions as are required. This is a process that we will follow closely, and where we will actively contribute from the Norwegian side to the constructive follow-up of the High Level Meeting of the Space People of the Council of Europe. Let me also add that the government has a national focus on the matter. I would like briefly to mention the Government's 2009 Roma Action Plan for Oslo, promoted by the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs. This is designed to develop measures that can improve the opportunities for the Roma to use already established welfare systems in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e981	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and promising response in many areas. The fact that this is seen as a common European challenge, I think, is fundamental. The important thing now is to be able to translate this into concrete actions, into concrete actions. Finally, this is about the possibility of a whole people's self-respect in countries where, sadly, the majority have done their best through history to take it away from them. In our own country, we had a group that we call tattoos. We had an integration process towards those who are anything but honorable, unfortunately. Maybe there's experience in the processes we could pass on, in the sense that here's what you shouldn't do, which is just about what respect you should have for the culture of the space people. An important issue is that this is a group of few or almost no speakers. Is there a perspective the Minister for Foreign Affairs would expect to address?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e990	Let me first say that, in addition to what I mentioned, we have also used, through the EEA funding – I would like to mention it – some resources in some countries to support actions for the space people. Then I agree with the representative Thommes that having respect for minorities is a quality on which society has to be judged – how to handle that mission. I also agree that there are little honorable stories, about both the one and the other minority, in Norwegian history. At the same time, I believe that Norwegian contemporary politics has shown a willingness to address this – address old issues, old sins if you have to say so, in order to address them. I believe that the action plan presented is modern, and it addresses concrete challenges. It's true, as the representative says, there's a group where the figures are harder to identify than many other groups. However, it is also possible to do something through close cooperation and dialogue around the most important tasks — school, work, the kind of integration. So here we have made our experiences, and then we have to learn from the European processes that are now... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e997	An important challenge for welfare societies like ours and like the other Europeans is that part of the cultural phenomena found for a migratory people is difficult to reconcile with fundamental values within us, for example. in-school. It is clear that according to Norwegian values and Norwegian standards, we set certain requirements for what a school should contain and what it should give to the children who are going to go there. That, I would say, puts us on the extreme challenge if we were to four on it or compromise on it in relation to some group. This is a kind of challenge that we might meet in this context, and I want to refer to projects that they have in other parts of the world, where they, for example, are. have school facilities specifically adapted to poor children, where practical reality does not allow them to attend a regular school. Is there a kind of approach that is discussed at all, which could be considered – for example. a school that would pick up people who are traveling?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1004	The Roma are one of five national minorities in Norway, but today we know that people, especially young people, live here with 215 national backgrounds, with parents having, or having, such backgrounds. So Norway's character has changed very quickly in a lot of areas. I agree with the representative Thommessen here that we cannot compromise on the key importance of school – education – to be integrated, whether you have parents who have that background or that background. At the same time, I have experienced that both the welfare community and our school system are pragmatic and seek solutions that can take care of special needs. But there is a value platform in our community that I believe is quite inflexible, and where there must also be a two-way process where minorities – people with a minority background – must also find entrances to these Community platforms, where school may be the most important. I believe we in Norway should stand by that, and it has also proved to be successful until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1015	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘During 2010, there has rightly been great concern about the situation of defence music. This autumn, the corps have been forced to reduce activity as a result of budget cuts, for example: The North Norway Music Corps of the defense, which gathers only for two weeks as an ensemble. I find that 95 pst. by the Defence Music Budget is fixed expenditure, which means termination of musicians by new cut. How does the Council of State see that the Corps will follow up the ‘Culture to Defend’ announcement in 2011 with a further cut in the Defence Department for Culture and Tradition, this time by 34.1 million. kr?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1024	I'm happy for the commitment to the defence music, because we're many who appreciate this very part of the defense. There were budget exceedances in 2009 and therefore this year measures were taken to ensure that the level of activity should be brought into line with the appropriations for the defence music. It is therefore natural that the activity of defence music is somewhat lower this year compared to last year, given that more money was spent last year than it was actually on the basis of. In this work, the Ministry of Defence has given leadership that no reductions should be made in the crews of the musical orps. With regard to the draft budget for the next year, 2011, it is set up to strengthen the defence music by 1 million. kr. It is therefore not right that the music of Defense should be reduced next year. But let me try to explain the number of 34.1 million. kr. to which the representative refers. It has been removed from the table of technical amendments for cap. 1795 Cultural and non-profit-making purposes. The table shows the nominal reduction for the entire cultural chapter. This chapter also covers museum activities and command. Taking into account technical adjustments, the chapter will have a real reduction of 4.1 million. kr. Once again, taking into account the fact that it has to be internalised at the same time, the actual reduction is 2.5 million. kr. I'm the first one to admit that here there's a lot of numbers and therefore a complicated explanation. But what remains is that the defense's music is actually enhanced by 1 million. kr to next year. This is in addition to the 22 million. kr that the music has been enhanced over the last four years. Finally, let me stress that the government's ambition for the defence music is solid and will be developed in line with the intentions of the big news about the defence's cultural activities, which was presented in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1039	The music of defence we agree is an important part of the history of independent Norway and a cultural tax that Stortinget has told us to take care of. That the defense's music with its five crews and x number of employees will be strengthened by 1 million. kr. is not in reality a strengthening. It's a reduction, because it's not enough to cover neither wage nor price increases. It's clear. This will lead, for example, to: The North Norway Music Corps at best will have activity for 20 out of 52 weeks until next year – its anniversary year. Does the Council of State really think that activity for 20 out of 52 weeks is satisfactory and that it is following the decision of the Storing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1048	I think I should be so honest to say that the level of activity and ambition we had in 2009 was too high in relation to the allocation. This meant that the level of activity had to be adjusted, for budgetary discipline and compliance with budgetary frameworks are a very central prerequisite. It is therefore difficult to compare next year's budgetary framework with that of the previous year. For me, it is central to stress that we are following up on the intentions contained in the big message and that we are dealing with the budgetary framework proposed. I think with that we will also realize the ambition that lies in the big message. My hope is that we will also help to further develop the great activity that is being done in our music resorts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1055	That's not how the musicians feel. These are professional musicians who keep them so high-quality that they're actually in demand beyond Norway's borders. For the individual musician, this low activity means few opportunities for development and too low challenges compared to their level. When, in addition, the budgets create uncertainty for the future, the music of Defense risks losing important competences. It melts away as they do not feel that the situation is improving. Will the Council of State ensure that Section 1.1 of the Working Environment Act on meaningful work is also complied with in the Defence Music and ensures the competence we have there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1062	I agree that we have excellent competence here, and that it is important to facilitate its further development. The ambitions have been – and must be – high. I know that there is a very good cooperation with different cultural environments in the communities where our orchestras are present. Finding forms of doing this, which are still within budgetary frameworks, so that we give priority to the activities that the defence obviously wants to prioritise, will be central to the further work. I think we'll have a lot of good to look forward to also in the activity that the corps will have around in our country in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1071	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Company reports that depreciable production equipment in balancing group d is included in the property tax base of some municipalities when taxing property. Does the Council of State believe that such an assessment is in line with the room of action of municipalities under the Property Tax Act, and if not, what will he do to stop such a practice of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1080	The second paragraph of Section 4 of the Property Tax Act states: ‘Buildings and installations shall be taken into account with the work or use when they belong to or are needed for the works. On the other hand, work machines and their belongings and things that can be classed as such shall not be taken into account without the thing being a part of the enterprise itself.» The rule therefore requires the valuation and depreciation of property taxes to include items and equipment related to buildings and/or constructions constituting works and use. This provision applies only to properties that may be categorised as works and uses. There is therefore no link between this provision and the rule in the tax law § 14-41 on balancing group d, to which the representative Fleet refers. Category d of balance includes ‘passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, fixtures, etc.’. Several of these options will, under the Property Tax Act, be regarded as ‘working machinery and accessories’ and will therefore not be subject to property taxes. Typically, movable property will normally fall outside the scope of the property tax. The provisions of the Property Tax Act have been dealt with several times in the legal system. The principles of what is to be taken into account have been developed in the context of the case-law of the European Court of Justice. A central judgment is given in the 1999 Retstidende, page 369, the so-called Bøckmann judgment. The case concerned a company producing insulating glass. The Supreme Court referred to previous judges where it appears that the borderline was based on whether the facilities and the company were so interlinked that they could not be separated in practical or commercial terms, i.e. whether the physical challenges or economic consequences made it less appropriate to move the business. The assessment also included the question whether the building could be used for other purposes. In the Bøckmann judgment, the Supreme Court held that the buildings could be used in other activities without making any changes that would involve disproportionate costs. Machines that were bolted but could be moved without special depreciation should not be included in the printing. As can be seen from this, municipalities will have to make a specific assessment in each case. Where property taxpayers disagree with the municipality's assessment, there will be an opportunity to claim an over-tax. Furthermore, it will be possible to bring an action before the courts for the verification of the validity of the decision of the municipality. Finally, the issue can be subject to so-called legality checks under the municipal law. However, individuals may not appeal against the decision of the municipality in accordance with the latter rules. I have no reason to comment on whether there have been any errors in printing, as the representative fleet suggests. The Ministry of Finance does not have an instructional authority in relation to the local government’s issuing of property taxes, but will be able to comment on interpretation of the law and assess any legislative changes if feedback indicates that this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1096	Thanks for the answer. I would like to start from the last part of the Minister of Finance's answer, because he refers to the Property Tax Act, which says that this should be a part of the company itself. I'm not going to go into the discussion about one thing or the other. I would also like to ask the question of follow-up: if the Minister of Finance is convinced that there is significant discrimination, discrimination and discrimination in the Norwegian municipalities with property taxes, precisely in the borderline between production equipment and the property itself, will he be willing to take a closer look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1103	First, I just want to stress what I said in the answer, that it is the municipalities that are going to make a concrete assessment. But if it turns out that there are different practices, and that in many cases something happens, and it can also be demonstrated that this may have developed a practice that is contrary to the intention in particular. The Bøckmann judgment, of course I'll look into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1108	Then I think the answer is at least a little positive. I like to think that the Ministry of Finance doesn't always think that neither municipalities nor others are the best people to assess things about tax technology, but that they might do the best job themselves. So really, I am pleased that the Minister of Finance will actually use the starting point and the opening that I am attaching to him to look into it – not at the practices of the municipalities and intervene in it, because I am fully aware that you cannot – and that if this really turns out to be a big problem, he is willing to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1113	I really think that was a good answer myself as well. It is clear that in the Ministry of Finance we are always open to looking at things if it may have developed a practice that is not in line with the intentions underlying the law on regulations, etc. What one in case needs is a concrete thing that we can take on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1124	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Competition launching has resulted in the modernisation of the ferry fleet. In the period 2006 to 2013, 20 ferries of 18 riksveferjungschleinung will have been replaced by new buildings. Competitive outsourcing has also had a good effect here. New and often larger ferries require adjusted, extended or new ferries. How does the government ensure a financial framework to ensure that the standard of ferries on both national and county roads keeps pace with the renewal of ferries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1133	Under normal conditions, providers of ferry services shall use ferries adapted to existing ferries. In particular, where traffic congestion leads to the need to install new ferries that are larger than before, it may be necessary to rebuild or build new ferries. Usually this will be known three to four years before a newly built ferry can be used in traffic. It is therefore possible to take into account the need for the conversion or construction of new ferries on the national road network by dividing the economic framework into the national transport plan and by defining the final priorities through the development of the next action programme. In the Swedish Road Agency’s 2010–2013 action programme, priority is given to remedying and rebuilding a number of ferries on the national road network. This will be followed up in the annual budgets. In addition, priority was given to this purpose in the period 2006-2009. Satisfaction between ferries and ferries on the national road network shall therefore be ensured. Municipalities must give priority to the conversion or construction of new ferries on the county road network within their own budget. In this context, I will show that the economy of the county municipalities was significantly strengthened by the administrative reform. First, the frame rate was increased by about 6 billion. as a result of the responsibility for new roads. Secondly, the frame rate was increased by a further 1.1 billion. kr. In addition, state support for racial protection measures is provided on the County Road Network of the Ministry of Transport’s budget, which also means a substantial increase compared to previous years. From 2010 onwards, the government has introduced the system of interest compensation for transport measures in the counties. The transport networks proposed their national transport plan for the period 2010–2019 proposed 250 million. 2007-krona of the frame of the county road network for the first four-year period was to be allocated to the adaptation of ferries. It turned out that it was very difficult to determine the size of the investment needs resulting from the suspension of the ferry service. This will be the case, among other things. the fact that too many of the Faroe Islands wished to make far more extensive improvements than the necessary consequence of the competitive outsourcing. So the proposal didn't get any connection, but I'm going to follow this as a follow-up to follow developments in this field very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1142	I thank you for your answer. When the Council of State in reply quickly comes to the administrative reform, it is correct and important, because a whole of 78 out of 95 former national road ferries have now been transferred to the counties. To say that the economy of county municipalities that have taken over a number of ferry services is significantly strengthened is at least open to interpretation. Of course, it's a pleasure that extra anti-racist drugs have come, but here we are talking about ferries. Is there a ferry section on the county road link that is currently not adapted between ferry and berth? And what measures can the Council of State take to remove such bottlenecks? I want to add that I will not hope that it comes through tolls. We have one example, Årsnes in Hordaland, there 20 pst. of the ferry ticket of 96 kroner actually is toll for the actual berth improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1151	It's my impression that for 2010 the county councils were actually positive surprises compared to the frames they got. I'm thinking in particular about the extra billion that they got in free income. There was also some commitment to setting up an interest-rate compensation scheme that the county councils could have available freely. So for 2011, the extra billion is going to be passed on. It also does the debt financing framework, or for interest-free loans, which were established in 2010, i.e. these 2 billion. If there are currently no holidays up to date, it is up to the individual states now to prove.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1156	Thank you again for your answer. It is true that one of the premises of the administrative reform is that national objectives are to be met, so I wonder if it is a national objective that ferries should also be modernised on the county roads. I want to enter there when the Council of State refers several times to compensation funds, that there are loan funds made available to county councils with initially strained finances, and not everyone sees himself earned, or sees it as possible, to borrow to do a job the state did not do when the state was responsible. So I ask, is it a national goal that the ferries on the county roads should also be modernised? And how does the Council of State see that this can be done within a reasonable time, so that we also get modernisation on the state roads, as we now see that we can get on the national roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1163	Let me first make it clear that we're talking about two types of means, we're talking about loan frameworks within two billion. I'll talk to you in 1 billion. kr, which was passed on from 2010 to 2011, which was originally meant to be a one-time exercise, but which has thus been continued. So to the question of modernisation also of county vegkaians. That's the answer. Some modernisation took place between 2006 and 2009 for some of these Kaians. It is unlikely that more people will be modernised, but it was impossible, at least very difficult, to determine the size of the investment needs, because at the same time one would make further improvements – because of this from year to year situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1174	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Historically, there have been significant differences in appropriations allocated per capita from state to state for road purposes. In the South, for example, one has received less than other parts of the country. What objective criteria are the means allocated to the allocation processes, and will the Council of State take action to ensure that the South Tributes and other states that have been poorly allocated to the State will have the distortions restored?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1183	The administrative reform carried out from 1 January 2010 means that the county councils have been given a much greater responsibility for the public road network by transferring the main part of the former other national road network to the county municipalities. State resources for state roads are allocated through the frame rate. This applies both to investment and operations and to maintenance. As a result of the administrative reform, there were about 6 billion. kr transferred from the Ministry of Transport’s budget to the county councils’ 2010 budget. In addition, the frame edge was strengthened by about 1.1 billion. kr. In addition, approximately 500 million were added. kr in racial protection agents. Own interest-reimbursement scheme equal to 2 billion. SEK in loans per year was established. The distribution of resources for operation and maintenance is based on the State Road Service models for calculating the need for means for operation and maintenance. An important part of the funds for investment was distributed between the counties according to a model based on the criteria road length, population and recorded maturity on the road network. As a direct consequence of the granting of start-up permits to some large investment projects in the 2009 budget, some have specific challenges with large commitments in the future budget. The government suggested that the level of bonds should also be taken into account when allocating funds for investment. In addition, there are about 200 million. have been allocated by discretion to groups with challenges which are not captured in the selected distribution model and which have been misplaced in relation to previous financial years. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has made good progress in allocating funds transferred from the Ministry of Transport’s budget to the framework budget for 2010. The main feature of the distribution model has also been addressed in the 2010 municipalproposition. However, the funds are to be considered free of charge, so that the county authorities can make use of the funds as they wish. As a result of these commitments, a specific breakdown of investment funds up to 2013 has been considered. The funds have been provided for inclusion in the ordinary 2014 framework proposal, based on objective cost keys. Work has been started in the government on this as a goal. A breakdown based on objective cost keys would imply that any division of costs that has arisen as a result of the consideration of, inter alia. bindings, will be fixed. The Riksveg media are not distributed quarterly, but by route/corridor. A discussion about road traffic distribution therefore does not relate to this part of the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1196	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which gives a good description of the situation in the allocation process right now. But it's probably the case that a modern road system is not built in one year, and if we look at the statistics for the past 50 years, and we take 40 out of the last 50 years, we see that for example, the South Trendelag per capita has only got 1/3 of what Sogn and Fjordane have got per capita. As a result, it is then a claim and a belief that the road standard in the South Trøndelag is significantly worse than in most other states in the country. On the basis of that recognition, or, if you may say, the evidence that this is the case, will the Council of State take action to ensure that the distribution of imbalances to which we have been subjected in terms of road appropriations in the South-Tronde Team will be corrected by providing us with extraordinary appropriations in the last year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1201	I don't think I can promise any extra rights here or now, but what I can promise is a careful review in advance of the 2013/2014 budget. I expect that the bonds that were taken into account in the previous round, i.e. now at the 2010 budget, will look different. It is also the intention of an objective cost key to be developed before any inclusion of these funds in the framework bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1206	Thank you again for at least seeing the problem and will do something about it in the long term. But for us who have our work in the South-Trøndelag, the matter is urgent, and neglect seems to increase only through the appropriations that we now see in the next year's budget. For example, I can refer to another aspect of the fact that we are neglecting road appropriations, namely safety. I have a letter from the gentleman in Rennebu who comes with, I was going to say, an emergency call about the situation in the county. He points out, among other things: – and I want to develop that aspect – that a little bit of the explanation of the accidents you see almost daily on the E6 and Rv. 3 in the municipality of Rennebu, you come from roads with significantly better standards in the neighboring counties of Hedmark and Uppland, and you don't manage to moderate your speed compared to that. It underlines the need for a rapid upgrade, especially then of the tribal roads in the southern Tributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1213	All right, first of all, when it comes to the national road means, they're not distributed, they're distributed by route/corridor. That's probably how it's going to be in the future. When it comes to county roads, one in the distribution took into account the bonds that some states had in future projects, and where others did not have such large bonds. And so it's that the South-Trunde team has also been involved in the first 6 million transfers. kr, second, the billion that was in free money, third, the possibility of interest-free loans within a 2 billion frame. kr, and also racial protection agents. But finally, there is a priority within the individual state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1227	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1230	I have addressed this question to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘A number of municipalities in Hedmark have applied for an extended quota for the killing of bear. In a letter to the Ministry dated 1 October, the Directorate has declined. It is fast approaching the time when the bear ‘normally walks in hi’. The procedure takes so much time that a decision is too late. Will the Ministry of the Environment respond promptly to the local request and grant an extended quota for the killing of bears in Hedmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1239	I can confirm that the Ministry of the Environment received an enquiry from a number of municipalities in Hedmark on 5 October 2010, following the preparatory work of the Directorate for Nature Management. The length of the licence limitation period and the amount of the licence quota are subject to appeal. The matter will of course be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Act, and I am aware that a rapid decision on this matter is important because it can affect hunting. As I know, the matter is decided during the day today, and so you will get an answer before the time for hunting is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1246	I thank you for your answer. Then I think we could have made the decision here, as it has to be decided today. I am aware that the Minister of Research does not have this as his primary area, but the research on this is, in fact, below the Council of State that is standing and responding. And if you listen to the research, it's very clear that a much larger extraction of young male bears will not affect either population goals or population development. Observations locally – as has also been said – are very clear that there is a strong concentration and an increase in the strain and observation of the number of animals. At least I would recommend to the Council of State that this be taken back, and that you listen to both what research says, and to local observations, so that the distance from administration is not even greater than it is, because it is big enough as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1255	As I know, the Ministry of the Environment is now working on the decision. If I had known what the conclusion was, of course I would have brought it to Stortinget. So the answer comes in time before the hunting period is over, and I hope that the representative is satisfied with that answer. As regards stock objectives and research on predatory game, it is clear that research has an impact. But it is also important what kind of political decisions have been made, both in the Soria Moria Declaration by the government and also in the thorough treatment that the Stortinget has had by the Robbery Administration. There are quite clear targets that have not been achieved, including: for bear. Of course, I take with me the need to inform about the research that is. But here, too, research is a basis for the purely political decisions which, of course, every government and every big deal must take.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1264	I'm glad that the Minister of Research makes that exact argument, because the Stortinge also said a number of other things in his decision about this, and it's all broken. It's very useful to talk to another government council, so maybe you'll get a little bit of sense in this. The Storting said, among other things: that the load from which it had been greater was to be reduced. It's totally unrealistic, and you can see that there's a concentration in Hedmark. Hedmark has definitely taken its part in the load. It was also said that a two-part objective should be maintained. It was supposed to be grazing and predatory game everywhere. It's also totally unrealistic. I believe that the Council of State has neglected its obligations in relation to the Storting for information. We also hope that the Council of State will take part in the College of Government that it is high time that we had a debate about predatory game built on realistic assumptions. In fact, it is the only area where the Stortinget has actively adopted a policy that reduces the quality of life of some people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1269	It is clear that there is a two-part objective in the case dealt with by the Stortinget in 2004, and it is then actually a responsibility on those who are engaged in the industry, not that it can never be entirely excluded that predators come, but that is the way it is, but one has to weigh the responsibility of business operators against the goals of stocks that have also been set politically. And here's a consensus that there's going to be a stock measure on both the wolf and the bear. None of them has been achieved, and then, of course, it is important, as the representative is involved, to have good regional dialogues, good regional administrations and good practice of both business policy and the overall predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1294	This issue has been transferred to the Minister of Oil and Energy, who directs him, but is postponed to the next Question Time. Questions 10 and 11 were answered earlier in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1303	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education – perhaps this time even more on his own account: ‘In the languages of the throne, the government says that it is essential to invest in the quality and good use of resources in the university and higher education sectors. The size has adopted a new teacher training course with increased professional immersion. It was reassuring that the department initially established a minimum of 20 students at the start of the new teacher training courses. Derogations were granted early in the summer. Does the Council of State really believe that these exemptions are in line with the census and the Storting's desire to ensure a qualitative offer to our future teachers and students?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1312	From the autumn of 2008, the Ministry has been in close contact with the institutions offering the new primary school teacher training. Through a good and necessary dialogue with the apprenticeships, we have clarified the prerequisites for providing the training. It has been important to assess the region’s needs for teachers in schools and in the various years. In a circular dated 20 November 2009, the Ministry stated: ‘If the applicant figures for an education indicate that there will be less than 20 students in a coal, the board of directors of each institution will have to assess whether it is professionally and financially sound to launch the study offer. In such a situation, the Ministry shall be contacted in order to approve, where appropriate, a lower fixation.’;» The real number of qualified applicants was unclear until the end of the summer. The time limit for primary applicants to submit a diploma is 1 July and the outcome of the ‘Restetorget’ at the end of July also affects the admission. At the time when a decision had to be made to withdraw any study offer from the Coordination admission, there were three institutions that were at risk of getting fewer than 20 students to one of their offers. Two of the three institutions had a total of more than 20 qualified applicants for each of the primary school teachers’ training courses, taking into account part-time and decentralised services. The Ministry has had close contact with these three institutions. The places of learning looked closely at how the provision of education could be made more flexible and online, collapsing and seen in connection with the provision of services at other institutions. Following careful professional and financial assessments, the institutions considered the provision of the offers to be sound. This year’s admission was the first in a teacher’s training course with completely new professional and pedagogical requirements. It was therefore desirable to gain professional experience. The institutions also offered services in regions where there is a high need for teachers to be recruited. The Ministry therefore decided to authorise the submission of tenders. At the admission to the next coal, i.e. in the autumn of 2011, I want to insist that there should be more than 20 students for each year's coal in the two primary school teacher training courses to ensure professional quality, professional breadth and economic sustainability. This year's admission experience shows that for several of the institutions it may be challenging to offer both of the new primary school teachers fully if the recruitment is not strengthened, and I would add: if you are not involved in closer cooperation with each other. The need for further concentration and division of labour within teacher training will be regularly assessed. The institutions with critically low search must work hard to get a good number of students, and we will have a close dialogue with the universities about this. It is important to consider new recruitment measures, the use of collective education, online education and increased regional cooperation. This process may lead some institutions to see that there is no basis for making both offers in 2011 or making an offer decentralised or every two years. A follow-up group has been set up to help ensure that the quality requirements can be met here, and I will pay great attention to the assessments provided by the Follow-up Group in its reports to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1330	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was very elucidating. We've had contact with the department to figure out where 20 was set as a target. But we haven't been able to get an answer to how many people had been granted a dispensation, and how many students there were, despite many attempts to obtain that information. Now I see that there are three places, and that one by including all kinds of students might be able to achieve a number that sounds good. I would like to quote something that stands right in front of the state council quoting about the national frameworks. It says: ‘A varied and good job offer for the students requires a sufficient number of students in each coal’ – and then a lot of people talk about presence. It also says that it can't be less than 20 students. These other student groups that have been included, can they be involved in ensuring this quality, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1337	Yes, they can, as long as the individual institution sees the decentralised offer or part-time offer in connection with the full-time offer to the students. All three institutions have more than 20 if you look at the combination of part-time students and full-time students in terms of the total number. We've quite rightly clarified that this is important. I'm going to follow it up very carefully. But it's set up so that the board of directors carry out this assessment, and that, in consultation with the board of directors, we may grant dispensation. I can assure the representative that I am going to be very strict on this, and I will again stress that one thing is to do it alone; another thing is to see the possibility and necessity of closer regional cooperation between the institutions, so that one can jointly, for example. two and two institutions may satisfy the professional requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1344	The Education Committee has been on a comitology mission, including: in Canada. There we heard some exciting statements about how it was to create new offers. It was said that they could create new offers at universities and colleges, but if they were to have state support for it, they had to show that these were offers that were needed around the community and that it was qualitatively good. It would have been exciting to check out in this context, even if there were perhaps fewer places to train these students. But I'm being reassured by what the Council of State says here now. I am very happy that she says that she will follow this closely – and expects that it is also based on what is in the Common Era about efficient resource use in the study places and good study environment, because it is a challenge when they become so few. So if the Council of State promises me that it will follow up and be strict, we have a common understanding and agenda on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1351	I am very happy that we have had a generally strong increase in the search for the new primary school teacher training, when we see the country as a whole. What's the challenge is to be able to offer it all over the country. I am sure that the representative also sees the value of our offers, for example. in places far away from the big cities. And there's some of these places there's talk about in the three institutions we've now given exemption. There are not many offers, and there are long distances, so it is important to keep up an offer and to do everything we can to support it professionally. I can promise that I will follow closely and closely in this important requirement, whether it is about closer regional cooperation or it is going to be about making other types of decisions when applying for a derogation. It is important to me that the professional basis is strong and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1362	This question, from Mr. Tor Sigbjørn's representative to the Minister of Culture, will be raised by Mr. Åse Michaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1365	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Culture: ‘Mandal municipality has invested heavily in the construction of a part-culture house. A thorough preparatory work has been carried out with a view to obtaining the best possible facility at all. The ‘Buen’ project is one of four projects dedicated by the Ministry to a greater interest in the 2010 budget. It is therefore very surprising that we now see that the government's cultural construction effort is not proportionate to not wanting to grant funds over the state budget. Why has the Council of State chosen not to comply with this project, when the municipality has done the right thing at all levels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1374	In the 2010 budget proposal, the Buen cultural house in Mandal was listed among 39 plans and projects for cultural buildings that were not prioritised in the 2010 state budget – i.e. as one of 39. The Ministry clarified at the time that the list was an illustration of the actions that had applied for State grants. In the 2011 budget, the government has proposed 163 million. kr under this item, which goes to national cultural buildings. This is an increase of 5.1 million. kr from 2010. Each year we receive a large number of applications for grants from this budget line. The application stream is much larger than the annual appropriations for the entry. This means that most of the applications, including for the Buen cultural house in Mandal, are not accepted. Grants for the construction projects are usually granted over several years and are consistent with the progress of the projects. In most cases, the Ministry undertakes grants beyond the financial year to clarify the total grant from this item. Like previous years, in the 2011 draft budget, the Ministry of Culture has prioritised grants for projects already adopted in order to ensure their progress, rather than grants for new projects. About 40 pst. of the draft appropriation for the post National cultural buildings go to the Source Theatre and Concert Hall for the South in the West Agder County. So the total of this pot is going to be 40 pst. to the County of West Agder. What is the additional proposal for a new national cultural building, proposed in the 2011 budget proposal, is the cultural historical centre in Arendal. It was the only one built that got a new commitment in the budget that we have just presented. In the Museum Communication, the Ministry stated that the scheme of grants for national cultural buildings will be designed to allow the evaluation of museum projects, provided that the remaining part of the funding is organised regionally and locally. Based on this, the department has prioritised, as I said earlier, a new building for 2011. The substantial part of grants to national cultural buildings in the coming years will go to projects already committed after 2011. The source of the Theatre and Concert Hall for the South remains to grant 253 million. kr in the years after 2011. To East-Agder Cultural History Centre, 76.8 million remains to be allocated. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1387	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it is the case that the State Secretary of the Council of State said to Lindesne's newspaper that it was first and foremost the proximity of Kristiansand – which the Council of State may also confirm in relation to 40 p.m. the funds go to the Source. But then this is something else. This has been part of the area where the government has stated, both through Soria Moria and in other areas, that they will bet on – this by having a broad culture, a rural part-culture house in regions. West Agder consists of three regions: the Lista region, the Lindesnes region and the Kristiansand region. One can see that when a region starts heavy work, qualitatively very good work at all stages – one has an architectural competition, buys the best plot in the municipality, etc. etc. – and going out and shooting, it may be a bit strange that someone is now getting a signal that someone probably would not be able to get money. Is this true?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1396	What projects are promised, we decide in each budget. I even met some local politicians from Mandal for a while back, and they asked me if they could get a signal. Then I said, "No, you don't get a signal." You get a signal when the budget is presented – that's yes or no. The vast majority of those who have searched get no. There are 39 projects on this list, so that getting a commitment to this item is a demanding task. There are many good proposals that are not promised to provide State co-financing for cultural buildings. That does not mean that the proposal is not good, but that means that we have to see this within an overall framework. Overall, the South — if one also calculates Rogaland — comes out very well and collects large funds from the budget line for National Cultural Buildings. I also have a list of several other suggestions that have been requested. I was in Fredrikstad a few days ago and gave the same message there. Clearly, many are disappointed and want money. However, we need to give strong priority to the status of national cultural buildings and to the allocation of this item.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1405	I see that in the evening post yesterday Professor Anne-Brit Gran wrote the following: ‘A very large proportion of the cultural budget goes to the heavy institutions, to theaters and operas, which have a limited audience and which do not seem very inclusive.’ So this is what Professor at BI Anne-Brit Gran writes. Furthermore, she points out that there is no new ‘large grip that could change the basics of the distribution’ from the Ministry. And also: ‘You don’t see any systematic commitment to diversity here, and the inclusion is left to the institutions themselves.’ Isn't support for such a house important for reaching out to other groups, precisely because it's a little different than concerts and operas, which might reach a slightly more narrow group than such a big house does?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1417	My claim is that those who today receive support for the post National Cultural Buildings are cultural houses that contribute to reaching a broad audience. The source is one example of that. East Agder Cultural History Centers is another example. The cultural quarter in Bodø is an example of a cultural building that will reach a wide population, Science Center Østfold as well. So I feel that this perspective, that you're going to reach a broad audience, is very well attended to by the seven posts that are currently supported by the post National Cultural Buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1426	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church: ‘I have addressed the situation of undertakings that may be put out of competition by the national provider Ehandel.no. The Council of State answers that Ehandel.no’s activities are not contrary to the Competition Act, despite the fact that the State has created a significant distortion of competition here, which could threaten both other companies and the State’s own objective of strengthening the e-commerce service. What will the Council of State do to prevent the State aid channelled from distorting competition and at the same time destroying other companies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1435	A report from the State Financial Management Centre shows that by increasing the use of electronic commerce, society will be able to save up to 4 billion. kr during a 10-year period. It is therefore necessary that we reduce the threshold for public enterprises to use electronic commerce. Therefore, in order to give contracting authorities a clear incentive to use electronic tools in the procurement process, the State budget for 2010 decided to grant EUR 19 million. kr for increased investment in electronic commerce. This is part of the government's five-year effort to increase the use of electronic solutions. On the basis of the increased allocation, it was assumed that the trading platform would be more centrally financed. The support is coordinated by the Directorate for Administration and ICT, which manages the Ehandel.no and the Public Trade Platform. I can therefore not see that the same number of public companies would have started electronic commerce if we had not chosen the solution that is now being criticised. In the countries most advanced in electronic commerce in Europe, a similar approach has been adopted as in Norway, i.e. to operate with a common e-commerce platform. The background for this is that, among other things, lack of standardisation. Several platforms will make it difficult to recover the use of electronic commerce, and none will be served. However, diffi is constantly engaged in standardisation, so that a common platform will not be necessary in the future. In order to open a wide-ranging dialogue with Norwegian and European e-commerce service providers, competition for a new E-commerce platform operator was announced and implemented in accordance with the procurement law and the competitive dialogue procedure. Capgemini was awarded the contract because they delivered the most economically advantageous offer. When Divi announced the competition to be the trading platform operator, it was clarified in the tender document that central finance could become relevant. The aid was therefore part of the agreement for which it was competing. It was also a competition where all qualified suppliers of e-commerce platforms had the opportunity to submit offers. In other words, project service, which has been published in several press releases these days, could also submit tenders. The representative Kristiansen asks about how I want to prevent distortions of competition. The answer is that we had a competition when the offer was made, and we wanted one provider of platform services. The competitive tendering process necessarily resulted in those who lost this match or who did not choose to take part in it being unable to provide the service under the same conditions as the winner. I believe that we have put up a good system that allows us to increase e-commerce in the future, and that has been the most important thing for us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1454	I thank you for the answer, but I don't think the Council of State answers either the question or the challenge. This is not about the fact that, for example, project service in Sulitjelma, as her predecessor and former government council pressurised to their breasts, did not submit tenders on the state's own web portal. On the contrary, the point was to strengthen competition and allow project services and others to become competitors for just e-commerce and the solution that the State is pursuing. And the fact that you've granted $19 million. kr on the part of the State was not in order to create a monopoly which could help kill the competition and encouragement needed to bring about competition, more efficiency and profit. In what is the country’s sovereign largest purchasing situation, that is to say, to contribute to the efficiency of purchases in Norway of more than 300 billion. kr, is what you are doing now, to contribute indirectly by providing support to those who choose a particular company, giving priority here, and then you take the life of what is of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1461	I do not agree with Mr Kristiansen's analysis. The trading platform is a public offer, but towards the trading platform there are a number of providers providing services. Today, there are 62 public enterprises using the trading platform. Of these 62 public enterprises, only two are using Capgemini, which operates the trading platform – the others are using other suppliers that then provide services to the trading platform. If we were to have what the representative of Kristiansen proposes, we would have to say in large-scale documents that we would create more e-commerce platforms. I believe that would have been unwise. It had not helped to increase the use of electronic commerce, which is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1466	I just more and more disagree with the reasoning of the Council of State, which helps to kill what could have been the result at the end, and which was wanted by the Stortinget: a more efficient procurement procedure, and which can provide advice and guidance. This must at best be a front-end collision with the Norwegian competition law. This has evolved over two weeks now. For example, we see that Project Service has already lost two customers who point out that they are being stimulated by the state with up to NOK 200 000, in order to choose the country's own solution. This does not strengthen competition, and this is a front-end collision with Norwegian competition and international competition law. So my final question to the Council of State is whether she is at all interested in finding solutions that develop competition in this area, instead of suffocating competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1473	As I said, I am concerned that we are going to have an e-commerce platform in Norway. It has also joined the Storting. We briefed the Storting last year that we should spend money establishing an e-commerce platform, Ehandel.no. Then it's up to many suppliers to join and deliver services into that trading platform. But until there are international standards that allow us to possibly walk between the different e-commerce platforms, I insist that it makes sense that we have an e-commerce platform that the public can use. But it is free for anyone who delivers purchasing practices and e-commerce systems to use that platform. Fortunately, there are many other companies that provide services and use the trading platform in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1482	This question, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal, Administration and Church on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1485	I'm glad someone can answer my question, and I have the following questions: ‘There are now negotiations between Norway and the EU, on the one hand, and Iceland, on the other, on the fixing of the mackerel quota to be taken by Iceland in the North Sea. This seems to be very demanding negotiations all the time that it may seem that Iceland has unrealistically high expectations for what they can take out of the current mackerel stock. Can the Council of States explain to what extent Norway and the EU share a common strategy in these negotiations, and what action will be taken if the negotiations fail?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1494	Let me first start by clarifying some inaccuracies in the question. The mackerel negotiations this week take place between five parties. Norway, the EU, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands are coastal states of the population, while Russia participates as a remote fishing nation and a member of the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission. The mackerel population is concentrated along most of the European Atlantic coast and in large parts of the Norwegian Sea. This does not apply to Icelandic fishing in the North Sea. Negotiations are about establishing a comprehensive and long-term administrative regime. The aim is to ensure sustainable harvest of the stock, predictability of the parties and maximum overall yield over time. The percentage distribution of shares in the population, as well as access to each other's zones, are the main elements of the negotiation of an agreement. It is true, as Mr Nesvik says, that there are very demanding negotiations. And since they are going on right in these days, it would be unwise to go into the details of the Norwegian negotiating strategy. Together with the EU, we have responded to Icelandic demands that we believe are unrealistic and lacking scientific justification. We have also reacted to the fact that both Iceland and the Faeroe Islands this year have granted large increases in their own quotas that can be fished in their own economic zones. We want a balanced and comprehensive agreement, but will not allow us to press for a solution as a result of the irresponsible behaviour of other parties along the way. I can assure you that there is close contact between Norway and the EU in this matter, including: in view of the fact that, earlier this year, we concluded a bilateral agreement with the EU on just mackerel. I do not want to forge possible consequences if we do not succeed in reaching an agreement in this round. But the work for a solution must continue, as fishing at irresponsible levels would be harmful to the population and unprofitable for all parties in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1503	I can assure the Council of State that I know very well which parties are currently sitting and negotiating. I can also assure the Council of State that I have been involved in the issues related to this, so you can not be a teacher in the answer. The background that I refer to Iceland and the negotiations that are going on with Iceland is precisely the specific aspect of the high demand that Iceland has placed on the table in connection with this. That's what the matter is. It is not about Russia as one party or the Faeroe Islands as the other, although the Faeroe Islands also have relatively high expectations of what they should be able to take out of the population. It is the Stortinge that adopts the fisheries agreements. It is this hall that will adopt it – it is not the government. The government negotiates on behalf of the Norwegian people, and then the Stortinget adopts agreements that Norway enters into with other countries on the fisheries side. My question to the Council of State is the following, and I repeat the question: Is there any common strategy with the EU, or are there just consultations? Is there a clear strategy on what we want to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1514	As I said, Norway has had close contact with the EU in this matter, precisely because we have concluded a bilateral agreement with the EU on the distribution of just mackerel. There has therefore been close contact between Norway and the EU in this matter. We are concerned that we should have a scientific basis for any changes to the agreement. In these days there are negotiations and there is also time for a new debate during November. We hope that we can find a good solution that all parties can accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1519	There is a big difference between having close contact with the EU and having a common strategy with the EU and what you want to be the goal once the agreement has been concluded, but I understand that you will not give any further answers to it, and we will accept that – and take it in other forums. Norway has one-sidedly introduced, inter alia: a landing ban for mackerel, in relation to precisely what has to do with the disagreement relating to the allowances. My question to the Council of State is this: has the so-called close contacts or regular contacts with the EU addressed this: will the EU also ensure that landing bans are imposed in order to have a common front against this fishing? It is relatively common to agree on what is the common stock and biomass associated with the mackerel. What you disagree about is how much each country should be able to take out of that biomass. If someone takes out more, others have to take out less. Will Norway take out less of its share if Iceland takes out too much?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1529	As far as the landing ban is concerned, we have a law in Norway to have a landing ban, as the representative Nesvik says. I understand that the EU does not have the same legislation and the same access to it, but that the industry has refused to buy fish from Iceland and the Faeroe Islands in the context of the situation that has arisen, so that it has operated in a somewhat similar way. But the European Union does not have the same legal base as it does in Norway. So I agree that it's important that you have good knowledge of the population, so that you don't overtake it. If Norway is to change its quotas and its withdrawals, it will be part of what is to be negotiated and to which we must come back when the negotiations are concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1536	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1548	Under the Rules of Procedure, the Council of State has a speaking time limited to 1 hour. The President has reason to believe that maybe not all the time is spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1551	In a country where healthcare is provided as much resources as in Norway, we should be able to expect patients and users to be of high quality and not to have to worry about causing unnecessary harm to us. Patient experience studies also show that the majority of patients are well-satisfied with the services they receive at our hospitals. Nevertheless, we have examples of adverse events in which patients have been exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable risks. International studies estimate that about 10 per cent of those admitted to hospital are unnecessarily injured by the treatment given. Although our healthcare system ranks among the best in the world, we have to assume that Norwegian figures are not significantly better than this. Unwanted events are, of course, primarily tragic for those affected, but will also help to weaken the reputation and the people's confidence in our hospitals. Although we will never get there that there is no mistake, the work on making services safe, accessible and of good quality will be one of the most important tasks of the time to come. There are in particular three events that have received attention in the last year and that are the background to this statement: there are cases concerning the handling of waiting lists at the West Viken health care company, cancer operations at the Nordlandssykehuset Health Enterprise and the situation at the State Medical Authorisation Office. There have also been other serious events that have made an impression and have led to action at system level. I want to update the status of these cases today, and then explain what measures I have taken and will take to strengthen the work on quality and patient safety in healthcare. In January this year, the Ministry of Health and Health became aware of allegations of several breaches of the waiting list management and patient follow-up procedures at the surgical department of the Hospital Asker and Bærum. Vestre Viken health company informed the Health Authority in Oslo and Akershus about the matter last December. In its internal audit, Vestre Viken concluded, among others: that patients were not invited to check and follow-up when they were going to, that dates for the treatment period had changed, and that many patients had not received sufficient information about their rights. The case was reported to the police on 25 January this year, and on 16 July the police took a preliminary look at Vestre Viken health care companies for not having organised the business so that health professionals can provide proper health care. When I became aware of the allegations of a breach of procedures, I immediately asked Health South-East to explain the actual conditions to make sure that all the necessary measures were taken to clarify the reasons and correct the errors. In order to clarify whether the events at Vestre Viken health companies could indicate system failures in several health companies, I requested in the business meetings with the regional health companies in January that all health companies review their referral management procedures. In this review, findings were not made as to the fact that there was systematic manipulation of the treatment period. A large number of cases have been examined in all regions and it appears that the deadline has changed in 0.07 to 1.5 pst. of the cases. I am aware that Health South-East has had and still has close follow-up in the West Viken case. Health South-East has informed me that all the patients involved in the waiting list case have been followed up. The board of Vestre Viken has adopted plans to ensure that references are processed in accordance with the legislation. Vestre Viken has taken several measures to avoid future deadlines, including: additional resources have been allocated to the Bærum Hospital Department, extended training in the use of electronic patient records and improvement of written referral management procedures. Vestre Viken is well in the process of implementing an action plan based on recommendations and findings from the audits carried out, as well as on observations and analyses made in the case. The action plan has a two-fold objective: it shall show which conditions are corrected by the surgical department of the Hospital Asker and Bærum. In addition, it shall demonstrate how the experience from the surgical department is to be used for learning and improvement in all parts of the West Viken. The action plan focuses on establishing and ensuring good working processes after the referral has been received and evaluated, until the treatment has been given. It also includes measures to improve internal control and control. Employees shall be provided with training in the assessment, prioritisation and convocation of patients. The action plan is followed up by the Management Board of the health business through monthly reports from the Executive Director to the Management Board. Most of the actions in the action plan referred to shall be completed by the end of January 2011. Health South-East has further assured that the findings and measures contained in the audit report will be disseminated to the whole group for, inter alia, ensuring that the learning effect is exploited by a good dissemination of the experience gained from the waiting list case at West Viken. The second matter I want to explain concerns the Nordlandssykjehuset healthcare company. Patients have been known to have been operated on for liver cancer and pancreatic glands at the Nordic Hospital in Bodø in violation of the Health Nord guidelines for such operations. Questions were asked about the quality of treatment, among other things. because it turned out in retrospect that some patients did not have cancer. The 2009 mission paper asked regional health companies to review which entities carry out cancer operations. In its feedback in the 2009 annual report, Health Nord RHF reported that the surgical treatment of various cancers was centralised from 2005. According to the guidelines, cancer of the liver and pancreas should only be treated at the University Hospital Nord-Norway in Tromsø. In July, the Board of Directors of the Nordlandssykehuset decided that the work on enhanced patient safety and systematic quality work should be the main steps to restore confidence in the hospital. Following this, the Management Board adopted in September a 10-point list of actions, including: management development measures focusing on patient safety, the introduction of patient safety visits, the use of checklists and local quality indicators. The last matter I want to explain is about matters at the State's Health Care Authorisation Office. In the 2010 State Budget, the Ministry of Health and Welfare briefed on the increasing volume of false documents related to authorisation treatment. In order to assist in the establishment of systems to clean up this engaged authorisation office two consultants in the autumn of 2009. The task they were given was to provide assistance related to the establishment of a system for the verification and verification of applicants for authorisation as healthcare professionals in Norway. In this work irregularities were found in a few cases. The consultants also commented in their report on issues related to the poor working environment in the authorisation office. I therefore called the Health Directorate, who is the district administrator, and the authorization office for a meeting in May this year. The Directorate-General for Health started a wide-ranging review of the activities of the Agency to ensure that the authorisation of healthcare professionals is carried out in a safe and secure manner. It appeared in the summer that the Administrative Manager of the Authorisation Office has falsified his own diploma from several educational institutions. She resigned her position with immediate effect when the matter became known. I have assured myself that the normal handling of the ordinary authorisation matters is normal. There has been regular contact between the Ministry of Health and Health during this period. I am informed that efforts are being made to improve internal procedures, that the Health Directorate has intensified the governance dialogue, and that measures have been implemented in relation to the working environment. The Directorate for Health, in dialogue with the Ministry, has assessed the need to carry out an external review of the establishment. An external audit firm implements it. This review shall be completed on 1 November of this year. I will also briefly mention the matter of the waiting lists at the University Hospital in North Norway. In the spring it became known that several patients in urology and endocrinology had waited longer than suggested date. These were patients who were considered not to be rights. The case has become known through the media and is now being assessed by the Health Authority. Health Nord has informed me that the patients concerned have now received the necessary examination and treatment. In addition, Health Nord has put in place several measures concerning the handling of referrals as a result of this case. The things I have explained have made it clear the need to strengthen work on quality and patient safety. Patients should not have to worry about whether they are called in quickly enough for investigation or treatment, whether the hospital has sufficient competence and experience to perform operations, or whether health professionals have the necessary skills to do their job. I get many letters and enquiries about patients that point out deficiencies in quality and patient safety. At the same time, we see examples of hospitals that have thought new, really tackled the problems and got a strong quality promise. Akershus University Hospital is a good example of a health company that has achieved good results through active quality work. Through targeted measures, Aarhus has reduced the number of injuries by 43 pst. during the period 2007-2009, and at the same time have very low cases of hospital infections. Regional health businesses have put quality and patient safety at the top of the agenda. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight Health West and Health South-East, which has had a systematic approach to work at regional level for several years, and which has implemented many new measures and projects. Patient safety and quality in healthcare are an important issue for the government. I have therefore launched 10 measures to strengthen work in this area. These proposals include, first, the legalisation of requirements for systematic quality and patient safety work in healthcare. In addition, as mentioned earlier, I would like to suggest moving the administration of the notification scheme under the Special Health Services Act §3-3 from the Health Authority to the National Unit for Patient Safety at the Knowledge Centre. The reporting system shall fulfil both learning and supervisory purposes. Both the World Health Organisation, the Council of Europe and the EU recommend notification systems with learning objectives, independent of sanctioning authorities. One of the objectives of moving the notification system is to create a lower notification threshold. The notifier does not need to consider whether the notification could lead to penalties by the Health Authority. If the reporting frequency increases, one could gain more knowledge about risk areas and their causes. It's human to fail, but we can't allow mistakes to happen again, and we have to learn from the mistakes we make. By having direct access to notifications, the National Patient Safety Unit will be able to assist hospitals with root cause analysis and specific advice and solutions following an unwanted incident. As the Stortinget has previously been informed, there is a separate call-out unit in the State Health Authority to be deployed in the event of serious incidents in hospitals. In the first instance, this is a two-year testing scheme. In the context of the establishment, the specialist health service is required to notify of events with serious outcomes, i.e.: death or significant damage in addition to that in which the risk is calculated. The warning shall be issued no later than the following day after the event has occurred. At an alert, the caller obtains supplementary information and assesses whether the event requires supervisory follow-up. Factors such as complexity, unclear event conditions and signs of failure will be essential if the Health Authority is to move out. The unit has now been in function since 1 June. During the period from 1 June to 30 September, the State Health Authority received 37 alerts. Four out of the 37 alerts have resulted in a call-out, and about half of the alerts have been transferred to the Health Inspectorate in the county that has opened a custody case. The four events that have resulted in a call-out are cases of fatal and unexpected outcomes and complicated sequences with many involved actors. This makes it difficult to identify the course of events. People should always be offered a call. The cases are now being dealt with by the State Health Authority. These expressions are carried out by a team that is particularly competent in relation to what the event is about. The impression of state health care is that both the service and its relatives are well received. The supervisory added value of the calls is more rapid in clarifying the course of events than in normal written proceedings. Good accessibility characterises good quality healthcare. In my dialogue with regional health companies, I have been clear that the waiting time in the specialist health service should be reduced and that deadlines are unacceptable. The feedback to me is that this works well both at regional level and in health businesses. The case mentioned by Vestre Viken has highlighted the need for good waiting list management systems and the need for patients’ needs and rights to be at the centre. From the New Year, I want to introduce monthly follow-up of the waiting time development in hospitals. There have been questions about whether patients are getting good enough information from hospitals about deadlines and rights. I have therefore, in a letter dated 28 January this year to the regional health companies, reminded them of the health companies' obligations under health law and the care-related responsibilities of regional health companies. Furthermore, in a letter dated 20 September this year, I have clarified the health care companies' obligation to provide information and proper treatment where health care companies see that the time limit for treatment will be broken. A key prerequisite for good quality is that services are based on the best available knowledge. In recent years, the Health Directorate has published several national prevention and treatment guidelines. For example, 9 cancer treatment guidelines have been published and 16 new ones are under preparation. For some disease conditions, results have been shown to improve if treatment is combined on fewer units. This applies, for example: cancer operations. The case at the Nordlandssykehuset has highlighted the importance of having clear guidelines on which hospitals should be able to perform different cancer operations. In the mission document of the regional health enterprises for next year, I will demand that regional health enterprises have systems to ensure that the adopted functional distribution in the region is actually followed up. Quality measurement and comparison of results are an important part of systematic quality work. I want more quality indicators for measuring quality. Norway has participated in the OECD quality indicator project and in the Nordic Council of Ministers’ quality measurement project. The projects have developed proposals for quality indicators in several areas, including: for patient safety and patient experience, which could be an important basis for the development of several national quality indicators in Norway. Good records are needed to obtain good indicators. Proposals for a strategy for the modernisation and coordination of central health records and national medical quality records have been consulted and will be established during the autumn. The aim is to obtain an appropriate number of common registers for the major disease groups and to make better use of data in existing registers. The case referred to by the State Office for the Authorisation of Health Care Professionals has highlighted the importance of ensuring the competence of health professionals. There must be good systems in place by the authorities as well as good practices by employers for quality assurance of health professionals’ backgrounds in the context of employment. In a letter to regional health businesses in March of this year, the Ministry has clarified that enterprises must be conscious of their responsibilities as employers and have good systems and procedures in their recruitment processes. The Health Directorate also develops a guide that health care employers can use in support of additions. The feedback from regional health enterprises suggests that considerable efforts have been made over time to put in place good recruitment practices to ensure that health professionals have the necessary qualifications. Measures are being taken to improve access to cross-border information exchange with a view to improving patient safety. Last but not least, I want to strengthen the work on quality and patient safety in a joint lift through a national patient safety campaign starting in 2011. The Specialist Health Service will be required to participate in the campaign through the mission document. Local health and care services will be invited to participate. The campaign is based on selected risk areas such as: drug management and infections and take effective and effective measures. Some of the measures that will be applied in the campaign, such as: systematic journal review and WHO checklist for safe surgery are already in use in some hospitals. Through the campaign, the aim is for everyone to apply these measures and that these activities will contribute to a health care safety culture at all levels. The campaign results shall be measured. Interaction reform will be an important contribution to improving the quality of healthcare. Better organisation of specialist health services and community health services — and cooperation between them — will improve the quality of individuals. Quality and patient safety will also receive a particular focus in the new national health and care plan. The aim is that individual patients and users can be provided with safe and secure services that are available, based on the best available knowledge and adapted to individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1637	The President will now propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a final statement by the Council of State, in line with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1642	It is very good that the Council of State has taken the initiative in this presentation of the Storting, because there are very serious incidents that have been revealed in the three cases that are the starting point for the presentation. Everything must be done to prevent defects and deficiencies in the health sector. In any event, it is important that a quick look at how to reduce the adverse effect on patients and prevent similar errors later. Patients in Norway should feel confident that the health services they receive are of the absolute best quality. Norway has one of the world’s best health services. Public funding ensures equal and equitable access to healthcare for all. However, if the vast majority of patients in Norway are well satisfied with the services they receive in Norwegian hospitals, we have, like other comparable countries, for many events where patients are injured — and even die — by mistreatment or lack of follow-up. Patient safety shall be of the highest priority. In its statement, the Council of State has stressed the seriousness of these events and taken the necessary steps to prevent the emergence of new cases. Of course, the risk of harm and mistreatment in healthcare can never be completely eliminated, but it must be an objective to lower it to an absolute minimum. The fact that patients become victims of adverse events due to routine failure, slurry, mismanagement or lack of documentation can never be accepted. The main health care system and associated authorities can do is learn from their mistakes. Good practices for reporting non-conformities are essential for developing better practices and learning from errors. There is not necessarily a correlation between few findings and high quality. It might as well be the other way around. Hospitals reporting many deviations in their quality system may actually have better quality than hospitals with fewer abnormalities. How the different hospitals end up in such statistics is largely a matter of good or bad reporting practices, and does not need to draw a picture of good or bad practice. Hospitals with an open reporting culture and proper routines can be more able to put their anomalies into a system where you can learn from errors and achieve higher quality as a result. We know that there are variations in this area today. This work needs to be improved. At the same time, national registers need to ensure that such learning becomes national and, indeed, would also be of international benefit. We need, as the Council of State was about to do, a better reporting frequency to increase knowledge. We support the Department and the Health Directorate that there is a need for a change in the reporting system, with focus learning, and that contributes to the reporting of several unfortunate events. We think it is very good that the National Health Care Knowledge Centre prepares the National Patient Safety Campaign – as it is called – starting in January 2011, as stated by the Council of State in its presentation. When the campaign was launched in September, the director of the Health Directorate, Bjørn Inge Larsen, pointed out that the last decades have become increasingly complex and demanding to lead the Norwegian health system. Better procedures and systems have been needed and management ‘takes responsibility for the whole’. Bjørn Inge Larsen continued: ‘The management must also be concerned with the health profession, the quality and safety of patients. It is not enough to concentrate on the economy and production.» I very much agree with that. It must be cleared of responsibility between professionals and management, and responsibility must be anchored in the line. There is a need for several quality indicators to show professional results and for indicators to show patient safety. I both hope and believe that the on-call campaign will be an important contribution to reducing patient injury. I have the sense of the approach that lies in this campaign. At Vestre Viken health companies, the review showed that no system manipulation had been done with the treatment deadlines. It is so far positive, but not sufficiently reassuring, which means that health south-east is still following the development of the argus eyes. However, as the Council of State briefed on, referral procedures have improved, letters to patients should be simplified, there has been extended training in the use of electronic patient records, and the Bærum Hospital department has been provided with resources. I am not going into the extraordinary and special situation of the State's Health Care Authorisation Office. The Council of State has given a thorough and good account of it. As regards the case of the cancer operations at the Nordlands Hospital, there has also been a serious failure here. We are now aware that several managers have resigned from their position, and the matter is being dealt with by the Health Authority. Finally, I would like to say that I will certainly express compassion for patients and affected in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1669	I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. There is a cross-political consensus that we want a safe and healthy health system for everyone. Then we're dependent on avoiding such big things as scares. It's important that people trust the health system. If you lose your trust and get scared, you get sicker too. I knew very much about it when the case in Asker and Bærum came up, because I myself had been through a long process with someone who was standing close to me, and who died of cancer there. I knew all the thoughts that ran through my head in the period we were through, and wondered if we had been among those who might have been affected that time, and I thought that there were probably many who put the same thoughts that I did. It wasn't all right. The statement to the Minister of Health shows that this is a terribly complex matter. There are so many things that have to clap. There are a lot of people around each and every person, and everyone has to do things right in order for nothing to be wrong, so I agree with the Minister of Health that we can never protect ourselves 100 pst. But I want to remind you again of what the Health Service said to us in our meeting, that if we had learned from the mistakes we had made before, there would not have been any new mistakes, but we are not good enough to learn. On February 15th, the report came from the health regions, and I was in a debate in News Day 18 with the Minister of Health where she could tell that the review that had been carried out showed that it was not wrong elsewhere. In that debate I expressed some scepticism and concern about this found, because all the individual requests that I received, and get, were not quite in line with the figures of the Minister of Health. I also said that we in the Progress Party were not satisfied that this should only be an internal review and that we wanted an external review. On 13 September at NRK we could hear about a person who has developed prostate cancer while he was in line for a year of investigation at the Urological Department at the University Hospital of North Norway. So he was one of 450 patients who had been forgotten and who had not been called in for investigation. Then my question is, why didn't you find this when you had this internal review of matters? On October 7th, VG could write about the 62-year-old who had waited four years to be called in for control after a brain tumor operation. Molde hospitals admit that everyone who was to be checked before 31 December 2008 had been removed from the waiting lists due to burst capacity. Molde hospital said that the 62-year-old should have masted and reminded himself a little, for those who had masted and reminded had not been forgotten. The question is, was the internal review good enough? Why didn't you find these things when you had the internal review? The Progress Party has proposed an external review of our healthcare companies. The government has not wanted that, but I still believe that it is necessary. The Minister of Health has now presented a ten-point plan and will certainly follow closely up the matters we know. I'm very concerned about the things we don't know, and that we don't have a health care system that depends on people massaging and reminders. Finally, I would like to add that the weekly management paper wrote on 17 September about patient safety and that much of the reporting is being pushed away on the way up the system – up to the leaders. It is a doctoral thesis on patient safety and health management that has been presented in this context. As for the Minister of Health, I believe this is a very important matter to follow up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1688	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the presentation. I still believe that what I meant in the interpellation debate that I raised on this topic on 2 March is that the Minister of Health is still impressed by the fact that this is treated as a single event in the healthcare system, and not as a result of a system failure. I believe that not least the issues also referred to by the representative Kjønaas Kjos in his statement show that these are issues that cannot be isolated for individual incidents in individual hospitals, but that is the result of a misguided policy over several years. In my opinion, the reason for developing a culture — or a system — linked to not taking quality work seriously is based on two essential factors. One is that there are insufficient national requirements to have good enough quality assurance systems at our healthcare institutions. The Minister of Health now shows that there will be a few more demands in this area – that is good. This should have come a long time ago, which has been proposed and voted down by the Right. However, the situation at the Hospital Asker and Bærum shows that good quality assurance systems are not sufficient if patient safety and quality work are not adequately anchored in the management of the business. That means that the other major area in which it has failed is management, from the top, that is, health ministers from the previous red-green government and down to directors and directors. It is completely impossible to ensure quality work in these types of activities if not management, from the Minister of Health and Down, has the same focus on quality assurance as on financial management. We believe from the Right that the management of health companies under this government has been too much influenced by having a focus on financial control and too little of focusing on quality work and patient safety. It has been said that good financial management is a prerequisite for good quality work, and I fully agree with that. But good financial management does not automatically lead to good quality work, on the contrary. You have to focus on the corresponding ratios. In good contact with many who work in the business and with many who are in the board of directors, a very good person knows that the quality of the work on time and management is not given sufficient priority. As a result, this type of event will arise, because the emphasis on management will also be placed on employees. As a result, this work on patient safety and quality is not given sufficient emphasis. This is a political responsibility for this government, which has been responsible for this system over the last few years. With regard to the proposals that the Minister of Health agreed on how this should be followed up, I would like to comment on two of them. One is the proposal to amend the notification system, which is, in fact, a scandal, because when the Stortinget dealt with the previous national health plan, clear guidance was provided for the notifications through the Section 3-3 scheme to be forwarded from the Health Authority to the National Unit for Patient Safety and Quality Work. It has not been done, and the Stortinget has not been informed that this has not been followed up. The Minister of Health then responds by suggesting that these messages should not now be addressed to the Health Authority. I believe that would weaken the work of the Health Authority and the ability to follow up the safety work in the hospitals, not strengthen it. I think it is positive that the Minister of Health has taken the initiative of an exclamation unit, but we believe, together with the Christian People's Party that has proposed this, that it will also be necessary to try out a model with an independent commission after the model of the accident commission one has in the transport sector in this important area. More people die in our hospitals than die in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1699	I would first like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and thorough presentation. Patient safety and quality in our hospitals must have the absolute highest priority – there is a broad consensus here. Patients enrolled in a hospital must be assured that they are properly treated in the appropriate hospital by qualified personnel. Patients who are being treated and who are being called for treatment for serious diseases should be safe to be called in on a timely basis both when they are going to treatment and after, when they are going to be monitored. In this area, we have nothing to do with – it is absolutely vital for the public’s confidence in health services. That's why the events we've had, which are mentioned here today, created uncertainty, whether the security we expect is good enough, and whether we have the quality assurance systems in our hospitals that need to be there to prevent mistakes – and if there's any mistakes, make sure that it gets caught up in it right away. I must say afterwards that the way in which this was handled, both by the management of the health companies, the hospitals, the Health Authority and the Council of State, has been good and satisfactory. It has been comprehensive, powerful and proportionate to its severity. This has helped in many ways to give confidence that this type of event is well understood. That the reaction modes have had such an extent, I will give credit for it. There have also been consequences for the hospitals where the events have occurred. I am also pleased that the focus is now on patient safety and quality in an even stronger way than before. The ten-point programme presented by the Council of State is a confirmation of that. The representative Bent Höie focused on and asked if there is anything about the structure and the whole system that has contributed to this, and on which one needs to focus. I have earlier, and then this becomes a final question to the Council of State, asking questions about how we finance hospitals – this effort-driven funding, this unit-price system, payment per patient, that something is more profitable than other things – can have a connection with these events that we have witnessed. I do not advertise that there should be some sort of excuse, but I only ask the question whether in the reports and the analyses that have been done you can see if there is any connection. In that case it will be very serious. It's got to be the end and my question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1714	I would first of all like to thank the Minister of Health and Care for a thorough assessment. The statement tells me that the situation is being taken seriously, and that the three special events mentioned are being closely followed up by the government. I want to re-examine what the Council of State points to introductory terms, that when we're so lucky to have as specialised a health care as we have, we need to be able to expect high quality and not worry if the treatment can cause us any damage. Patient studies show that the vast majority are also happy with the services they receive at our hospitals. Nevertheless, it is a fact that we in Norway have too many and too serious events in which patients are exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable risks. This holds confidence in health services in Norway and is a very serious situation. I am pleased that the Council of State is aware that the work on making services safe, accessible and of good quality will be one of the most important tasks in the future. In this context, I look forward to the 2011 National Patient Security Campaign, as announced by the Council of State. Similar campaigns in other countries have led to documented results in terms of reduced mortality. In order to be happy with the campaign, we are totally dependent on both the leaders of health services and health professionals being motivated and experienced as useful in their organisation. The occurrence of unfortunate events in the health system is unmistakable, but also unintelligible. In order to learn to counteract this, we need to know and recognize the extent. International studies indicate that 10 pst. of those admitted to hospitals are unduly damaged by the treatment given. In Norway it is reported about approx. 2 000 events for the Health Authority. Select one third of these debts significantly damage to the patient, half is almost accidental. Norwegian patient compensation paid 660 million. in compensations in 2008. According to foreign students, Professor Peter F. Hjort has estimated that Norway has approx. 2 000 unnecessary deaths per year. 16 000 patients with permanent disability and almost 500000 extra lay days. This could be between 1.6 and 2.2 billion. kr in additional costs in addition to the suffering suffered by patients and dependants. Patient safety is based on openness about errors and accidental events. Without openness it is impossible to prevent and learn from errors. For health professionals to be willing to be open, they must feel it as safe. Therefore, the reporting culture must be strengthened. The most important thing is to learn from errors, almost occasional and unintended events in order to prevent such events in the future. Therefore, a necessary change is outlined by the Council of State, by moving the administration of the notification system under the Special Health Services Act §3-3 from the Health Authority to the National Unit for Patient Safety at the Knowledge Centre. I would like to stress that patient security is primarily a leadership responsibility. It is usually a number of factors other than the individual’s competence to decide whether the patient is being exposed to unwanted events. Therefore, a requirement to be able to succeed in patient safety work is for leaders at all levels to have insight into and commitment to patient safety. The management must take responsibility for routines and systems in place, and the lease must be responsible when things go wrong. Leading must be of health care, of quality and safety for patients. In the three specific cases that have shaken Health-Noreg, I would particularly like to draw up waiting lists at the Western Week health care centre. My main question is: Corphor and how could this happen? What was the background? Could it have anything to do with the financing of the specialist services and perhaps a one-sided focus on ignition? The Health Directorate reported in a 2008 study that the ignition requirement in hospitals in response-driven funding was strong and could have affected patient treatment and quality. I am therefore pleased that the government of the political platform decides that we should have a review of the funding system. For all intents and purposes, I don't think today's funding system is a barrier to patient safety, but it doesn't favour those who are good at quality and patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1735	The common denominator of today’s issues is that they challenge people’s trust in health care. We have to be confident that we will be called to investigate when the doctor has referred us to, and that waiting time for an operation is correct and proper when we receive a letter from the hospital. We have to trust that the surgeon who's operating on us knows what he's doing, and can do what he's doing. We also need to be able to be confident that health surveillance will quickly and objectively investigate what has happened when what is not going to happen is still happening. We have to trust that accidents and unfortunate events are corrected, that is system errors or personal errors, and that this leads to learning for health care, so that it does not happen again. This is in particular the sum of the issues we are getting a statement about today, which is serious. I would also like to thank the Minister of Health for the review she has given us here today. But the Christian People's Party has gone so far as to characterize this as a systemic crisis, and we have also called for cleanup, so that confidence is assured. This is not only about what individuals have done, but also about system failures and inability to learn from errors. It's about management problems, which many people have been dealing with, but I also want to call it unculture. And with unculture, I think of the culture of protection that we unfortunately still find in large parts of health care. We've had many unexpected deaths in the last few years. And it's not hard to see when you go into those things -- and they're not few -- that there can't be anything else but that you're scared and protecting each other, which means that you just can't get to the necessary clarification. Many suffer because of it today. As far as the role of the State Health Authority is concerned, I have unfortunately received too many requests that in some cases it is not the independent supervision it should be. In Norway, we may have been afraid of getting American jurisdictions and overtreatment of fear of not doing enough, but it may not be that faults and unfortunate events should pass without consequences. Among other things, in a number of cases dealt with by the Health Inspectorate, time-limits for replying to cases are not met. Hospitals and experts must be reminded of their response to letters. This takes months and years before a case is completed. Those who experience this feel that it is a double damage – in a way. I look forward to the 2011 National Patient Safety Campaign, which the Minister of Health spoke about today. Of course, I support the objective of reducing the number of adverse events in healthcare. Another goal must be greater transparency about unfortunate events. Here, there are great opportunities to save human lives, to get better patient treatment and, above all, to strengthen confidence in the health services of the population. The Health Minister spoke today about quality and patient safety. Yes, it does. As for the own call-out unit, which is going to have a two-year trial plan, I have a question, and that's whether this is going to apply to the whole country, or whether it's going to be run in some places that have been picked out. I would like to refer to what the representative Bent Höie said about the Christian People's Party and the Right have come together to set up a disaster commission as another trial project, to see if it can be a better arrangement. Some of the background for that is that we want it to be completely unhindered. I would like to ask the Minister of Health whether the police will be in place immediately if, for example. An unexpected death occurs — we are talking about an unexpected death. In many of the cases we have had, the police have actually not been present because they have assessed it locally so that it was not necessary, or the Health Authority has said that it was not necessary – and yet it has been in a number of cases. So the fact that you have to do – if I have understood correctly – your own assessment on the spot as to whether this caller should come or not, I don't think it's going to be good enough. So I have another question. That's whether you've created standardized and, I say, understandable letters that are delivered to patients, about rights, information about deadlines, waiting times, etc. Do all patients throughout Norway now get the same, quite unambiguously, so that you do not misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1767	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. We, as the world's best country in a great deal, must strive for the best possible health care system and strive to ensure that citizens have confidence in health care. We in the Left agree with the Council of State that we can never fully guard against mishandling. However, we should, and can, do more to ensure better control and quality. Although we cannot rule out mistreatment 100 p.p., we must do everything possible and in our power to minimize the chances of doing so, and ensure the best possible patient safety. Citizens depend entirely on trust in health services, both for the best possible and safe treatment, and not least for those working at health establishments to have the necessary qualifications and documents in order. Citizens of Norway must continue to feel secure in the treatment they receive. But to get this done, something has to be done. In order to maintain good confidence, it is necessary to avoid system failures. But where that happens, it is necessary to thoroughly review and evaluate it so that it can be prevented in the future. At the same time, transparency is essential in relation to health problems. This is part of living in a free and open democracy. Citizens deserve to know about the deficiencies in the healthcare system. The openness is actually also trustworthy. When evaluations and reviews are carried out, it is also important that those who are going to do this job are completely independent. It will not be reliable if the evaluation appears to fit the oat sack. In a country like Norway, given the money we spend on health care and the efforts we make in areas such as education of health professionals, on control, we should not be able to live with such brutal and serious faults that individuals get rid of healthy organs. For those people who are being mistreated, and for their families, this is deeply tragic and sad. But it is also socially harmful, and the confidence of the other citizens in health care is weakened. That is why we in the Left are pleased with all external reviews. The left is very concerned about getting good quality assurance procedures in place. Matters such as waiting list cases, mishandling and checking whether those holding the posts have the necessary qualifications contribute to weakening the overall image of the health care system. Therefore, this statement from the Council of State is also important. But much more important is that proper and necessary action is taken to counter what has happened. No one in this room, and no government council, should be able to rest until one has managed to reverse the very ugly and fatal figures, as the representative Höie also pointed out. It is not possible to live with the fact that more doors of incorrect treatment in hospitals than in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1787	I will comment on some of the comments that have come. Many people have gone through the same thing — we are concerned that the citizens of Norway should have confidence in health services. I also want to say that initially trust in the healthcare system is very great. However, it is clear that when so many serious incidents occur within a year — under a year, in fact — it is serious for healthcare in general, for the confidence of citizens and, of course, for the employees who work in this service. The representative, Kjönaas Kjos, asked why these defects were not found that were later discovered, as they had the big review in January/February. I want to stress that there were thousands of records that were reviewed in health companies. What was especially looked at there was whether you could see the same type of system failure elsewhere in Norway. You couldn't find it. But that doesn't prevent it from being a simple mistake. As I also said, there was a small percentage of deviation when this was about moving on dates. But most often the explanation was that it had moved on dates after agreement with the patient. I did not say that there could never be any faults. You can't guard against that. But luckily, the type of continuous system failure that in the West Week we haven't seen so far elsewhere, although it's been a mistake and a failure, which is, of course, serious enough. I very much agree that we must have transparency about these events. That's why I think it's important to bring this up, look at it, just to be able to learn and see what action it's important to take so that things don't happen again. The representative, Höie, says – at least I see it this way – that there is a major system failure in the healthcare system. I would be careful to say that. At the same time, I have to say that on behalf of the health service I have more ambitions than that we should be on international numbers when it comes to errors. It is also precisely to work systematically on the quality work that we are dealing with and have taken care of it – and I have taken care of it. It is a pleasure to see that where you really go in and work systematically to improve quality — for example. Ahus, who has very good international results in getting out low in terms of hospital infections — we see that it is beneficial. Nor is there any reason to believe that health companies have not taken this into account when we have so strongly called for this to be done. We are now legislating for quality work in the specialist health service law. So the question is, is it that quality work has gone at the expense of keeping the economy under control? I am not in doubt that if we had not had a balance in the economy of health businesses, I would have had quite a number of questions in Stortinget on the basis of that – why not health businesses follow the budgets that the Stortinge actually adopts, and the framework that the Stortinget sets. I think it's a prerequisite that we have a balance in the economy, but at the same time it's a prerequisite that the balance is healthy, that hospitals actually have the opportunity to provide good patient care for the means that are put at their disposal. So these are things that really go together. We should never compromise on quality work, it should never be a compromise that health professionals do their job properly, based on economic motives. The reporting system is being modified, bearing in mind that we will be at international level when it comes to reporting, that we will do so in the same way as in other countries, as is recommended by the World Health Organisation in the EU, precisely because we are going to learn from the mistakes that are taking place. The representative, Hansen, is asking for funding. I believe that the balance that is now is a balance we can live with. But we always have to assess whether funding is proportionate to the quality we have and the quality work that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1808	This concludes the debate on the presentation. The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Health on incidents in individual health establishments and the State Office for Health Care be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1824	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1832	Before voting, the President will consider an application for leave from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal from 19 October to 22 October to attend meetings in connection with the Council of Europe election observation in Azerbaijan. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Terje Halleland, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e1850	The size goes to voting. In Case No: 1-3 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-13.ana.ud2431e8096	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
