ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e95	The majority today enjoys having a group of parliamentarians from Mongolia on study visits with us. In 2004, the Stortinget and the Mongol Parliament, the State Great Hural, concluded their own cooperation agreement. The President would like to welcome them here and hope they have an interesting and useful stay. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The representatives Åse Michaelsen, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Arne Sortevik, Tor Bremer and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. They called for alternates, for Hordaland County Einar Horvei and for South Trondelag County Lars Bjarne Tvete, have taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Henning Skumsvoll from 2 March onwards. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the West Agder County, Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinget from 2 March to 5 March, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the West-Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e147	Kjell Ivar Larsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e155	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e158	On behalf of the representatives of Oskar Jarle Grimstad, Harald T. Nesvik, Kjell Ivar Larsen and myself, I propose to amend the concession requirements for Statnett's mobile gas power plant. I request that the matter be dealt with under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e165	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that it be opened up to five lines with replies after the individual posts. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e194	In the hiking hall earlier today, the chairman of the committee in an interview with TV 2 said something like this: we are talking about the backbone of the welfare community itself. I thought that was very well said. I'm looking at Anundsen, sitting in the hall here. I want to start by talking a little bit about the Norwegian welfare state, or the Norwegian welfare society, which can be defined in many ways as a solidarity split layer: you're going to do your duty and you're going to demand your right, we're creating values and we're distributing them fairly. We're going to have a model that ensures all well-being, care, health, education and work. People's rights will ensure us through sickness and unemployment and as pensioners. This is also important as a starting point for the organisation of the public sector, which is to put this into practice. We know that the challenges of achieving good and efficient public sector service production will increase in the years to come, including: Because we get more older, we get higher demands on quality and on availability. There are great expectations of service providers, both from the political system and from users. We see that the requirements for the first-line service are increasing considerably, we see that the pressure on the first-line service is increasing, and we see that the focus on the first-line service is increasing – where users meet the public service service provider. The size, through our decisions, and the Government, as the executive, is responsible for the organisation of the public sector for the benefit of the users. People who need help and service should meet with respect when they come to a public office. It is important that users do not meet the wall, not to say the door, when they go to a public office. It is also important that they do not have to go to more than one door, that they come through on the phone, that they receive answers and that they receive a prompt and sound procedure. This is really the whole essence of public service. The establishment of Nav was based on a welfare policy vision, with a first-line job and welfare management service as an important tool for achieving the objective of a comprehensive labour and social policy. There is an overall increase – both today and several times earlier – that has joined the Nav reform. Let me underline it quite strongly. The starting point was – and is – more in work, fewer in social security, simpler for users and more efficiency. It has not been the job of the Control and Constitutional Committee to look at or take a decision on the organisational model. It's the trade committee's job. Our responsibility is to see whether the decisions and assumptions of the Storting have been followed up and, of course, to consider the Riksrevision report on the revision of Nav for the financial year 2008. Perhaps the implementation of the Survey Decision on Nav could be called an imbalance between objectives, resources and capacity for implementation. The political system probably did not take account of the scale or complexity of the reform that was launched. In the name of the post-war — and it is known to be a good reason — questions can be asked whether this was well communicated, whether it was created unrealistic expectations from the political side. Former State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said at the hearing on 15 January 2010, i.e. a few weeks ago: ‘I don’t think anyone really fully understand how demanding it was.’ Perhaps it was sub-communicated that there would be a difficult transition phase, also because proceedings and services were maintained in parallel with demanding reform work. That doesn't mean Nav isn't going to work well. I would also like to stress that. To quote once again Hanssen, "I'm absolutely sure the history of Nav is going to be a success story." Let me add that what we are dealing with today is the financial year 2008, and that many of the circumstances pointed out by the Riksrevision were already addressed by the Council of State of Day Terje Andersen in St.prp. No 51 in the spring of 2009 and in the Innst of the Trade Union Committee. S. No 190. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee shall assume that these measures have been followed up and shall be continued. The main thing from the Riksrevision is that they are critical of Nav’s deprioritisation over several years to ensure satisfactory compliance with the internal control of the performance management. Weak internal control deliberately opens up abuse of welfare systems, and we have been given examples of it as well. It is dramatic that the Riksrevision cannot confirm the 2008 accounts of the establishment, because the accounts contain errors and shortcomings. So we're talking about $300 billion. It's not $300 million, it's $300 billion, so of course it's dramatic. The National Audit Office also says that Nav lacks control parameters for key parts of its business. Among other things, the directorate lacks control data in relation to the objective of correct performance. The Committee assumes that the establishment has sound operational management which contributes to a positive development within the time frame, balances, user service and internal control. What's probably made the strongest impression in the months I've been working with Nav, are the countless recordings and, in part, the dissatisfaction that has been channelled into me and others from different categories of users of Nav. And we also had someone at the hearing. This is the first line service — or the local Nav office. It's about how the little man and woman meet a public office when they get on different errands. Despite the Storting's assumption of the opposite, both competence and decision-making authority have apparently moved from the local office up to the so-called administrative units behind the scenes, which otherwise also joined the Storing when treating St.prp. No 51. The Nav offices appear today as a unit that lacks broad competence. Increased frustration on the part of employees about not being able to make the simplest decisions and not being able to deal with or answer questions, makes it appear that there is a shift of case handlers from the first line service to offices that are protected from user contact. It's also serious. I was a little in doubt, but think I'll quote from a text post in the VG yesterday from Finn, Sagstua: «Yes, now it is ten weeks since I sent the travel bill to Nav in the Ski. There is only one stamp missing for payment, I was informed, but they expected a few more weeks. Excellent with the new system!’ I don't know if this is Sagstua in North Odal, but in that case it's far from North Odal to Skien. Or she who went to the Nav office on Skedsmo to get cards for blue prescription. It was forwarded to Eidsvoll and took six weeks. Now there is a matter that is now cleared up, because it is no longer going to happen in the Nav offices, but still. A unanimous committee stresses that it has been a prerequisite for the Nav reform that local offices should give one door to all services, and that the procedure should be reduced. I would like to commend the Council of State Bjurstrom for addressing this problem by initiating a thorough analysis of the division of labour between the Nav offices and the administrative units. During the consultation, there were also views on Nav’s competence in communication, vocational guidance and contact with working life. This was the competence of the old Aetat, how to ensure return to work. There are reports from several teams that these are competences that Nav is deprioritising today, that the employment service simply does not work. This applies to all types of jobseekers and to contacts between jobseekers and the business community, including in the case of higher-skilled workers. Of course, this is not the least about people with reduced working capacity. In the first case on the agenda, Innst. 142 S, we can read that while the workplaces have recruited so-called IA sites in 693 companies, Nav was only able to place 96. So there seems to be a misunderstanding here – that this contact between the jobseeker and the employer is not possible, because there are actually almost 600 places left for the companies to report to Nav. Finally, one of the reasons for malpayments and late processing seems to be still a lack of effective ICT solutions. The Committee points out that the out-of-date system leads to inefficiency and control challenges. Now we're working on a new ICT strategy. It's important, even when we know that the Riksaudition says that today's system does not meet the requirements of the Financial Regulation on the security and traceability of transactions. In the end, I would like to underline what Councillor Bjurstrøm said in the hearing: «The work to make Nav the organisation we all want must be done on a broad front.» We support the Nav reform, and in many places Nav also works very well. Let's not forget that. But there is a lot left before users get one door and a proper and quick procedure. Employees must be involved in this process. They've been hitched in the critique of Nav. However, the 17 000 staff have done a great job of keeping the team going through a very demanding reform process. It also belongs to the picture of Nav. When the State of Employment and Welfare continues to reorganise, and in this case the Directorate itself is involved, it is obvious that the employees' organisations, including those in the Directorate, will be provided with the participation to which the works of agreement refer. I assume that the Council of State contributes to that happening. There is generally consensus in this setting. However, the Progress Party believes that the Council of State should assess whether the Nav Director and the other management have the necessary trust and competence. From our point of view, I would like to stress that the Stortinget does not interfere with who the Council of State and the Department employ at all times. It is the Council of State that is responsible to us, not representatives of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e258	I want to focus my article on Document 1 Appendix 2. We will come back to case No. 1 in a later article. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very good cooperation within the Committee and for a good ability to find constructive solutions in those areas where it has been important to bring the Committee together. Secondly, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for a good report, and not least for taking the challenges of the Working and Welfare Unit so seriously that they have produced their own additional report to Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then I would like to stress how serious it is when a state budget does not get its accounts confirmed by the National Audit Office. So it's like -- as I said in the hiking hall, which was quoted here earlier -- that this isn't about anything, it's about the whole backbone of the Norwegian welfare community, it's about a third of the government budget's expenditure. It is very serious when the Supervisory Body of the Storting cannot confirm the use of money in such a system. The national audit has identified a number of serious deficiencies in the management of activities and reporting, while identifying several structural conditions that adversely affect the quality of the services and the follow-up. During the open hearing, it was also clear that the steering signals from political management had been too weak. During the implementation of such a major reform as the Nav reform is, it is not unnatural that a meeting of challenges en route. But then one is completely dependent on clear policy management in the department, which in the administration ensures that the decisions and assumptions of the Storting are implemented. Much suggests that political governance should be better and clearer from the department. In particular, there was reason to expect a strong political follow-up from the Ministry in 2008, because the Riksrevision points to errors and shortcomings that have also been pointed out several times in the past. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure such follow-up. There is a lot of evidence that the political awareness of these issues has been too weak. It is of course important that internal control procedures function well also during the implementation of a major reform. Perhaps it is particularly important during the implementation of such a major reform that such procedures are in place early, in order to ensure that they are safe from errors, shortcomings and reduced service provision. Therefore, it is serious that Nav has produced his own internal control as if it were better than the case actually was. The Nav Director said in the hearing that he lived in the error that the internal control procedures were good. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection It is difficult to understand that the Nav Director may have had the impression that the internal control procedures are good, when the National Audit Office has pointed out since the launch of the Nav reform that the internal control procedures have been too poor. As I understood, the Nav management also knew about the extensive error reporting on the development of internal control in Nav. The Progress Party, like the majority of the Committee, considers that this shows that the Nav management has not been sufficiently vigilant in this area, which has contributed to the fact that the Nav accounts cannot be confirmed by the National Audit Office. When the Nav reform was adopted by Stortinget, it was also adopted as an explicit premise that users should not experience a reduced offer or a reduced follow-up. One can then conclude that this assumption is not met in relation to 2008. The offer to users in 2008 was significantly lower than foreseen, users were subject to long processing times, poorer follow-up, mispayments and payments at wrong time. Substantial errors have also been identified in the basic documentation. Much of this is also due to an out-of-date ICT system. One of the lessons learned from the implementation of the Nav reform must be that such systems need to be put in place more quickly in the implementation of such reforms, in order to simplify control and follow-up and internal control procedures, while improving the care of users and their rights more effectively. Sick leave is a challenge in Norway in general. Nav is responsible for the follow-up of the sick subject, but Nav is experiencing a very high level of sick leave at present. There is reason to believe that part of this sick leave is due to the inability of the agency to increase its competence in the process of reform. It is serious when you see the consequences of your being overly committed to raising the skills of your own employees. The implementation of the content reform will create major challenges for Nav if Nav's own sick absences are not drastically reduced rapidly. The Progress Party differs somewhat from the other opposition parties and other parties, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur in his statement, expressing it naturally in that a State Council must at all times ensure that it is the most appropriate and most competent management who sits in the Nav driver's seat on the further journey. We have recorded that Government Council Bjurstrøm is very pleased with the work of the Nav management, and the Progress Party has found it somewhat strange, given what the Riksrevision report can tell us, not only for 2008, but also in relation to previous reports on Nav. However, we recognise – of course – that this is an assessment theme that the Council of State must deal with and that the Council of State alone must take responsibility for. Finally, during the Committee's examination of the case, we have been assured that one of the Riksrevision's reports for 2009 will see that there have been significant improvements and that there is no reason to fear that the accounts for 2009 cannot be confirmed. It's not long until we get the fasit on it, and I hope that that fasitite is consistent with the insurance we've been given. Indeed, it would be a totally unacceptable situation if one continued to allow significant weaknesses in the management and follow-up of Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e281	It is a serious criticism that the National Audit Office is targeting the implementation of one of the biggest reforms in – I get to say – this century, although it is not so many years to base it on. The serious criticism is largely unanimous in the support of the Storting Control Committee. I think it's worth noting. It's more striking than the small theses that are in the setting. I'll come back to a couple of them. The serious criticism summarizes itself as a criticism of both Nav as such and of its ability to control internal affairs – among other things, I point out. on page 10 of the setting and I quote the following: ‘The Committee considers that the Riksrevision report indicates that, over several years, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has not had a sufficient focus on internal control, with the result that errors and deficiencies imply that the Nav accounts cannot be confirmed for 2008.’» There is a criticism of the ministry, in this context related to the management of the former state councils, but a criticism that the department as an institution, regardless of political direction, should note. There is also a criticism of the Nav leadership as such, and a majority of the committees that the government parties are not included point to the fact that the Nav management did not see this at an earlier time, but that new internal control procedures were introduced only in the autumn of 2009. The Committee points out that the signals that something went wrong should have indicated that this had been implemented at a much earlier time. But then I have to add, for the sake of order, that the Right naturally adheres to the constitutional rule that the Heads of State are responsible for the Council of State. We are critical of the head of the department at this point, but the conclusion is that it is up to the Council of State to deal with the head of the department — of course. The main impression is that this reform has been carried out in a way that has for many years been completely introverted, occupied by itself, its processes and everything that comes with a merger and a reform – of which the merger was the most important – and has been too little dedicated to providing services to citizens, which are, of course, the main objectives of the agency. A small example of this was received as late as today's radio debate on action against prostitutes as a result of the sex purchase ban that Stortinget has previously adopted. The Grünerløkka Socialekontoret was added 2 million. to measures related to prostitution. They answer today that we have not done anything about this because last year we were getting together. Then you could raise the question of whether an entity really exists for itself or for the users. This is a serious problem for which both government and raising granted extra money, and so it was assumed that the agency unit Nav would do what was intended. It doesn't happen, and you justify it because you were self-interested. This is a fresh example and maybe definitely not the largest one. The most important thing is the civil rights that Nav has to fulfil in relation to the processing time, in relation to the balances, in relation to the service to users and the internal control accompanying them. It should also be a matter of course of course that an agency that manages so large public funds also has a control over mispayments, which are a lot better than what is documented. The National Audit Office points to – and this is one of the most important criticisms in the Riksrevision report – that payments of errors amount to several hundred million dollars over several years. It has something to do with managing taxpayers’ money, and I also expect the government members to be currently busy with money – just under two weeks ahead of the first budgetary conference. But there is also another, perhaps more important, reason: the respect for the transmission systems managed by Nav, assumes that most people have confidence that they are paid in the right size to the right people. It has also been pointed out by other speakers that it is obvious that the strengthening of competence that should be part of the reform and the merger process has not been sufficiently ensured, and that perhaps – I might say – it is one of the reasons for the very high level of sick leave in the establishment. The current Council of State announced on its accession a thorough analysis of Nav – external expertise, six months would take. It's all right, but I'm among those in the committee who've asked the question of why in the world this isn't done before. After several years of mistakes in the building that are obvious, that are documented, and after the employees' organisations have called out warnings many, many times, why is this only now? This is not a criticism of the Council of State, but criticism of what has not been done in the past. Finally, I have four questions for the Council of State: Is the Council of State convinced that internal control in Nav is better now, and what ground does she have for this? There is also an ongoing criticism in the vote, as the Riksrevision report states, that the target management of the agency, i.e. the department's target management, has been too poor, too small to quantify and too low to be proactive. Is the Council of State convinced that the Ministry's target management is satisfactory now, and again: What is the anchor for this? During the hearing, the Council of State promised to return to Stortinget in the spring session — as stated in the statement p. 65, in the annex, which is a record from the hearing, where the Council of State says she will come back to the Storting in the spring session, or, "We'll say so." This was an oral form, which was suitable for the hearing, but the quotation is now like this. My question to the Council of State is: is she still standing on what she thought early in January, that she will come back to the Stortinget with a case in spring 2010? She also stated in the hearing that she saw the need to anchor this in a broader majority of the Stortinget, i.e. to discuss it with the opposition. My last and fourth question is therefore: what initiatives has she taken so far to discuss with the opposition about the way forward for this reform, which, after all, is a total accumulation originally, that is. when the final decision was taken, was behind it, although there had been some disagreement earlier in the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e312	The Nav reform is the biggest administrative reform we have implemented in modern times. It is important both because Nav manages the country's most important resource, the labour force, and because it manages the quality of life and the ability to live for people who live difficult lives or are too old or sick to work and have no income. Yes, not only is income dependent on people, but also necessary social follow-up when life becomes difficult and flocks to, as it sometimes does. Therefore, it is clear that such a reform, when it does not work optimally, will have a terrible impact on those involved. That is why the criticism brought by the Riksrevision is very serious. I would also like to remind you that we, who have followed the reform of the Trade Union Committee, have addressed this matter in budgetary proceedings after the period of criticism of the Riksrevision, and also in the form of our own cases to the Stortinget, which deals with exactly the same issues. This is why both the Government and the Storing have acted in time to deal with the problems that have occurred. The expectations were great. Yes, some people think that expectations were too big, and it may be that they were – that they underestimated such a big and complicated reform. I would like to remind you – because I have been working on these matters for 13 years now in Stortingen – that the starting point was not that there were establishments with full control, where everyone who needed assistance received it quickly and was treated properly and with respect. Unfortunately, this was not the case in advance either, but the problem increased when the reform was launched. But the goal of the reform was that it would be easier, that more people would get help in the past, that they would get better help in the near future, and that it would be easier to control the payments – that people would get what they were supposed to and nothing else. Everyone was concerned that it should be safe. Mispayments and fraud with the social security system are, in my view, no worse than cheating on the tax, but in the political debate around these systems, it will be seen as something worse and as a part of tearing down the confidence of the entire security system that people in difficult situations depend on. Therefore, it is very important that the whole Nav system has very good internal control and that they have law-abiding decision-making processes, where the error payments are as small as possible. That is why I am very pleased that this has now been taken more seriously. In this context, the size of the population dealt with in the previous ageing period a matter of what is called social security and introduced new rules to ensure this area. In the case of waiting time, it has been too long. Everyone understands that when you don’t get money – and you don’t have a salary anywhere else – the crisis is total. When this comes at the same time as a financial crisis, the situation becomes very serious. When Stortinget treated St.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, this was one of the things we focused most on. Then new resources were allocated to address this. It was also looked at what's called the interface. I am, like previous speakers, very pleased with the signals from the Council of State on a review of the interface. What the Storting said about the treatment last time was that Nav could of course deal with completely simple issues in the first line, and so get through with the things that were simple. More complicated matters could have been said to have another loop. At the time, the unemployment benefit was involved, but the Stortinget also gave clear signals that there might be a need for this in other matters, which was confirmed both by the Council of State and by the Director of Nav during consultations when we discussed the matter. So there's a need to look at it. There is a need to simplify where it can be simplified and there is a need for good quality control procedures in areas where required. What has also been addressed is the situation related to ICT and the additional problems it poses for establishments that need to merge and deal with many different ICT systems, which are sometimes not entirely feasible to work together. Clearly, this is a major challenge. There is not so much political discussion in this matter, but it is a little strange that those who are the sharpest critics both in terms of lack of funding for ICT and in terms of Nav not having mastered its tasks, it is the party that has managed to cut a billion in the Nav operating budget in the two worst years. It is a little difficult to take that criticism seriously when you see that both Nav was assigned to larger tasks, and you took from them the resources to do the job. I am quite convinced that with that kind of budgeting, the situation would have been considerably worse, both for the employees and, not least, for the users. I think it should motivate us all to a little bit of sense when, for ideological reasons, we go into public administration, and especially on the administration that exists for those who have the most difficulty, with a general savings knife – that it's kind of just cutting a little here and there, because in this organization there's so much dough meat. The National Audit Office's report and all the messages we get, both from users and from employees in this organization, tell us that here is an organisation that has had more than enough to do, and more tasks than it has for a period of time had resources. I agree with the representative Foss that the matter that was referred to on the radio today was not a pleasant matter. It can demonstrate an error priority, but it can also demonstrate that there have been processes that have gone too fast or have not been planned well enough, so that users get into trouble, as the Storting assumed they should not. I would like briefly to say something about the work centres, which is part of another report. The National Audit Office's report also reveals something that we are told about every day, namely that some of the work centres work very well. Where they function well, they contribute significantly to the faster return of people after illness, to their entry into the labour market, and to employers feeling that they are being given competent assistance in their work related to health and illness in the workplace. This is why it is very important to systematise the work of work centres in such a way that this good tool works well throughout the country. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the signals from the Council of State during the hearing that concerned the steps she is now taking to improve the situation in Nav in the future, and that she will look at the organisational conditions, as well as the need for a review of competence, which the Committee has unanimously underlined over and over again. It is necessary to have the necessary skills and staff in the first line. That's where the users meet the service, and that's also where the moment of truth's judgment on the Nav reform will come: Will it be good, or will it become bad? I am convinced that the Nav reform will be good, but I am also convinced that we need to spend more resources on this in the future, and that this needs stronger political governance than it has been now. I hear that the Council of State is going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e338	‘The Court of Auditors cannot confirm that the 2008 accounts of the State of Labour and Welfare do not contain material errors and deficiencies.’ Weaknesses in internal control create uncertainty about the quality of the accounts. This is, to put it mildly, objectionable, as the accounts of the Employment and Welfare Act constitute one third of the State budget. 2008 was a demanding year for the establishment. It was a huge volume of reform. The growth in unemployment, especially at the end of the year – due to the financial crisis – created an extra heavy labour pressure. The internal control was obviously not adequately prioritised. The hearings confirmed that more attention is now being paid to procedures for and compliance with internal control. It must be possible to expect immediate implementation of measures to ensure sound operational management and an internal audit of satisfactory quality. We cannot live with the fact that one third of the government budget’s expenditure – perhaps 300 billion – cannot be confirmed. One of the intentions of this reform was to make it easier for the user – one door, one case handler and a shorter time to deal with it. Unfortunately, the reality of some Nav offices has often been the opposite. By the fact that the generalist competence has not been in place in the first line service, the user has become a throwball in the system. The establishment of administrative seats has diverted far too much competence from the first line service. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State could confirm during the hearing that a thorough review of the current division of labour between the Nav offices and the administrative units has been initiated. Personally, I think the report will show that many of the tasks, and also part of the decision-making authorities, need to be returned to the local Nav offices. Good ICT solutions are essential today for public institutions to carry out their tasks. In Nav, outdated ICT solutions have made work less effective. Different systems in the various fields of activity have made interaction difficult. I believe that good common ICT solutions should be a much higher priority, and that they should be in place in advance of the reform. Another major challenge has been the exchange of competences and skills. It looks like you've had too much faith that the exchange of skills would go on your own, just that you were co-located in the same house. Part of the competence disappeared from the administrative units and there has not been enough time for empowerment in an extremely hectic everyday life. Afterwards, skills plans have been put in place in all Nav offices and the debt-to-budget exchange has given better generalist competence in the first line service. In retrospect, we also see that skills enhancement should have had a greater place in the run-up to the reform, and not just in the run-up. The National Audit Office’s 2008 report must in no way be seen as an evaluation of the Nav reform. There were many Nav offices around the country that were barely established when this report was included in the pen. Only in a few years can we establish how successful this reform has been. Despite several entry problems, with major consequences for some users, I have great faith that the reform will succeed. I notice, among other things. the Joint Organisation of Disabilities, in its opinion, underlines that they have been, and are still, very positive to the Nav reform. Now the situation is also very different around the country. Particularly in Hordaland and Oslo, there have been major problems with residues and unacceptable long waiting time for example. to clarify unemployment benefits, but many offices work well. The report shows that Nav offices in the small municipalities have less waiting time, better personal follow-up and much greater user satisfaction than the larger offices – despite the fact that the financial crisis has also led to an increase in the volume of work, and despite the fact that critical voices were also felt in advance of this reform that the coercion of municipalities was a prerequisite for its functioning in District Norway. Finally, I hope that many of the challenges identified by the report can be included in the work on the Cooperation Reform. Fortunately, the cooperation reform has been built up in such a way that it can be gradually introduced. The community health service must be developed gradually. Equally full, there are many of the same challenges and many parallels to see here. It will be essential to have ICT solutions in place in advance. Sufficient competence must be in place in the municipal sector in advance, and not least the task allocation must be time-consuming before the reform is launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e362	First, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for his work on this matter, because it was possible to quickly see that there were sharp lines of division between position and opposition. That has not happened, and I think the rapporteur is absolutely right, because it is so important that such a major and far-reaching reform still has sufficient political legitimacy. We're now talking about the past to a great extent, but for the population out there, it's of course the future of Nav that's crucial for us to know if we were to have another run, which is, of course, what the Storting did in its time, was right. I think we should perhaps dwell a few moments on the fact that such a great reform has been ordered by the Storting, in spite of the professional advice given on the opposite, and in spite of the rejection of the first proposal of the then government on another model. This could be a good thing to have with you. When the Storting itself criticises others, it may sometimes be necessary to look at itself in the cards and ask if the process – seen from the Stortinget side – was the very best. I say this because we are facing another major and important reform, namely the cooperation reform. It is now being treated here in the house. At least let's take some of the experience we have in the process, maybe even expectations, as we start doing that work. I do not need to comment on what other speakers have done about what has gone wrong, which is so well described in the vote and, to some extent, in the report of the National Audit Office. Let me just say that that might indicate that the follow-up isn't just system-dependent, it can also be person-dependent. From the hearing I have to say that I experienced, and it was not disputed either, that there was a clear shift of focus in 2008 through the change of state council that was then given. The ministry went more strongly into the management of Nav, and I also expect that, among other things. is what will produce results – of course Nav’s own work – when we get the accounts for 2009. That it is important that the responsible State Council and the responsible department spend time and energy on this, I think the hearing was a very clear indication of and quite descriptive. I want to spend time on the one fact that I see in the hearing and after it, appears to be the Achilles heel: the relationship between the local offices and the administrative units, or the more specialised units. I will first give the Council of State the honour of having now set down an external sample to review this interface. I just want to say from the Christian People's Party that the premise for this is, in fact, that the Great Britain has already said about it: the Committee, i.e. the Labour and Social Committee, said that it is a prerequisite that it is: ‘a first line that is good for individual guidance and follow-up. The Committee emphasises the need to pool certain administrative tasks in specialised units, building on the objectives of the NAV reform, by releasing administrative resources for the follow-up of users in the first line. Through good interaction between the Special Unit and the NAV Office, the NAV Office shall have the necessary key competence to realise the intention of the reform.’» In my opinion, the Riksrevision report on this point is so clear, and I would also like to say in the hearing that the reform has not been followed up in line with the Stortingen assumptions, as described by the Labour and Social Committee in the quotation I have now referred to. I just have to say that this is also supported. I have been to two Nav offices between the hearing and this debate – one here in the city and a completely different place. It is said correctly that there is sufficient competence in the first line service. Even the simpler decisions cannot be made at the local Nav office but must be sent to the administrative and special units. If we don't get this straight, we have a big problem. Then we're not talking about one door. Then we talk about one door and one office that has to pass through another door to another office, which is more or less anonymous to the user. This is not in line with the reform. But, of course, there are more complex issues that require a more specialised treatment. My clear call is that if you don't do anything with this Achilles heel, we won't get any further. But as I said, I am pleased that a sample has now been put down to look at this. I understand it also this way, I just want a confirmation from the Council of State, that the user interests will be heard through some kind of reference group. My question to the Council of State is when she expects her to be ready for a conclusion of the work she has now started, and when it may affect users. I would also like to say that, as far as one can call the cultural and competence part of the reform, there seems to be a slowdown in the resources for this work in 2010. I would also like to challenge the Council of State on how she views this. I have to say it was an experience for me to visit one of the offices here in the city, where one talked about that on the fourth floor is the state and on the third floor is the municipality. That's right! It is clear that then you have to ask yourself whether the intention of the reform has turned all the way to the offices that individual users meet, and where, in my opinion, you still act with quite watertight shots.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e389	I would also like to begin by commending the case rapporteur for a very thorough and very open treatment. That's contrary to the two best honors left can give someone! I would like to support what Mr Syversen said here too. In the report submitted by the Riksrevision, it is possible to look at the matter from two different perspectives. One perspective is the need for a state to control its use of money. In this respect, the conclusion contained in the Riksrevision report is very serious, because it is not possible to approve such a large proportion of our state budget and the use of money. I want to focus on the other perspective. It's about what Nav is supposed to be. It is not a forum for dealing with shipowners' taxes or an organised entity to help those who have the most resources to set up. This is the security network in our society. That's what's going to come into force when everything goes wrong. When the world rages around us, it's Nav that's supposed to be the security network. What has been most striking in working on this matter is exactly what Marit Nybakk made, all the stories we've got from users when they've noticed that we've had this debate in Stortinget. That's the other perspective, the citizen's focus, the idea that this should be a system designed for those who have experienced that society is really raging around them, that the entire security network is going on. Then to be told, after the months you have the worst advice, that you should wait six weeks for a refund, or the times you feel that the whole family structure around you is faltering, that it is when you have to have the most energy to go on to get an overview and to find out, I really think is one of the major challenges we face as a society. We're creating a security network that requires so much resources to find out that those who really need help don't get it, while those who are really concerned about finding all sorts of loopholes, or getting involved in all sorts of rules and facing case handlers – knowing and knowing and knowing – can probably be nice on our security network. I think that, for example. The overview of the number of outlying residents in Oslo or other cities is a very good proof of how our system has worked. Because there's no evidence that we don't have a welfare state, there's no evidence that we don't have systems that make everyone have a place to live, but it's proof that we have a system that's so advanced, so little focus on the individual citizen who comes in with his problem, that you can't help those who really, really need help. I've talked to Nav staff who say you're going to type in some indicators on a PC, and then you kind of get the conclusion. I would have wanted a hub that looked much more so to the individual citizen who was sitting there, who had much greater authority locally to see what the individual needs, and also to see what the individual does not need, who could have had a much greater citizen focus in his planning. I think that the challenge for the whole Nav, yes for the whole base of our welfare state in the future, is that we might have to give up some of the millimeters of justice, because the millimeters of justice creates meter injustice for those who fall outside. So maybe we should have simplified our systems. Maybe we should have put a lot more effort into sitting down and seeing what the individual needs right there and then, instead of creating even more advanced systems that make it even harder to get through. Some of the stories I've been given have been really heartbreaking to read. It's about people who, in a phase of life where they get a real break, perceive that they're also going to fight against a system. I have got stories from old ladies who have called and asked questions about shipping and sick transport, and who have been peeled out on the phone and got thrown on the pipe, because they have nothing to ask about it. There must be systems that provide feedback, so that feedback can also be given to employees. Everyone understands that when you work in systems where you also meet people at the extreme edge, it can be demanding, and it can also lead to you moving on the extreme edge. But then there have to be systems that allow it to be picked up, and it can be as simple as maybe some people sometimes have to pick up the phone to call and apologize. When the state is going to make big changes, the state has a big drawback in relation to when private people make big changes, and it's that the government always thinks that they should save on the change. You think if you give too much room for action in the conversion, you'll never be able to pull it in afterwards. This is a finance ministry logic that has been demanding in many major changes in government. I think this case and the hearing around the case also bears the mark that we have some politicians who are fascinated by the launch, and some politicians who are fascinated by the implementation. I agree with the Syvers' comments on that very point. What I also think is striking, which appeared in the hearing, is that when Dag Terje Andersen joined, he describes that what he almost came into being was a state of crisis, where immediate action had to be taken. My question is then: why wasn't anything done until Dag Terje Andersen joined the State Council, why wasn't any of the arrests done earlier? Then I'm also very concerned about what's written about the leakage of competence, especially from the first line service. Anyone who has run any office – yes, you can compare it to running a political party – where you should have contact with citizens knows that the first line service is very important. Meeting people in a proper way, and having competence in meeting people, is very important. This may be one of the major challenges facing the Council of State. Then I want to mention something that no one else has mentioned, but that we in the Left are very concerned about. Many recent revelations about Nav have also been made about lack of privacy, lack of understanding of privacy and lack of privacy practices. It's a big challenge for the government to address, because there are few who choose to get into the Nav system, there are few who choose to act, and then feel that your privacy isn't being treated properly, and that your personal data is floating around, the most sensitive information about your life, is something you can't tolerate. The second thing I want to mention is the debate on ombudsman. I think that this whole thing, and the whole work for us in the Committee on the Case, is a good argument for believing that you're going to solve all of Nav's challenges by making a Nav agent. I think that all the big politicians are very good at reading the enquiries we've been given. We're very good at getting those stories about people's meeting with the system. That's our job, because we're people's agents. It is we who have the ombudsman role, and we are the ones who have to take care of it. That's why when our citizens, when they're our agents, get bored with the system, it's our job to hear their story, and it's our job to do something about it. I'm afraid that by introducing an agent, you're depoliticating the entire welfare debate. We'll probably get a better everyday life by not being able to relate to people being bored by the system. But I think we have a great deal of good to hear those stories. It's our job to do it too. When it comes to the conversion of Nav, I think I'm going to repeat something that I've said before, and that it's important to remember for state councils that are set to implement and not to initiate. It's a quote from Ivar Aasen: "They believe it will go so fast up to something big. But as soon as anything big is night, So there came a bit of fun." This is a good example of the Nav reform. You have to care about the little things, because it's the little things everyday that people make up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e429	The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee refers, as I see it, to two different themes. One relates to the fact that the Employment and Welfare Act has received an audit letter with comments and that the Riksrevision cannot confirm that there are no errors and shortcomings in the 2008 accounts of the Agency. The second refers to the implementation of the Nav reform and what the Committee expects from the labour and welfare management. In my post I would like to say something about how I follow up both relationships. I share the Committee's view that it is very serious that the Riksrevision cannot confirm the accounts of the Employment and Welfare Act. The criticism of the Riksrevision goes on different aspects. What, in my view, is most serious in the criticism is the weak internal control of the performance management. However, I expect the National Audit Office to be able to find an improvement in the situation in the Labour and Welfare Act through 2009, even though I am prepared for the Riksrevision in the 2009 audit to come up with criticism. In order to improve the level of control in the performance management, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has put in place key checks for the areas of health benefits, disability benefits, child welfare, child support and social welfare for lone dependants. The checks were carried out in all counties in October 2009 and are followed up by systematic reporting and internal compliance audits. Key checks shall be gradually extended. During the autumn of 2009, the Directorate has developed a comprehensive control strategy for 2009-2015. The aim is to establish over time a level of control based on a risk and materiality assessment to ensure a balance between efficiency and safety/quality requirements in the procedure. In the 2010 letter of award, the Ministry demands that the Employment and Welfare Act be able to refer to improved internal control in the performance management in 2010 compared with 2009 and that the impact of the internal control measures in place be made visible in order to improve the quality of the performance management. Work on strengthening internal control in the Labour and Welfare Act is a long-term work, and it will take time for the establishment to reach the desired level of control. It is also related to today's ICT systems in the building. The development of more fully-valued and integrated ICT solutions remains. It is important that further developments in this area are carried out with good governance and control, and that careful planning is carried out in this area. I would like to inform the Council of the developments in this matter in the future budgetary procedures. The Employment and Welfare Act has had a very complex organisation of the accounting functions based on the organisation of the earlier stages. The Directorate is now uniting the range of accounts into a separate guideline. This will contribute to more effective governance and a clearer sharing of responsibilities in order to improve the quality of the budget's accounts. The Committee also mentions issues related to the implementation of the Nav reform itself. I have now set up an expert group to look at the division of labour between the Nav office and administrative units. The expert group will also be involved from and have dialogue with a reference group composed of representatives of users and employees. The group shall have a two-part delivery. I will inform you in the revised national budget about the group's first delivery of current worksharing and its experience. Based on the group’s final report, which will be available by the end of June, and after the report has been consulted, I will return to the follow-up to the final report in the 2011 budget proposal. Both the National Audit Office and the Committee have been concerned with the need to enhance their competence in the management of labour and welfare. I agree that this is a very central prerequisite for the administration to be able to solve its tasks. These are various measures to increase the competence of those who are now employed in the administration, and at least as much as I stressed in my statement during the committee hearing, that labour and welfare management will be recruiting skilled labour in the future. I have now received the external investigation on long-term competence challenges in relation to the provision of higher education. The investigation will be sent to the hearing in the first instance. In the further work on this matter, I would like to have close contact with the Minister of Research and Higher Education, and see the follow-up in the context of the work currently under way with an action plan to strengthen relations between research, training and practices in the welfare sector. The Committee considers that the target management of the State of Labour and Welfare could be clearer. For 2010, clear requirements have been set for the priority of the establishment. It was made clear in the 2010 budget proposal, it is passed on in the letter of allocation to the budget and characterises the overall administration of the budget. One of my most important tasks in the future is to ensure that new instruments and legislative changes are introduced in such a way that they support the efforts to achieve the overall objectives of the Nav reform and do not create new problems for the agency. Finally, I would also like to comment on Innst. 142 S for 2009–2010 on Nav’s work for an inclusive working life through work centres and the organisation grant. The Employment Centres in the Labour and Welfare Act are a very important instrument for achieving the objectives of the IA Cooperation and the new IA Agreement. This is also emphasised by the social partners. The role of work centres is made clear in the new IA Agreement. I am committed to finding good solutions on the basis of the desire to ensure the most inclusive working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e460	I would like to thank the Council of State for so openly and honestly recognizing the challenges Nav has faced. I think it is reassuring that the Council of State also confirms in the storeroom that she hopes the Riksrevision can be able to confirm the accounts of Nav for 2009, although there may still be criticism. However, one of the other challenges, which has also been part of the Committee's consultation process, has been that there is still a two-part ownership in Nav, where municipalities are responsible for the social part, while the State is responsible for the rest. During the hearing, the Council of State was very clear and clear on something the Advance Party was very pleased about. What she said was, "I will definitely look into this and evaluate it," and we are very pleased about that. Can the Council also say something about when she will look into this and consider bringing together ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e470	I would like to stress, as I did in the hearing, that precisely this two-part ownership is a major challenge. I have the impression that this has worked far better than you could have thought, based on the problems that could arise. But it's also clear that I want to go closer and look at this. I think it's been wise not to go too fast here, because this is, as I said, one of the things that works, and we have to sort of get some other things into place. But I have already been in contact with both the management of the directorate, with the users and with the employees to get a good decision-making basis to understand how this works in the first place. I want to be restrained from tidalizing just when I'm going to conclude here, because we have to do this in a thorough and proper way. There's also a story behind this division, so this isn't something that you can just make a one-sided decision about from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e477	I asked the Council of State four questions in my article. I got a partial response to two of them. I understood that this so-called two-part delivery from the expert group would consist of the fact that the Stortinget was given their conclusions in the revision, and then the Council of State's recommendation on this matter with the interface – the relationship between the administrative office and the first line service. I ask the Council of State to confirm this. I realized that she said that the goal management is now better, and that the departmental letter follows up the criticism that the Riksrevision has addressed. I'm happy about that. But there are two remaining questions. 1) Is the Council of State certain that the internal control of Nav has now improved? 2) In what way has she taken the initiative, as she said in the hearing, to discuss these issues with the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e486	To what I said about this first round in the context of the revision – for this must be done properly: What is the idea is that this group of experts is working on two levels. It must first identify what the situation actually is today. We already hear here that there are very clear thoughts about how the situation actually is, but we also have to have it confirmed through the expert group. The first interim report, which will be revised, will be their assessment of the actual situation. They will then go on until June and look at what recommendations they might make. I will send that recommendation to the hearing, and then I will come back to this issue in connection with the budgetary procedure for the autumn. The second question was whether I am sure that the internal control in Nav is better, based on what I have heard from Nav. I can't say for sure. Now I have to see how this works, but everything indicates that it's getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e493	Then I understand that the Storting will not be presented with any conclusion as to changes in the tasks within Nav in terms of interface issues, until in the ordinary budget. It might be a good idea to clarify, in case. My question is also about the relationship between the ICT part and the crew situation in Nav. We have now understood that what in the police was supposed to be a strengthening of the police is actually going to be a reduction, because the money that was going to go to more police officers and women is going to upgrade ICT. So my question is, how will the strengthening of ICT work in Nav be? This should be done, for example: an additional appropriation is granted, or is it now to be deducted from the overall operating budget, with the possibility of reducing the number of employees meeting users?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e500	As I underlined in my post, there is clearly a need to do something about the ICT bit in Nav. I do not want to present exactly what is going on in the budget, either in the revised or in the 2011 budget, but it is clear that there will also be a need for new funds to strengthen the ICT system in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e505	I now understand that the Council of State has become hot in the trough, as it is called, as she now expresses a lot less willingness to discuss things with the Stortinge than she did in her first appearance during the hearing in January. So I don't get an answer to the question how this is going to be discussed with Stortinget. So I now find that the Stortinge in ours will not be presented with any recommendation from the Council of State on the conversion of the working procedures in Nav, because what we will be presented with in the revision is a description of the situation. And I have to admit that I think we've got more than enough descriptions of the situation, not least in meeting employees' organisations, which, of course, fully documented that the problems between first line service and administrative units have the employees described as a problem in meeting citizens, users, quite a long time. So I just don't understand that the Council of State has to spend over a year coming to the Stortinget with a recommendation, contrary to what she said in the hearing. There is no recommendation in the spring session, but only in the autumn session. I ask the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e512	I do not hope that I have reportedly become hot in the sweater, so I will be concerned with less contact with Stortingen about this, because I am busy having good contact. That's why I'm also concerned that what we're going to do now, if we're going to do something about this interface, must be right and good. That's why this expert group, which has competence in this area, should first form a good picture of what the actual situation is, because otherwise you can do things that are not going to be right here. I have to have that basis before I can make any recommendations. They are unable to do it properly until I present this in the context of the revised budget, but then the Stortinget will have the opportunity to get that factual basis. In June we will then send this to the hearing, and then we will make our recommendations in relation to the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e517	The experience the opposition has done over these five years is that the warmer you get in the sweat, the less you get concerned with the Storting – that's the life experience from here. But that's not really what I was going to ask. What I was going to ask about is privacy. Much of the information that Nav's sitting on about us as people is among the more sensitive things. It's about our diseases, about the challenges we have in every way possible. Now we've seen recurring episodes where information has gone astray. We've seen that you don't have a conscious enough attitude about the information you're sitting with. It is felt that a lot of information is being sent unencrypted by e-mail – person number, etc. – which is almost like standing on the street and yelling it out. My question is whether the Council of States will also focus on the unanimous comitology on this, when she is going to go through Nav and see what changes need to be made, whether privacy will be raised in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e524	I am concerned about privacy and, in particular, about a group that, as the representative himself pointed out, does not voluntarily choose to have that contact with the directorate. In particular, I want to take one point that has been a lot up, this with unencrypted mail. This is that Nav sends a so-called pay slip showing what kind of benefits you receive. This is not a personal ID number. This is a service that is voluntary. You have to actively say that you want it by e-mail to get it by e-mail. If you don't get it on paper. As I see it, and have been informed in the matter, it seems to be a satisfactory arrangement. In addition, it is clear that we need to focus very much on the fact that papers with person-sensitive information do not go astray.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e531	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e534	It is that many things have already been said in this debate so far, but on my side I would like to stress something that is important to be said in a debate that has so many critical elements in it. The consultation on the National Audit Office's report demonstrates very clearly that there is a broad political uprising in the United Kingdom that the governance reform is a major reform, that the Nav reform is a major administrative reform, and that the objectives set for the reform are central, important and correct. What lies in the whole history of the Nav reform, and I would like to say underlined by all parties in this debate, is to put the user in the centre. What is important and essential is that we have a safety net in Norwegian society that provides those who need help from society, that it is effective and that it is a good system. In other words, there is nothing here that casts doubt on the opening up of the Nav reform, and that it was – although there has been discussion, which is partly reflected in the debate – a proper organisational and administrative approach. I noticed that the representative Foss in his first post said something that was certain in and of itself true, that it was used a lot of time introverted in the Nav system in the first phase, and that it might not be possible to satisfactorily perform the outgoing and central functions in the first phase. It's probably right, but it's hard and quite illusory to think that you're going to get around such a phase when you're going to set up such a new system. I believe that it is important to recognise also for the Storting, which has said that the reform should be organised as it is now organised, that it will require such a transitional period. There's a need for some patience associated with this, and I think we should just admit the Nav system and its management just that, because it's hard to imagine that you can get beyond it all. So I would say that what also characterizes the whole committee discussion, and that is reflected here in the room today, is that we now have what I want to call a common experience – I want to use that expression. Although there is some disagreement here, the whole big debate – the big deal’s management of the question – is marked by a very large degree of consensus. I have noticed with satisfaction that the opposition spokespersons have also spoken well about the work of the rapporteur in this context. If so, I would say that it is also the case that we, who are in position and, of course, have a primary responsibility for the implementation of the Nav reform because we are in the government position, must also have the ability to show humility to the weaknesses that such systems may show. That is what is reflected in both the case handling of the case by the rapporteur and the position that exists, and which, as has been said from others, is essentially unanimous. I believe that the whole political system serves to show both humility and self-criticism when the situation requires it, because the matter is far too serious to begin with any kind of party political, tactical or strategic maneuvering. It wouldn't serve the users, it wouldn't serve the community, and it wouldn't serve the welfare state's development if we behaved like that. There is also the philosophy behind the Workers' Party's attitude on this issue. When all of this is said, I'm just going to repeat some main points from my side that are already referred in and separately. The Council of State has recently confirmed its intensive work in dealing with the control procedures internally in the systems, and it is working very seriously on the issue, so that there are no further comments from the National Audit Office that raise doubts as to whether Nav's accounts can be accepted. It must be for all of us how incredibly serious it is when the Riksrevision, which is the Supervisory Body of the Storting in this area, says to the Stortinget that they cannot accept – they do not use that word, but that is what it means – the accounts, which thus includes one third of the state budget. This is a very serious matter. I think it's very rare that we've had such a situation here in the main hall -- I don't have all the history inside, but I'm pretty sure it's very serious. Neither during the committee's work on this, nor during the hearing, have I realized that there are people who don't understand it seriously. Everyone understands this seriously, so I now feel very confident that the entire administrative system – the Council of State has confirmed it here now – is working very actively and seriously to deal with this in such a way that, although, as the Council of State said, it may be possible to comment on the 2009 accounts too, a significant step forward. It is clear that this will be closely followed by the control committee. This with the users has been mentioned by several of the speakers, and individually we can only sign on a lot of what has already been said. But there really is the main problem. For what is probably – and now here I want to use the term ‘presumably’ in the big picture – is happening internally in a system as big as the Nav system is, is that it is ‘naturally enough’ – and now I use the expression in the goose eyes – a bureaucracy arises. It is very demanding for any management and any government council to counteract such red tape. However, it must be made clear in the continuation of the focus on preventing internal rivalry and red tape from effectively operating the Nav system, and on harming the user. How it should be handled, I'll be careful to say. I understand this expression "interface". It belongs to the bureaucratic system that you learn such expressions. So interfaces have become the word of this system for this challenge. In terms of the interface, I think the answer is already clear in and out. They've misjudged the need to make the right decisions and have the right people on the first line. Point! Of course, I welcome the reviews announced by the Council of State here, both in the revised budget and later in the budget, and which I believe to be a satisfactory way of dealing with matters in concrete terms. I want to underline it. But at the same time, I'm pretty sure there's the problem. Because it is clear that if there is not one door and one person who can at least handle the simple things, there are problems. I'm not going to say it's surprising, because it's not so surprising, but I and my employees here in Stortinget have experienced getting a lot of enquiries from individuals telling the strangest stories. The strangest stories! It's an expression of a situation that's probably frustrating inside the Nav system, but it's about putting the user in the focus and adding the other things. It's a big job for the government council, which we're dealing with, but I also see a little to the right here and say that of course it's a big and demanding job for administrative management as well. Finally, I just want to say that this with the work centres is very important. There is also a criticism in the National Audit Office’s report regarding the management of work centres. I stress that criticism. To put it very briefly, I stress the need for the Nav system to handle it in a good and proper way in the time to come, for this is an institution that will help those who are weakest, who have a very great need for help, and who have a demand for help. Finally, I would like to say that I am quite sure that the Nav reform over time will turn out to be successful. We have all learned through the work that has now been done, through the work that the Riksaudition has done in a commendable way, and through the work that the Committee has done. I think this debate in many ways shows a great willingness to go through this – with the necessary humility, as I said – and deal with it in such a way that it can become a very important and proper reform that strengthens the welfare state. That's what was meant to be, and that's what's going to happen in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e561	I have to admit that I am more than average engaged and interested in the matters we are dealing with today. Of course, it is related to the fact that these are extremely important areas of society that bear fruit in our welfare state, but also because I have a professional background from Aetat, which has become part of Nav. I would also like to commend the rapporteur. There has been a very interesting process we have been through, with a thorough consultation with user organisations, employees' representatives, administrative management and three former government councils. I have also spent a lot of time talking to employees in the Nav system, communicating with them per day. correspondence – e-mail, letter, etc. – and I have also visited several Nav offices, like what I realized the representative of the Christian People’s Party has done. Initially, a few words about Nav's work centres. This is a relatively small part of Nav's business, but an important player in creating an inclusive working life. Centres shall contribute to the reduction of sick leave, increase the number of people with reduced working capacity and help them to maintain work and make older people longer at work. I record that the survey says that the business has a marginal effect. There are also doubts about the priorities and systematicity of activities. It appears, among other things, that by the fact that establishments with a high level of sick leave have only received to a limited extent a higher proportion of the services provided by the centres of employment than enterprises with minor problems in this area. With regard to other issues that should be noted, it is obvious that 693 companies have agreed to offer IA sites in 2008, while only 96 sites have been used. Furthermore, the studies show that work centres have given little priority to action to increase the real retirement age and that the use of resources for this purpose has been reduced during 2008. When we in this room have warm words about senior policy and about getting people to stand longer in their professional lives, it is of course discouraging to read these kinds of reports. There is also a lack of information flow and interaction between the centres and Nav locally on which IA companies should be prioritised. The report also addresses ICT challenges in this area, including: that registration practices are not consistent. The studies have also revealed weaknesses in the management of the organisation grant. So in sum, this is a relatively welcome report, and it is quite clear that there is a need to strengthen management and business in this area. So some general comments around Nav regarding Document 1 Appendix 2 for 2009–2010. I have a lot of understanding that during the period you've been through, it hasn't been okay to be Nav-employee, with all the negative statements you've seen in the newspapers, in reader's letters, and with complaints from the audience in general. That this may have contributed to a high level of sick leave, I do not ignore it either. In the conversations and during the visits I have had at Nav offices, there has been a lot of interesting, and of the things that seem to many people have strong opinions about, the fact is that you serve two gentlemen – the municipality and the state. This complicates day-to-day operations, is claimed, and contributes greatly to many of the challenges you face. I have registered that the Council of State is looking at that issue. This was also pointed out by the representative of the Christian People's Party, who had visited a Nav office where the municipality was on the third floor and the state was on the fourth floor – as far as I remember from his posts. It shows that you have a long way to go in this area, and you may not be able to solve that problem until you have one common ownership structure and management structure. Of course, this with a long period of time is a problem, not only for those who work in Nav, and who have large amounts of business, but also, of course – and absolutely centrally – for those who need this money, who are entitled to this money, and who have to wait a long time for the clarification of their different applications to Nav. During my visit to Nav, I have to say that the most eye-catching thing for someone who is used to modern computer systems – such as us, among other things. has here at Stortinget – was to see the ICT systems being run, for example. Info check. On the job side, it is not so bad, but on the social security side, I think it was directly alarming to see data solutions from the 1980s – which in terms of data are considered to be antiquarian and out of date. This, of course, leads to an inefficient business, to a weakening of the supply to users, and also to challenges for employees. Finally, a few comments: During the verification hearing we had, we noticed that former State Council Dag Terje Andersen made it clear that soon after taking over as State Council after Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in June 2008, he realized that the internal control procedures in Nav were too weak. He also made it clear that there was a need to take a number of measures to address these weaknesses in the winter of 2008/2009. This reveals something relatively essential, namely that there are critical conditions around the work carried out by Hanssen State Council in its activities. At the end of the day, I have great respect for the rapporteur's suggestion that we should not become involved in what people the Government employs. At the same time, it must be timely in this matter – which is so great and important for Norway – to point out that the most stable factor in Nav throughout the reform period has been Nav's Director, and that this is thus central to what we are now discussing. It must be allowed to ask when enough is enough. It is quite obvious that such a report, which we are dealing with today, would not be allowed to continue in any other type of business – public or private – in any other way. So I have to make myself unthinkable that you do not choose to change the crew here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e589	When I first met at the Stortinget in 1997 and was a member of the Social Committee, we often heard that many were calling for more coordination of the agencies now merged into Nav. Many called for coordination, co-location or full pooling of social security offices, employment offices and social services — this to make it easier to use services and to reach these three levels by entering one door. There were many notions that the advice given to users was sprinkling from these three different units, and that the decisions were often strongly opposed to each other. This was not a good situation for many users, and they often felt that they were pushed from one floor to the other and back again. This seemed unsustainable to many, so there was a need for conversion. This shows that everything wasn't perfect then, and this we should be able to learn even more from in the process we're in. I felt that this was something that took up the politicians, the users of the services and others more and more, because the organisation was inappropriate for the users, and in addition it was not effective. I therefore feel that the background for the comprehensive Nav reform was well-founded, and almost a requirement. So a common first line with Nav offices in all municipalities would give users a place to turn to, and I'm of those who think this will be a good solution for the users when it gets to work for a while. When we think about the dimensions and about all the people affected by such a great transformation, you can't expect everything to be squeaky in a transitional phase. I want to take the opportunity to commend the users, who have shown patience and understanding in the phase we have behind us. I understand that it reacts when strongly needed and legitimate settlement comes too late, that the help is not there when it is needed most. I also want to commend all Nav employees, who have had a terrible tough work situation, but who have retained their will and continued to work with their experience to improve the process and services for the users. Having said that, I think it is good that the Riksrevision has addressed the matter to review how the conversion has worked so far, and I am fully committed to what the rapporteur said in this context. There is a broad consensus on the objective of the Nav reform, but it is not easy to merge three levels from two levels to one. Therefore, there might have had to be some start-ups – and perhaps there were too many demands for progress plans. I record that at some Nav offices it works very well, but at some offices there are still significant challenges. Here it is very important that experience and competence can be transferred within the department and that through this exchange of experience there can still be improvements across the board. After the review of the National Audit Office's report and after the open consultation we had in Stortingen, I feel even more confident that the reform is right, and that it will be a good tool for all parties in time to come. I say this because I expect the weaknesses that have now emerged have been addressed, which I believe the Council of State has explained well today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e610	The Nav reform is the most important reform in our time. The fact that we're gathered here to discuss a serious report from the National Audit Office is a confirmation of how difficult it is to translate a radical reform from paper to reality. The National Audit Office points to many things that can obviously be better. It is serious when the department cannot get its accounts approved, but more seriously it was that users did not get paid what they needed when they needed it. But behind all our results-oriented target management, there are values that can't be measured, like contact between people, and that you get help to get away from a hopeless life situation. An important goal for me is something that might seem strange to others here in the Chamber, but which is an important barometer for our success, namely that more people are applying for social assistance – not because it is a goal that people should live on the least income of the welfare society, but because it means that more people are looking for help when they need it. Many people have broken back and asked for ‘almises’ from society. No human being should ask for alms — people should ask for help from society to get out of a difficult life situation. Too many people didn't do it in the old social office, and could end up in an even bigger mess. That's why I don't think we should just keep an eye on what can be measured and counted. Man is too multiplicity for it to be done. It is when we are most vulnerable – in life situations where we can lose faith in ourselves and the very basis of life – that Nav should be what we want, namely a door opener to another life. Quality must therefore be as heavy as quantity. I'm glad that the council has an open mind, free from past processes, for how Nav can be better organized. We have to create a simpler hub where the language takes into account that we have to understand what is in the decisions. It is basically about the legal certainty of each individual. It is about ICT solutions that prevent duplication of work and contribute to more personal follow-up, and an organisation where the user can get in touch with those who can help. Is there any other lesson we can draw from this? In the usual need that politicians have to face up to the media as hunting for big headlines, we make an excessive negative picture of what is being done, or we span the expectations too high for what is often feasible in practice. When users and employees meet with negative expectations, there will be poor interaction and high sick leave. Our talk of Nav can sometimes help to give such negative expectations. It is true that many from the first line service have been picked up to the administrative units, but you must not create the impression that there is no quality left. That's not true of my meeting with Nav. The first line service must meet the entire human spectrum. Language problems, drug problems, mental illness and despair may be what employees encounter. Here, a lot of good work is done, in respect of the one coming. This does not mean that individuals cannot meet an employee who has a bad day, but the image of a lack of competence in the first-line service cannot remain standing without the good and demanding work being done. Again, Nav is in a demanding reform process. In the case of redundancy payments, we can expect noise when 95 000 more people have to deliver a report card every fourteen days. The exemption provisions must be treated with sound reason in order to exempt those who are unable to provide short for health reasons. Even with a liberal practice, there will have to be noise. The reform has been adopted in this Chamber and everyone has to be able to count on entry problems. Employees must be able to expect political support from their sponsors when it comes to it. We're not yet there that Nav as an agent can meet each user and say that 'we'll realize your possibilities'. But we're on our way. When we push away the political game as such debates as this can often be, the heroes stand back – not here in this room, but out among the 17 000 front soldiers in each Nav office. By visiting Nav in Sarpsborg and Rygge, I am strengthened in my belief that we will succeed in this. Here the employees, who in many other offices, worked overtime to get on the line until the redundancy payments are to be introduced. There have been employees who have worked hard to secure archives, and thus the privacy of Nav's users. In my meetings with the employees comes a strong desire to realize Nav's vision, to realize people's opportunities. Let these fires remain from today as our main resource in the fight for a more inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e633	Good, equivalent public services lie a social democrat warm around the heart. It's probably the most important thing in a society that's shaped and should give everyone equal opportunities. The Nav reform is a concrete result of this – the desire to create opportunities for people in Norway who are either in a serious life crisis or, for that matter, Nav needs other reasons. The bearer of our welfare state is that people can get new opportunities, and you can get back to work if you need help and support from the auxiliaries. It has been a strength in the implementation of the Nav reform that a broad political majority has been behind it. The size has discussed Nav on several occasions, and there has been a broad disintegration around the basic idea of reform. There's some of what I also think is happy when someone is about to start summing up the debate here today. It is still the case that the political parties and the Stortinget believe in the success of the Nav reform. That doesn't mean you don't see that there's cutting in the sea, and that there are things that still need to be improved in Nav, but the belief that you have to succeed and arrive at better work and welfare management than the one we had before is present. I also want to say that it is very easy to forget how the world was in the old days – and old days are in this case four years. I worked in Nav in social work. I remember – now I am back in 2003 – that I had to book for a conversation with Aetat at the time, and I had to wait three weeks with the user to get that conversation. Today it is solved by working closely: you sit around the same table, you have a common responsibility for the user who enters the door. The issue of throwing ball has also been raised here today. It was like people had to go from office to office – very often they went that way alone. Very often it was one office that sent the person to the next office, and did not follow over. The world was definitely not perfect before either. The same was true of ICT systems – they did not communicate in the old days either. Now they communicate better because there has been considerable investment in ICT – not enough, because there is no fully-fledged process management tool in Nav. But it's a start – you're on your way. There is an important and proper development. There's someone who's been up to it with health benefits. It is clear that users, who previously could come to the Nav office and get help to fill out a form, come there with their travel invoices and get a gift voucher over the disk, perceive that what has happened is a backsliding and has given them poorer service. We should remember that most of us, the vast majority of those over a million people in Norway who get a free card every year, prefer not to go to the Nav office. We need good ICT solutions that make this happen more automatically than today. When, at the same time, we can connect it to Nav's need to release resources to give individuals better help in the Nav office – perhaps get more people to work and give better and closer follow-up – then it's good, it's positive. It may be in the light of the post-war, that we have not been politically clear enough to say: OK, some users have to change behaviour, even in connection with the Nav reform. We're not going to succeed if we're going to spend a lot of public resources on simple tasks that we'd rather be able to solve using ICT, and thus are left without resources to help those who might really need heavy and long-term support and help to get back to work. I think it's the right priority, and I think it's good policy to streamline the public sector while at the same time providing users with better services. So I want to say that the work on new instruments in Nav is the heart of the Nav reform. It provides better services to the population. I have met up with many people who have said that the qualification programme has given them new opportunities, that labour-oriented rehabilitation is an offer for which there has been an alarming need, and that more flexible labour market measures mean a lot to them. The last of the content reforms anchored in St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007 – work clearance money – was put into place on 1 March this year. There is also an important development. People are given the right and duty to a job performance assessment. It should provide better services, but at the same time, I think it’s also tricked – ‘stupid’ may not be the right word, but it’s important to bear in mind, as the representative Forsberg pointed out, that among the 95 000 people who are now on redundancy pay, there may be people in need of a disability pension. In this case, it is necessary to apply the exemption rules around it in a flexible way, particularly in relation to those groups that have been on temporary unpaid pay, and which might actually have had an unearned pension or a wage subsidy – or another type of instrument. I would like to underline that from this pulpit. Summary: Yes, it is serious when an entity fails to approve its accounts. A lot has happened after that. The world wasn't perfect before, and users get better day by day. The development is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e659	First, I would like to agree with my whole-hearted support for the contribution from the representative, Forsberg, who put the whole matter in the right perspective, especially because he also stressed that the employees here are struggling. I believe that if both employees and users had been systematically involved in the process in the future – i.e. those who are actually going to do this in practice – in a clearer and clearer way in the past, some of the problems you have seen in the process could have been avoided. So to some of the criticisms that have come here, among other things. from the Progress Party and the National Audit Office that companies could offer more IA sites, but to which Nav was unable to refer. It was stated that there were 639 IA sites and only 90 were referred to. Based on the information I have, there is an explanation for this. It's usually unfortunate that it's like this, and you should want this to match better. One of the problems associated with this is that there is no match between the labour that these enterprises are actually asking for, and those who need such a place. It just means that many more such jobs are needed in a much wider range of working life in order to be able to meet the needs of the individual subject who needs such a place. I have visited Mandal Municipality, which has such a system, where those who are sick can get an offer for a job even in the private sector, and someone has chosen it. But it is very important that this fits both for the company and for the employee. So there have been some different issues here, but the representative of the Christian People's Party had a little visit to the process that the Stortinget had when we adopted the reform itself, namely that a big message was first presented about a reform that the Stortinge rejected, and that the government then came back with a new reform, and that it should in some way mean that the Stortinge had adopted something that was wrong and that was not allowed to be implemented. There's a description that at least we from SV can't stand behind. I expect that the government that sent out the big message was behind it, and that what was presented was fully feasible, and that it was actually supposed to be what to do. Then there is an evaluation of the Nav reform. So it's not just the National Audit Office's reports that we have as the basis for what we're going to do in the future. But there is an evaluation, and the mid-term evaluation was presented before Christmas. There are probably some indications in the reform that in the governance in the interior of the building some of the ideas that were contained in the first big business message that Stortingen rejected. There are some indications that this could be so. It is clear that it is something that will be important to follow forward, so that what we are doing is what the Storing has decided. So there's been a lot of discussion here now about there being two owners in Nav. There are two sides to that matter. One is that it is possible with shared leadership. Now it is that most municipalities have not opted for shared leadership, and I am happy for that. Some have, and it was the municipal sector and the KS that were very concerned that we had to open it up when we were going to implement the reform. From my and SV's side, we have always thought that we must have one management in the Nav offices, and that this must be the result. The second question raised by the Progress Party is whether to make a major change to the whole reform and to put the whole social service and then some of the changes that we have subsequently made by law, new Nav law for the social services with other services, too, into the Nav office, is a major political debate that we need to get back to. But it is clear to us that the practical problems in the Nav offices related to different working hours and remuneration and that kind of thing create difficulties in the individual workplace. Then left has also had a post here, where you talked about both the need for greater understanding – and I don't disagree with that – and greater individual correction. It's important. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a great danger in reducing the rights of the law, especially those linked to the most disadvantaged. We know that people with strong self-sufficiency, who may not be in a crisis situation, can handle it; they're good at talking for themselves, and they also know how to behave in a difficult situation. If you are in a crisis and have had a difficult life, it happens that you can also get into such a difficult situation that you really need these rights that stand there, regardless of how you behave, or how difficult you can have them in the acute situation. I fear that a great room of discretion can make those who have the most difficulty not get their rights. I'm very concerned that we have it in mind when we look at how we can change the systems. There are probably many rules here that can be removed in the future, and there are probably many schemes that can be merged and used more at discretion, but the rights of the most disadvantaged we must strengthen and not make weaker. The left says we in Stortinget should be ombudsmen. Yes, on a level where we're going to take over what's happening in society. To put it that way, we've had a patient ombudsman arrangement for many years. That doesn't mean I don't get more e-mails every day about health care. If we make a Nav ombudsman order, I don't think that means we don't get in touch with these people. However, I completely disagree that the individual representative of the depositor should follow up the individual citizen in relation to the administration and assist the individual in the proceedings. We have a little bit of different opinions in this house. If we are to implement such principles, it might be very different if I were to follow this ombudsman role than if a representative of the Progress Party were to do so. I don't think the discrimination that will happen then is right. Therefore, a Nav agent is about that kind of practical follow-up. However, it is also about a systematic collection of the experiences of many users, which can be important inputs to changes in both structure and policy. Finally, raising competence in Nav: The Storting has said several times that there is a need for clear competence requirements for the local Nav offices, and the Stortinget has said that there must be both social and social skills and re-employment skills in these offices, of course, in addition to a number of other skills needed to run such an office. I am very pleased that the Council of State now focuses on this, and in particular that she focuses on the interaction between the educational pathways that have traditionally been inside Nav, which must of course be there in the future, and the interaction with the field of practice, for example. through the HUSK projects that take place at some of our colleges. There is an absolute need for much more interaction between the field of practice and the education to serve the welfare country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e678	The debate here today shows several important things. One of the most important things is that the whole Stortinget intensely wants the Nav reform to succeed. At the same time, there is a significant seriousness of the examination of the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee. Nav has a very important task: to keep his economy in order. They have said important things about it, which I am not going to repeat, and the setting is very clear in its assessment of this. The National Audit Office’s report also sheds light on how Nav has followed up the goals set by the Stortinget for the reform. One goal is, as you know, that Nav should contribute to more people getting into work and activity, and that fewer are coming for social benefits. In this context, Nav, as the engine itself in our welfare system, is a crucial factor. But Nav is not the only factor in succeeding in achieving that goal. Therefore, a lack of achievement at that point alone cannot be attributed to Nav. Both growth and government must take their share of the responsibility that, in a period that we now have behind us, with record demand for labour, we have not been able to include more in the labour market than we actually have. It's a big cross of thought, not to say it stronger. With regard to the second main objective of this reform, namely to provide better user service, Nav – and Nav alone – is responsible for it. Yes, the Stortinget is responsible for granting the rights to be at the bottom and which Nav is to manage and distribute to individuals. However, with regard to the organisation of work based on the objective of guaranteeing users their rights and good service, responsibility lies with the Council of State and Nav. That's why, in my view, this point in the Riksrevision's criticism is the most serious. So I do not want to underestimate the seriousness of the fact that you cannot accept your accounts. It is in the Committee's position, and some have shown this today, that: ‘The establishment of administrative units has had an impact on the distribution of competences in the EEA in 2008, and the Riksrevision takes a serious view on the consequences. The Committee’ – this is an overall committee – ‘although this has been a disadvantage to users and has led to undue length of procedure in the performance management by sending cases from the local offices to the so-called administrative units for proceedings’. The Committee points out that this was a topic during the consultation and assumes that the ministry is considering changes in the interface. In my opinion, the creation of special units for the Nav procedure has gained a far greater extent than what was ever intended by us as working on this plan initially. This has led to the disappearance of competence, authority and responsibilities from the first line and the creation of new throwball problems, increased bureaucracy, major frustrations for users and employees, and probably significant inefficiency. I challenge the Council of State that has now taken this very cheaply, and in one way I would say offensively and quite bravely have allowed the external view to be assessed by including the user expertise in the assessment of this, because it is the user experience that is really the decisive assessment of how this works for those for whom the system works. I see that various professors have been included in the expert committee, while the user experts have to be careful with the reference place. I don't think that's wise, Councillor. Then I also have to say that in terms of user experience, it's about sitting in the user's place and judging how things work. It is well and good that we all intend to separate health care, health transport and other such tasks out of Nav and clean up these tasks elsewhere, but the Storting has a responsibility to look at how it works from the user's point of view. It's great, as Laila Gustavsen says, that we release work by getting ICT solutions, etc. But what about the large group of users who are not approaching a PC, and who get absolutely fucked – excuse me, President, it may be on the president's list, but then I apologize in advance – by at all approaching, what should I say, a keyboard code, where you can't talk to people and get help for relatively simple and banal things, but actually quite basic things in everyday life? I remember that a large part of the users are at an age when ICT is Greek. Then I also have to say that from the point of view of the user you can always owe resources, you can always blame for legislation, but there is no excuse for bad behavior. I say this knowingly, and I fully agree with what has been said about them, that the heroes of the Nav system do this job every single day in an excellent way, most of them are satisfied. But there are many people -- there's a little too many people -- who leave a Nav office and feel a little smaller than when they got in. It shouldn't be like that, because those who work in the Nav office are the users' servants, they're the people's servants, and they have to behave with ordinary folk. Actually, it was supposed to be that you felt like a slightly bigger person when you left a Nav office than when you got in. I say this in deep respect for the complexity of the job to be done there – I know a lot about it. But it must be that good human treatment is a key requirement for those who are to treat people on behalf of big business and government and the public. Finally, much of what has been said here is about something other than the whole issue of the Stortinget, namely how to follow up the reform. I would like to endorse the initiative taken by the Council of State, and repeat the praise for it, and at the same time I would like to give the Council of State an assurance that if she is going to implement this reform, she will require increased resources in relation to the necessary renewal of the ICT systems, which are in progress, but which can, of course, require more than what is planned, she will have to come to the Storting, and she will receive the Christian People's Party's support for increased resources in this way. We must not get into the situation that has now arisen in the police, where ICT is a reason why, after the police chamber, the police chamber has to cut down on posts, while the Stortinge has adopted the budget in the belief that there was an increase in resources here – yes, it was the efforts of the times on the police. Nor should we get into the situation that is now going on in parts of the hospital, where the Stortinget is invited to agree to significant organisational changes, and then it turns out that these organisational changes require far more money than anyone has imagined, and this goes beyond patients. 500 posts are to be cut down on Oslo University Hospital. If this kind of situation occurs in Nav, the alarm must go before it gets as far as it has done in Oslo University Hospital and in several of the country's political chambers. Finally, this work must not underestimate the need for resources for the cultural and competence reform that the Nav reform also represents. Implementing such a complex reform of what is in many ways the heart of our society requires considerable care also in relation to what is not the hard core, i.e. organisational structure and IT, but what has to do with people, the competence and culture of the organisation. I am concerned that the use of resources has been stepped down too early, and will give it clear advice that the side of the matter should not be underestimated in order to succeed. With the unmistakable attitude in Stortinget that we sincerely want to succeed, and succeed together, we are really doomed to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e705	The President would point out that ‘fnight’ is not on the list of non-parliamentary terms — for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e708	I'm not going to extend the debate, and I'm not going to repeat what I said in my first post, and I'm not going to comment on so many of the other posts. Here, there has been a broad consensus both on what was – and that is what the Committee on Control and Constitution has had as its task – and there is a broad consensus on Nav as an organisation and on what is going on. There is also consensus that the Council of State has shown against, because she has grasped the relationship between the administrative unit and the local office as quickly as she has done, so that we can look forward to improvement. Because, as very, very many have been involved, users feel that neither competence nor decisions can be made at the Nav offices, is probably one of the main problems, at least when we hear all the users who have contacted us. I am also going to make a mistake in the setting from the government parties. Next, final section of the Innst. 143 S - Case No. 2 we're talking about – the government parties should be involved in the comment on the lack of user-friendliness. By an incursion, we fell out. There should then have been a unanimous vote; there should have been a committee comment. Let me take from that very note, because it's important that people who need help meet with respect and get help. That's really what's in that note. The summit said something like it's important that we sit in the user's place, and I think it's general in the public sector: we're going to occasionally put ourselves in the user's place, the usual man and woman looking for public offices. For this, as the chairman of the committee has said, is also the backbone of our welfare system. I think the example from Political Quarter, which Per-Kristian Foss brought up today, is illustrative of the fact that the very weakest users suffer most in such situations. I was one of those who spent a lot of time in the autumn of 2008, together with others. Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, Anette Trettebergstuen and Marianne Marthinsen, in order to obtain additional millions of dollars for action to get prostitutes out of prostitution and into training and work training at the moment the Act against the purchase of sex entered into force on 1 January 2009. It was also necessary to have individual and adapted measures. If it really is that there's been 2 million. kr unused for one year in the Grünerløkka social office, it is very serious and something we have to address. Both the Scientific Committee and the Council of State should consider this matter as soon as possible. I will also contact the Municipality of Oslo in this connection. So finally, more people here have said that Dag Terje Andersen took a lot of grips in the summer of 2008. Former State Councillor Andersen presented St.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, and among the measures taken by the Stortingen in connection with the treatment, the interface between the administrative unit and local offices was to be looked at. I say this to the Council because it's been up in the past, so there's reason to do something about it. The second was to detect and remove inefficient procedures. The third was to strengthen the development of competence, or to put it another way, as the proposition says: ‘filling the gaps in competence’. It was an improvement in electronic self-service procedures. Then there was the postponement of the introduction of redundancy pay by 1 March – it should also be interesting to follow how it develops – and it was simplified procedures for day-to-day pay. The Committee has not mentioned these measures at this stage, but we have said that we assume that the measures adopted in connection with the submission of St.prp. No 51, they've been followed up, and they're continuing. That's essentially the most important message I can give here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e723	I felt the need to take the word and elaborate a little on what the Højbråten pointed out about health reimbursements and my post. I believe that one should be careful to measure the quality of the service provided, assuming that everyone who needs the service will continue to go to the Nav office. I think that those who need it, of course, need help, but, as I was in my post, it's best for everyone to avoid going to the Nav office, i.e. getting an ICT system that has a direct settlement between the doctor, the pharmacy and the individual hospital, that excesses are registered in a system, that the money, that is. any excess, comes into the account and the free card is entered in the post. That's the goal of what you do in terms of health refunds. In my opinion, we provide better services to people, not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e730	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 1976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e748	Exactly two years ago, the Stortinget examined a right-wing proposal proposing that the Government should take the initiative to establish day-to-day services with labour-oriented rehabilitation on a national basis. The proposal was usually voted down by the red-green majority in the case, but there was still something positive about it: labour-oriented rehabilitation was put on the agenda. One of the proposals was therefore actually followed up by the Government, even though the majority voted for it in the Grand Prix. It was proposed that the Government set up a separate project item to finance measures for occupational rehabilitation in the context of the 2009 State Budget. In the 2009 government budget, labour-oriented rehabilitation was adopted as a nationwide labour market measure. I take history with me precisely because it shows that despite some tactical manoeuvres in the Storting, there is a broad political consensus that labour-oriented rehabilitation is an important tool in reducing sick leave and slowing down the spread of disability. This is precisely why it is alarming when we are made aware in January 2010 that in several countries the measure will now be cut. The background is, to a large extent, simple: in 2009, where there were own budgetary resources, in addition to the funds transferred from the year ahead, there was a real 40 pst in 2010. lower appropriations than in 2009. The feedback we receive from the action organisers is alarming. Countries that have set up early work-oriented rehabilitation projects, which have built up their skills and admitted participants, must now close their doors. What effect this has on each participant, both motivating and possible, can easily be imagined: hopelessness, powerlessness, the experience that the public utility is not there for them. The same can be said of the organisers: they follow decisions and assumptions, they invest in methodology and competence, and then experience that orders are replaced by cutbacks. Nav asks for renegotiation of agreements, which actually means that the measure will not be applied. In addition, there are signs from Nav that the measure is not offered because it is too expensive. Where's the logic? The size has wanted this measure. We have referred to the figures presented by the Government through budgets and communications. And then we see that there will be a real cut in the measure even before 1–2 months out in 2010, because the money has been spent. I hope this won't be a pattern under the red-green government. We are constantly seeing more job-seekers in line for action – the most recent figures are 98 000 people. There are 30,000 more than the measured unemployment rate in Norway. In a comment on the new figures, the Director of the NHO states that the management companies are: ‘There is no lack of new measures and proposals from the government, but we are asking serious questions about their implementation.’ It's not just in the Attractors they're asking this question. We in the right ask the same question, and I'll believe many of the sick people who are now meeting with a cold shoulder, also do it. The measure Employment-related rehabilitation is one of the few responses that can be launched during the healthcare period. Among those involved in the action, there are around 70 pst. who comes back to work. These are people who often end up with a disability pension – involuntary disability pension! Still, there's only about one pst. by long-term sick notifiers who are offered such measures. This alone should ensure that the measure is strengthened and that more people are offered it. So instead, we're going to feel like we're going to cut it. I would assume that the Council of State in its reply will show that the earmarked appropriations for labour rehabilitation in 2010 are, after all, slightly higher than in 2009. But what does it do when experience suggests that the level of a preliminary maintenance and reprocessing has been dependent on funds transferred from previous years? Should this not be taken into account by the Government in the 2010 calculations, perhaps especially as there has been a strong desire on the part of both the Storting and the organisers of measures to invest in this measure? Last week — or rather last week — State Council Bjurstrøm and the Government presented the new IA agreement, the aim of which is to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. until 2013. I am pleased that the agreement is based on several of the proposals previously put forward and promoted by the Right, on previous intervention, active follow-up and organisation, and the involvement of the sick person. However, there was little new in the new agreement, in addition to the fact that the stop points have moved earlier during the search period. Another good advice that many have tried to give is also more reintroduction. The waiting time for job-oriented measures and reintroduction is almost three years. Despite the fact that it has been known for more than a month that it is being cut into labour-oriented rehabilitation, there was no signal from the Council of State on how this should be solved. Strictly speaking, the Council of State and the Government have not been visible throughout the sick leave debate after the Prime Minister's New Year speech, where it was invited to work cooperation. There are many who will cooperate with the Government. The right will cooperate, and that is why we are addressing this here today, in the same way that we have previously proposed as well as labour-oriented rehabilitation as a number of measures that can help reduce sick leave. The action organisers will cooperate. Within a few years, management companies have developed a high level of competence in implementing this type of action. And they have the capacity to help people. The sick will cooperate themselves. As many people have been in several times: there is no one who will be ill, or who will have a disability pension. In fact, many people are in a position to re-train, whether in relation to work tasks, workplaces or to master health challenges, the work situation and life. Many will cooperate! But where is the Government itself in the debate on cooperation? Or what solutions does the Council of State meet with them? How is input used to solve challenges and design new solutions? On a number of occasions, the right has put this on the agenda, and we will continue to do so as long as it is necessary. I therefore attend the Council of State's response to the interpellation, and will end by recalling that the first occasion for the Government to do something about this particular topic is already in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e804	In the light of the proposals made by the Syke Absewerbehörskommission in the autumn of 2006, the Stortinget granted 604 million. kr to a scheme of grants for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services for sick persons, also referred to as the accelerated scheme. The funds are distributed approximately 1/3 to the Employment and Welfare Act over the top. 605 headings 70 and 2/3 of the regional health establishments above cap. 732, heading 79. For 2008 Stortinget granted 742 million. kr to the scheme, which increased in 2009 to 777.5 million. kr. In the revised national budget in 2009, 106.5 million were committed. of this amount allocated for other IA purposes. During 2007, the Labour and Welfare Unit established the services of clarification, labour-oriented rehabilitation and follow-up for sick-seekers within its part of the budget framework. As these were new services, it took time for the agency to get started. Both regional health businesses and the State of Employment and Welfare have concluded contracts with a large number of suppliers of occupational rehabilitation throughout the country, including day- and day-based services, through competitive tendering. Under the Accelerators scheme, the number of people returning is per year. More than 50,000 sick people have been offered health and rehabilitation services since the start of 2007 in the sick leave follow-up on August 2009. During 2007 and 2008, the number of problem drug users in the EU increased by about one percentage point. 10000 and well 30000 referenced to the scheme. For 2009, we do not have final figures, but only for Fasters back in the direction of healthcare companies, the extent is estimated to be about 25 000 to 30000 referrals. For the State of Employment and Welfare, the average activity in 2009 is close to 1000 people until August. Figures for the whole of 2009 will be available in a short time. From 2009 onwards, the target population for occupational rehabilitation was extended to persons with disabilities and established as a regular job-oriented action funded over the top. 634 item 76, Action budget. This came as an addition to the already established offer for sick people under the hood. 605 heading 70. It is therefore the same offer for the two target groups, but different funding. The State of Labour and Welfare has stated that the financial framework available for the Rapider scheme was exceptionally high in 2009, with a level of around 22 p.m. higher than the amount allocated in the 2010 State budget. This was due to the transfer of unused funds from 2007 to 2008 and beyond to 2009. The transfer of funds allowed for higher activity under the scheme in 2009 than in previous years. During 2009, the establishment escalated the activity of the services, making use of the funds. This led to the need to adapt to a significantly lower available framework in 2010 compared to 2009. The 2010 budget represents a nominal increase in allocated funds of 216.5 million. NOK 220.9 million. kr, i.e. at approximately the same level in real terms. Give the target requirement on the number of action sites and the allocation of labour market measures over the top. 634 item 76 in 2010, the State of Employment and Welfare assessed it in such a way as to limit the allocation of work-related rehabilitation for groups other than sick. However, each country has within its framework the possibility of setting its own priorities for the means of action. That the 2009 effort was higher than the budget allocated for 2009, resulted in more users being offered a faster return to work this year and thus being able to return to work faster. This has to be considered positive. At the same time, I understand that it has created expectations for the suppliers. I understand that this situation, with less funds available in 2010 than in 2009, is challenging for both suppliers, the establishment and users who need such services. The Ministry of Labour follows up the use of measures in general with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. In addition, the Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, sees what can be done within the existing framework as a whole. There is a need for a wide range of instruments for people with disabilities, including those who are sick. The government is committed to further developing offers in occupational rehabilitation and strengthening knowledge of what works in this field. The 2010 budget provides funds for methodological development trials in occupational rehabilitation that are being evaluated. The accelerated return and job-oriented rehabilitation scheme will also be further assessed in the light of the impact evaluation by Social and Business Research AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e825	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and parts of it I had myself broken down in my post, because both the Storting and the Council of State are aware that the activity in 2009 was at a level somewhat higher than the actual budget plan for the same year. But it just shows that this type of action is needed. I am pleased that the Council of State also says that the Government is concerned about spreading the measures within this. I am also aware that the Council of State has met with the reintroduction companies, and it is true that they are also wondering what is happening to this case – of course. Work-oriented rehabilitation is precisely linked to health and rehabilitation. The estimated number of people using this offer in 2009 is, as the Council of State said, no more than an estimate. Some wonder if it will not approach 2,000 people who in 2009 were on this type of action. When this ceiling has to fall, the number has to decrease, due to the lack of money already in January/February 2010, I think that on behalf of these users we should rather see an escalation. Both the Nav feedback locally, from the users and from doctors and employers, it is said that these are good measures. The companies themselves report that 60-70 pst. of those who go into the measures, come back to work. Then rhetorical questions become tempting: does the government believe that reintroduction and early intervention are correct? And is it not as important to set up long-term sick and vulnerable groups to prevent unnecessary disability as anything else in this context? What about the reconnaissance companies, who have to live with contracts where one day they are told to build capacity and competence, just for the next month to be told that here it is just to cut? But the most important thing: what about the individual user who needs this help, and is now informed that the offers have been stopped or greatly reduced due to lack of resources? This is, after all, one of the few measures that allow early intervention. The Councils of State said that the scheme was new and was stepping up in the 2008–2009 phase. That's why there was 145 million. I transferred NOK, because all the money was not used. It gives a real boost to those involved, and I hope that the Council of State can send a message to both the user and Nav and the suppliers that this will be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e834	I would like to stress at once, in response to questions from the representative, that this government is very concerned about labour-oriented rehabilitation and believes in it as an important instrument. At the same time, I would also like to stress that this is not the case – and we agree – that in 2010 there is a decrease in that measure, but it is therefore a decrease in relation to an exceptionally high volume in 2009. It is not the case that this priority was given less in 2010 than was actually done in 2009. But I see clearly that there is an important need here. For the Government, it is particularly important, just as the representative also pointed out, the work that has now been done on the IA Agreement, where rapid rehabilitating to prevent long-term sickness absence and exclusion from disability is an important tool. We will therefore come back to this in the further budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e841	I noticed that the interpellant, Graham, in his first post called for the visibility of the Council of State in the sick absence debate. Even I have barely been able to open a single newspaper, listen to a single radio program or watch TV without having to look at the government council Bjurstrom in this particular debate. But something has obviously shaded for the interpellant's eyes. Although the intention of this interpellation is obviously to point to the need for more money and greater effort in the work of labour-oriented rehabilitation, it gives a loving opportunity to raise some timely questions: what do we really get left for the effort? What is the effect of the measures we take? Or rather, would we get more money back if we had used the money alternatively, i.e. on other measures with a greater impact on sick leave and therefore the following exclusion from the labour market? When, in my opinion, it is necessary to ask such questions, it is because we are too rarely evaluating or measuring the impact of measures we are putting into action, and because recent Norwegian labour market research is actually questioning the benefits of what we are doing, or at least asking questions as to what the benefits are. One such measure is the buying-in of health services for sick people waiting for treatment, i.e. more rapid return. Initially, Stortinget granted a total of 600 million. kr for the purchase of such services, knowing that all acute disorders are treated immediately. In retrospect, researchers ask whether the scheme has had the expected effect and whether it has taken into account those patient groups that are primarily responsible for the high level of sick leave. I am not referring to this because I believe that the Raskers back are a useless measure, but because we have never investigated the effect of it. This also applies to most of our rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities. We know too little about them, but we live happily in their faith. In my view, some simple statistical figures should be the starting point for reducing sick leave and preventing exclusion from the labour market. One is ten pst. of whom the medical report stands for 80 pst. of the absence. The second is that three out of four people who have been sick up to a year never return to work. It tells me that early effort is the key to more people coming back to work, and that it is here, and on prevention, that we should primarily increase resource use, also because we have a certain knowledge that people who have been away from work for a long time are becoming more and more disabled by the very absence, and eventually lose their working capacity. The more demanding it becomes, of course, to recover the ability of such persons to work. In addition, I think there is reason to stress our many and different rehabilitation and rehabilitation schemes that are and must be tailored to the individual's needs. Of course, that is also why we have such a varied offer. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders – les: back pain – and mental disorders are the main causes of sick leave here on land. The Danes are also concerned about this. The Danish Research Centre for the Working Environment has therefore produced a White Paper on sick leave and return to work in the field of «muscle and skeletal problems», which it is called on their edges. It is recommended, inter alia, that: that patients with such disorders remain physically active and that in many cases work is considered to be part of the therapy. Furthermore, the White Paper recommends adapting working conditions and workplaces so that people with ‘muscle and skeletal problems’ can work to the greatest extent possible, even if it is not possible to do so with 100 pst. effectiveness. Similarly, we know that many of those who are struggling with mental illness would actually have been better off going to work rather than going sick, provided, of course, that the company and colleagues were able to accept them. There's a solid basis to claim that many actually get sicker by going home and taking care of their illness. The other day, I heard a doctor and professor say that he could often have wanted an opportunity to report patients from home. I think this is useful knowledge when we're going to target our efforts and make our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e860	Work-related rehabilitation is an important measure for those who are sick. Work, well-being and health must be seen in the context, but it does not always work in the public utility today. St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, found it difficult to anchor measures to ensure both medical rehabilitation, physical training and labour-oriented measures, due to traditional sectoral roles and responsibilities between health and labour-related services. The funding of services and actions is a recurring theme. The Progress Party believes that a rehabilitation offer with a link between health, work and well-being should have a comprehensive state funding through the Nav system and that it should not be shared responsibility, as it continues to be. Sufficient resources must be allocated to the budget. According to regional health enterprises, which – as the Council of State said – account for two thirds of the budget line, labour-oriented rehabilitation is not a specialist health service. But in spite of that, they buy back these kinds of services through Fasters. According to the 2007 Labour Research Institute report, Nav has come up with a brief reflection on how health care is to be done, which affects the sick by not obtaining optimal follow-up. We also receive many enquiries that show this, so there is a lot of evidence that this has not improved. At least it's not nearly good enough. Shared responsibilities have also led to the development of parallel ordering systems, with different requirements specifications from suppliers for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services to the sick. Faster returns are actions where Nav has set up its own services to help sick people return to work, where users can be offered job-oriented rehabilitation, work capacity clarification and follow-up. It is also important to prevent disability. This action is part of the IA cooperation between the authorities and social partners. The Progress Party therefore considers that the issue now raised by the interpellant, which is about increasing the allocation of labour-oriented rehabilitation, is highly topical. It is totally unacceptable to cut off an offer that aims to bring sick people back to work, and especially now that the Council of State has announced that the fight against the high level of long-term absence has started. It probably takes more than words to change the search statistics. As we see it, there will also be a need to increase the measures on labour-related rehabilitation and clarification if the new system of redundancy payments is to work after the intention. For those who cannot return to work, it is also a great impression not to have their situation clarified. The focus in recent years on more labour-oriented rehabilitation has led many rehabilitation institutions — albeit reluctantly — to change their concept. But there has been a lot of uncertainty about what should be in the new concept. More emphasis is placed on professional competence rather than medical competence, and employees have developed a more understanding of labour-oriented rehabilitation by taking courses in cognitive thinking and mastering strategies. Services are now offered both as daily and daily services, and that is good, because not everyone wants or needs daily services. Then it is also good that there are good daily services in the neighbourhood. Users often participate in different mastering projects, life-force training projects, IA groups, where motivation, physical training, self-health insights, diet and lifestyle changes help users to adapt to their own health situation in a new way. It was also of great interest that the Committee was consulted on the measures in place in Vestfold Nav, which are targeting those with mild mental disorders. However, many users need more than what these institutions can offer, and sometimes users have completely different needs — they just need time to recover. Reported sick sufferers must be able to get peace and have time to be cured. Several of the rehabilitation centres have stated that they want to get into the course of the disease earlier, and I am therefore in favour of the signals that the Council of State has now given, that it can become relevant. It is important to get action early, because we know that it is easier to get into disability if one goes long sick. Purchases of clarification and follow-up services can only be made as job-less persons and not as long-term unemployed persons, young people, immigrants, social assistance recipients. The Progress Party believes that there is also a need for action against these groups, which represent an ever-increasing proportion of those who eventually end up being unsatisfied and poor. Although this group is not covered by the IA agreement, for many of them, there is a clear need for workplaces that prevent the development of disease – call it preventing disability. So at least we fully support the inter-pellant, which calls for more money for labour-oriented rehabilitation, and hopes that there will be a commitment in that area in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e881	I have no doubt that job-oriented rehabilitation and action will work if they are of good quality, based on the fact that they are geared to the needs and opportunities of the individual and that they start early enough. Several of the representatives who have been up here have talked about the need for more measures, but also about the need for good reporting on the impact of the measures we are taking. That is a requirement I support. As the Committee dealt with the issue of work, well-being and inclusion during the previous ageing period, the Committee pointed to the need for better reporting on impact and the quality objectives to be set for the follow-up of actions in general through Nav. We also pointed to the need for interaction with other institutions, for example. health and education, in this work. It has also been at the heart of this debate that it is necessary to get moving quickly and to work together where the user is given an overall offer. Because if you are sick, you need some health services, too. Faster return payments are, as many have said, shared between Nav and health businesses. I am aware that the field of work-oriented rehabilitation has now created some quality objectives, especially those relating to the follow-up of people with mild mental and muscle and skeletal disorders. It is interesting to look at the quality objectives for their own work and their professionalism, but also at the follow-up they plan for in relation to their own activities. There is a need for such a systematic approach in all this work, for example, if I am not in doubt that it is right to initiate measures, it is important that the measures we are taking have quality and that they are linked to the other things we are doing. That's as far as I know, about 20 pst. of those who are sick at 80 pst. of sick leave. In this group, most of them also go from health care to disability benefit. I believe that there is reason to concentrate the specialised follow-up through labour-oriented rehabilitation more on this group, because that is where we know there is a great risk of exclusion in the future, and also where the large numbers associated with sick leave are today. We have made a change in the budget, where the money for action through Nav is now collected in one item. We have done so that there will be opportunities for the ethos and the ministry through its agency management to follow up what is most needed. The size has set some targets for the follow-up of different groups, but – I've said it from the Storting pulpit before and I'd like to repeat it – those figures are not sacred numbers. What's important is that the department follows up those who need the most help and where you think the effect is good, and that you have early help for as much as possible. I also welcome the work that the Council of State and the Government are now going to do towards the revised budget in this area, so that we can now see that this task that we are talking about today, labour-oriented rehabilitation, but also the field of generalisation and follow-up of those who have complex needs, is being reinforced. This is because we're not going to experience what we've experienced in the last two years: that the budget has not been able to spend the money that the Stortinget has set aside to help people who are out of work, whether there is a disease or a lack of competence or other kinds of problems. There is no doubt that the agreements relating to labour-related rehabilitation concluded by Nav have created expectations both for users and for those seeking to offer these tasks. I'm pretty sure there's been an accident in this situation, because I'm assuming that the department has given its input to the budget, so it would have been possible to stop this earlier. But I could also imagine that the Council of State could say a little bit about how to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e900	The new IA agreement recently concluded does not contain so many new measures to reduce sick leave or to get more of the people who have problems in their working life back to work. That means it's challenging to meet the goal of reducing the sick leave by 20 pst. Rehabilitation is one of the tools to get people back to work faster. Therefore, this action should be prioritised and not downgraded. I have visited several institutions and others who have told me a little about the different measures they are working with. What I think is unlikely to be exciting about this group is that they're able to see that human beings are human beings and that man is more than just the working situation. In most cases, this person with complex needs — muscle and skeletal disorders and perhaps mental distress — and many of them have been away from work for a long time or have been sick for a long time. That one then can see that there is not necessarily the situation at the workplace or within the employer's range to be able to do something about the problems, I think I am interesting. The way in which more offers are corrected is to look at it more in a 24-hour perspective, where one sees that one needs to master privacy in order to master the workplace. I thought it was unlikely exciting that a person could get such a type of action. More to the debate that has ours and signal that I have received. For example, a local Nav leader says: clear and clear that in mid-February it was empty for funds. That means they got a signal to tell more people to hire people for action. So it was in the middle of February – a month and a half out in the new year. That's what I thought was challenging, because that signal might be unfortunate. In another state, they said to the administrator that they had an over-consumption, but a deliberate over-consumption. They reported in order to continue the same way because they thought the measures were so important. Where I think we're at the key, because if the measures are good, if a believer in them, it has to bet. I believe that new measures often take time before they can be used, because, as many have also said, there is a little uncertainty as to whether the impact is there. But when the measures are there and begin to work, and it is reported that Sorry, there is an empty budget; they have to stop, there is a very bad signal to send out. What happens then is that skills that are built up need to be built down, or that the Nav offices that previously led people to this type of action no longer do it because the money is not there. Then we lose the good offer, and those who were used to rent over to the right to work do nothing more. It's very unfortunate. Therefore, I must say that when the representative Steinar Gullvåg starts to ask questions, it may be in his place – and it is always advisable to ask questions about how things work – but the signal does not have to be seen as a question mark on the functioning of labour law rehabilitation. The same applies to the signal given by the Council of State in relation to the revised national budget. I think I have to be clear and clear that yes, we're bringing more money, because it's important. If the signal that there is more money is there, I also believe that the Nav offices will actually use the offer and thus continue the escalating process and get even more quickly back to work. There is very little help with conversations and follow-up plans for a health care professional, if the measures to actually help them back are not in place. The Christian People's Party's signal will be that the Government must bring more money into revision. If they do, they will at least receive the support of the Christian People's Party, for the whole follow-up to the IA agreements will require us to follow closely whether the work is present and good enough. I believe that in order to prevent these people from staying in a longer sick leave for a longer period outside of work and perhaps not coming back, labour law is one of the services that will ensure that the objectives of the IA agreements can be achieved more easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e913	The left is in line with others in this room a warm defender of good welfare arrangements and social security networks for those who fall outside or are affected by disease. I can confirm what has been said several times here, that it is reported from several counties that they have to cut off the offers of work-oriented rehabilitation. That's why I want to commend the interpellant who addresses this important topic. Norway is a good country to live in in most areas. We have a well-developed welfare state, for which the Left has historically been a driver. Annually, we spend large sums on health and care. It's positive, but we still find challenges in this area as well. Better rehabilitation is one of these areas. If primary health services were better able to carry out rehabilitation and purchase more treatment sites, we could prevent more ports in a long history of disease, which in some cases end up with disability, as we have heard several times here today. One sentence that I noticed in the Prime Minister's New Year speech, which also involved the interpellant, was that the Government will be investing in work, because we are living by each other's work. There's no doubt about it. The economy depends on many daily contributions, and those in work contribute to many good welfare offers. This is precisely why rehabilitation is so important, because rehabilitation increases the quality of life while at the same time getting people back to work after staying in health care, especially older people who still want to contribute. It's good for the economy, it's good for the community, and it's good for the individual. Then we face some challenges in the future that need to be dealt with wisely. We're going to have a population with an increasing number of caring elderly people, and we can experience possible shortages of labour. The positive thing is that more and more people are surviving serious injuries and diseases. It's great that we're still getting older, but it requires that we meet this effectively. In the view of the Left, a better rehabilitation key to this is increased efforts at rehabilitation and prevention by ensuring that chroniclers, drug users and people with disabilities can get to work. That's why the Left has prioritised 200 million. kr extra for rehabilitation in our alternative state budget for 2010. The left has been committed to strengthening primary health services in a number of areas, including: through increased capacity and better provision of health sisters and health stations. I would urge the Minister of Health and Welfare to include the Left's proposal to increase the appropriations for this in the context of the revision of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e925	The working party was criticized here for believing that faster back and early effort are not important. That's not what we mean, on the contrary, we believe that faster return and early response to the sick person is essential to prevent long-term absence. But we have to see if the measures we offer are actually of such quality that they work. That is why we are committed – including in this debate – to stress that we need better impact measurement, and we need to ensure that quality is present in the actions we offer. It is about respect for the recipient of the measure, and it is about respect for taxpayers' money. Then there is someone in the debate today who has used the opportunity to criticise the recently concluded IA agreement, as well as the Government and the Council of State, for having participated too little in the debate. Then I'll also use the opportunity here to answer that. Before Christmas, the Government, and especially the Prime Minister, was criticized in this Chamber for thinking too much. And now we're being criticized for thinking too little. It's with respect to notifying customs. It was the Prime Minister and the Government that started the broad and popular debate we've had on sick leave ever since the government budget was presented. We invited a wide-ranging debate that everyone was going to take part in. And everyone has participated. We have had tremendous discussions about how to reduce sick leave, around the workplace and around the canteen tables. We have been active and went out to businesses, the Prime Minister has been involved in the debate almost daily, and the Council of State sitting here today has been in every channel — everywhere. We've been busy getting involved in this debate, and we've got that. It has laid the groundwork for the Government to sit down with the social partners and now sign a new and more powerful IA agreement, which we believe could reduce sick leave in the future. Then it is said that there is nothing new in the agreement. That's not right either. Much of the IA agreement is new, but first of all, we're doing more of what we know is working. There is no hokus pokus to bring down sick leave. The fact that, as a general rule, we believe it is right to focus on the presence of the workplace even if you are ill, it is new, the role of doctors is sharpened, it is new, and the parties agree to look at a model of increased employer funding, which is also new. I want to challenge the opposition back – on another occasion – about what the opposition is missing. I understand that in this debate we have had, where the government and government parties have been very active countries and beaches around how to reduce sick leave, the opposition has been taken. I have not heard the opposition make any proposals for new measures in an IA agreement. On the contrary, the only thing I have come to realize that the opposition has called for is more vicious, less carrots, norm health messages – as in the Swedish model – that are about pushing sick people back to work, and that the representatives of the Right have been dissatisfied with the fact that the social partners together with the Government are now spending better time finding a good model for increased employer funding, so that we can get a carrot scheme for companies that actually prevent better. That's all I've heard that the opposition is missing. They have not proposed what a new and more powerful IA agreement should contain. It is the government parties, together with the social partners, that have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e936	Just a brief comment on the representative Trettebergstien: I assume that Trettebergstien can use the Internet. If she goes to www.hoyre.no, she will, among other things, find 37 proposals presented by the Right six months ago. Some of them have been included in the IA agreement, others have not been used at all. Now I just want to say that it's very nice for the Prime Minister to start a debate, and he'll be honored for that, but we don't have prime ministers and elected politicians to start debates and then disappear again. We also have elected politicians to show some leadership. The problem with the debate is that the Prime Minister was there, at the LO Conference, and started the debate. Then he stayed away. He was not present in the debate for several months. And then you've answered the challenge of making an IA contract that's toothless – it's little new – and going around consulting. I think it is quite paradoxical that after winning a choice of programmes that have been adopted, and after adopting a government statement for the next period, you should ask for advice. If it were to be a believer, you would have to go out and ask for advice before adopting your programs. But enough about it. I have a specific question for the Council of State, given that we are receiving feedback from several states that there is now a sudden stoppage. This is quite simple: in 2009, the budget was own in addition to the funds transferred. This means that although this item has increased somewhat, there is a real decrease in the funds available. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State was aware of this. If this is the case that the Council of State was not aware of it, does that mean that someone has failed to inform the Council of State about the situation and that the Council of State has not had an overview of its field? If this is how the Council of State was aware of it, it must mean that the Council of State, knowingly and willfully, has been heading towards the crisis summit that we are seeing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e953	There's an important theme the interpellant is addressing today, so thank you to the interpellant for that! I should not go to such depths when it comes to talking about the importance of labour law rehabilitation. It's very important. My great concern is the long-termity and carelessness of those who provide these services. Several people have reported that they have received a stop order when they provide more of the services. It's worrying. In the budget for the last year, a statement was made to the effect that a person should be more conscientious in relation to contracts. It's positive. So thank you to the Government for that. But it helps very little when a rehabilitation center received a letter on February 25th, where it will be full stop from March 1st. There are not many days. Then I wonder: does the Council have any answer as to what to do from March and perhaps until the revised budget? It's terrible to think that users get hurt, and they don't at least add them. They actually have a right to cancellation. And it's these centers that have to take this. They must keep them in work and pay them these three months. Maybe it's going to be a little bit minus, maybe it's going to be some bankruptcy. It worries me a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e962	I would like to thank everyone for the debate so far. I believe that we all have a goal of reducing sick leave, slowing down the exclusion from work and getting better at including vulnerable groups in the workplace. There's sometimes a feeling that there's a political disagreement about this, that some people want this more than others. I hope we can resolve that. But politics is actually not just wanting, but also making sure that something is done. Many of those who have listened to the Government’s admiration of the Norwegian model of spending the large amount of money on the major tasks and the need to invest in Community solutions rather than taxation have reason to be disappointed. Those who are waiting to enter labour-oriented rehabilitation are not met by heat and care, but by a cold shoulder. Which impression you're left with when you feel that promises are broken, and that bets don't come, when doors are closed and opportunities are destroyed, we can actually just imagine, we're at the privileged end of the scale. The debate has been interesting and fine, and I welcome its support. In this regard, I would like to refer to Gullvåg from the Workers' Party, who said that early work is important for people to come back to work, and that many people with mental disorders will be better off getting back to work. That's exactly why work-oriented rehabilitation is so great – it's usually early in the illness period, and it's in the job situation. Today's debate has confirmed that we have an overall commitment to these challenges. But I want to point out that there are actually three parties in this room that sit with majority and government power. Therefore it was both with joy and unrest that I heard Karin Andersen expressing hopes for revision from this pulpit. When we from the Right have raised proposals in this area, they have almost systematically been voted down. We can live with that, maybe that's the situation. But those who are waiting for action now, and those who meet the closed doors, those who are in great danger of falling out of work, cannot wait. They actually deserve that the Council of State now makes sure to put action behind the words. The first occasion for the Council of State to do so is in the context of the revised national budget. That chance she should not let go, especially when she has just said from this pulpit that she sees clearly that this is an important need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e975	I will also be allowed to end by thanking you for the debate. I am glad that there is such a broad political consensus that precisely this kind of action is very important to get people back to work, provided that, as many people have been involved, they work according to their purpose. I can then, as I also underlined in my post, point out that we have an evaluation in progress just to see if the Faster Back works according to its purpose. I also agree with what has been said, that it is typical that it is the early effort that is absolutely essential. It shows all the studies, and that's precisely why early efforts are the whole pillar of the new IA agreement. I'm not going to spend so much of the time I have to talk about the IA agreement, but I want to stress that, like the social partners, I have faith that the new IA agreement actually has important elements in it to be able to influence sick leave, and that what you do, like others, is that you take the things that you know work. I want to say that sick leave is such a big challenge for us all and for society, that I believe that there are one or two instruments that you could quickly grasp, that's not right. What we've done is that we've essentially followed all the recommendations of the expert committee that was set up, which are the ones that presumptuously do this best. Then we have said that with regard to the motivation of the employer to do something about long-term absence, i.e. the funding mechanism, we will jointly assess this and conclude at the end of the year. It is, as I said at the outset, unfortunate, of course, that the way in which this has been budgeted has given an unnecessary level of expectations both to users and, not least – as the representative has mentioned – to these service providers. I have the impression – I’ve drilled a little bit in it – that it’s a little different, because many have other services they offer. It is not necessarily such that they must close their business, they have also turned the business into another type of activity. So I would like to stress that that doesn't mean we're paying for something we don't get. I have the impression that someone had such an understanding. This is a framework agreement to be drawn up. In conclusion, I just want to say that, as the Stortinget was aware, and was made aware of by my predecessor, it was, therefore, by mistake a sub-budget of 320 million. to these measures for 2010. That is the main explanation of the question that was asked me directly from the Red Isaacs. I would like to stress that we have said that we will come back to this in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e992	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1006	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes for the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes for the Left. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1015	I intend to start my post by telling you that I only have two memories from when I went to kindergarten myself. One memory is from when I and some other guys brought us the girls behind the kindergarten and showed up – I have a little trouble finding the parliamentary expression for it, but I'm sure you'll see what I want to achieve. The second memory is that I was blamed by a kindergarten worker on my skin for something I had not done. The two examples may be a small tip on how it can be done if there are too few employees at work to have an overview of what the kids are doing, but also what can happen if you do not have sufficient pedagogical skills. These memories have got stuck in my consciousness, but fortunately have not given lasting but. I hope that this has not led to lasting but with the girls who were exposed to my exposure. In recent times, there has been a great deal of attention on sick leave, young people infirm, high school dropouts, youth psychiatry and many access to child protection. Now it's time, in my view, to see these challenges in a larger context. As Finn Skjörderud writes in his book «Uro»: ‘There is no daring thought to see correlations between a modern disease panorama and the border problems of the modern family.’ It's about what we put in the bags of our children. It is in this light that I will raise the importance of kindergarten, and in this light we should see the work of quality in kindergartens. Pre-school teachers and other staff are the main input to the quality of the offer. Therefore, it is disappointing that Norway is the only of 25 OECD countries surveyed that have neither 50 pst. with pedagogical competence or 80 pst. with children’s professional competence. The majority of the Committee therefore emphasises that the pedagogical code is a minimum provision and not an objective to reach. It is important to increase recruitment, to increase the number of students, to bring in new occupational groups, to bring in more men and more with migrant backgrounds. It is also important, I believe, to consider raising the standard of education. More staff with more expertise in kindergartens will lead to greater security, more tranquillity, awareness of all children, speedy action, and the ability of directors to discharge their responsibilities as managers. It is an important goal for children to master Norwegian language before they begin school. An overall committee believes that the benefit of kindergarten participation is particularly high for children who need additional language stimulation in addition to what they get at home. The Committee thus recognises the importance of kindergarten. A single committee underlines that learning is to be done through play and everyday activities and that learning and care are to be seen in the context. So it's not going to be more school in kindergarten, it's going to be more learning through games. There have been serious concerns recently about language monitoring in kindergartens. It has been claimed by several professionals that this is a large social project that has no idea of the consequences. And I have to say that I have myself very much supported whether it is right to introduce this when so many professionals have expressed themselves critically. That's why you've had to start digging a little bit about what this is actually about. It turns out there's nothing new to introduce here. Over 90 pst. by Norwegian municipalities, they report that they are already carrying out a form of child observation, a language survey. The majority of the Committee and the Government, however, want to ensure this work by providing a good tool, well-trained staff, and giving parents the opportunity to give their consent. So we introduce freedom of choice for parents. There is no one, nor the opposition, asking questions about the screening of languages in health centres, which is a foreign environment for children. Many parents say that when the children get to the health center, they almost become silent as oysters. This is not a problem, but having a language mapping and an observation of children while playing during normal activity in kindergarten, should as a result be a big problem. I'm not going to vote for that. There, I think, some people, both professionals and opposition, have fallen for the temptation to actually want to misunderstand what this is all about. We have also received a letter from the Swedish Federation of Hearing Officers, which has been among those who have wanted this, just to catch up with children with impaired hearing. Many children with hearing impairments can go through the whole kindergarten cycle without being caught up in hearing impaired – because you can learn the words, but it is not certain that you understand the meaning of them. Therefore, we would stress that this should be an integral part of the day-to-day life of kindergarten and that it should not affect the play of children or the time spent by staff. The Committee is united in the desire for a better, closer and more coordinated follow-up of children with needs, when it is identified. Kindergartens need to be better informed, action needs to be taken quickly and sufficiently, and they need to be coordinated. It is not good that the cooperation varies a lot from municipality to municipality. Investment in this area can therefore be a good investment in the future of the welfare state and not least in the lives of individuals. The Committee therefore asks the Government to consider how to ensure that needs notified by kindergartens are followed up. Back to the big picture and to Finn Skårderud. He writes in his book that we are now living in a high-speed society where traditions have a short life span. And a changing society also changes the family and a changing family also changes the individual. In the modern family, there is a strong emphasis on inner inheritance. Parents shall provide their children with psychological capital to enable their children to be self-realised and self-controlled. It's not easy – not everyone can do it, and not everyone is aware of this. Many children experience unrest, noise, disturbance and a hesitant pace, and for some children the kindergarten is perhaps the one safe haven in their lives. I think it is a perspective that will become more important and important in the planning and development of the future kindergartens. In addition to continuing the work of constantly improving kindergartens, we should also keep looking at how we can avoid people being excluded from kindergarten. It is an important objective that there should be no financial obstacles to the participation of children in kindergarten. We have many good arrangements for this today, and it should still be worked on. I would like to quote from the Distribution Committee's report, where they say: ‘The payment in Norwegian kindergartens is likely to contribute to the exclusion of some from the nursery provision for economic reasons. Children of parents with low income and education demand kindergarten to a lesser extent than others, and these are the children who are likely to have the greatest benefit from kindergarten.» Another report says that: ‘there are few clear conclusions to draw on the impact of direct transfers of funds, such as increased child welfare, for the development of children’. However, it is good coverage that pre-school measures aimed at disadvantaged children have significant positive effects in the short and long term. The measures lead to better performance of children at school, as well as the completion of higher education, higher education and the success of the labour market. This is why the majority asks the Government to consider how to ensure that children from low-income families can have real opportunities for kindergarten, and the current instruments are sufficient to meet the need, and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with an assessment on these issues. In my work with the child care quality report, I have become a dedicated children's garden trailer. I've seen that this is about a crucial phase in the lives of the children. As a father himself and as a politician, I am very concerned that we put the best possible ballast in the sack of children in the first years of life. That's why I want to end by paying tribute to the employees in kindergarten for the amazing job they're doing – they're perhaps the most important profession we have in Norway for the welfare state's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1060	I can't, like the case rapporteur, start by telling you about my childhood upbringing, because I haven't gone to kindergarten, but I have two children – one who's had a day's mother, and one who's gone to an international nursery – so little experience with kindergarten, I still have. With regard to the issue we are dealing with today on quality in kindergarten, we can at least use this as an example to say that Norway has good kindergartens. The goal of full babysitting is now almost reached, and it is time that we also look at quality, and I would say a little about that. In concrete terms, it is not quite the big thing that comes out of the message, but at least you are on the right track. Good quality depends on whether there are municipal kindergartens or whether there are private kindergartens, whether they are small or large, or new kindergartens. In any case, it is important that the kindergartens we have in place provide a good quality offer to the children who are going to go there. After all, the children stay there all day – there are many hours. That's why it's important that the quality of these hours is good. In the past, it was such that the parents were happy that they had a kindergarten. Now they're usually going to have a place, but that's why the quality of the offer they get is going to be more important. I think the parents are going to have a completely different focus on quality in kindergarten than before. I would like to say, like the rapporteur, that there is something that is underlined as important in this message, and in the children's everyday life it is, apart from the parents, the staff in the kindergartens. When we leave our children to the staff in kindergartens, they're often only one year old, so it's a big task the staff gets. I also want to give praise to those who work in kindergartens. In the matter, the government says they should have a pedagogical norm. That is what the Progress Party believes is the wrong way to go. There is no point in confirming or attaching numbers of pedagogues to a kindergarten. The important thing is that the children are seen, and that they get the attention and care they need the hours they spend in kindergarten. The Progress Party wants a diversity in kindergartens, and we want a breadth in kindergartens. We also want a width in terms of staff. It must be amazing to be able to have a kindergarten where you can have dance educators, you can have nutrition educators, you can have sports educators – not just preschool teachers. The pre-school teacher must, as I said, have the overall responsibility, but it must be possible to open up to other pedagogues in kindergartens as well. So I would say that the Progress Party is very concerned, even though the case rapporteur said something quite different, that the kindergartens have become part of the educational process. They're talking about socializing. Learning through play, the rapporteur said several times. It sounded great, but I do not believe in what the rapporteur said in relation to what is stated in the communication. The Progress Party is concerned that kindergartens are now becoming part of the whole educational cycle. We believe that is the wrong way to go. Of course, there should be a place where one should learn, but one should learn through play, and that's the game that should be the main focus in kindergarten. It shall not be part of a course of education. Then the cooperation between home and kindergartens is important. If parents have happy children at home and the parents themselves are satisfied with the kindergarten they have, it is important that they have good cooperation with kindergarten. To start with having so many parental conversations and so many screenings must be up to each and every nursery – there must be an interaction between the parents and the kindergartens they have their children in. I would rather point out the importance of having good cooperation between the PP service, healthcare, schools and kindergartens, and that a person gets it organised, so that the child gets a follow-up. The obligation of professional secrecy in many professions affects the children, so that they do not receive the offer they should have. We have received many e-mails. There has never been a matter that we have received as many e-mails about as in this case regarding compulsory language testing. There is talk of mandatory language testing. The opposition has not misunderstood what it says. I believe that the only people who agree with the Government and the majority in this Chamber are the Hearing Association. I fully understand that the Hearing Association is concerned. However, starting with mandatory testing of three-year-olds in terms of language is not the right thing. Why should we reinvent the powder, or why should we not take lessons in this matter as well – we are so good at taking lessons from other things – and look at both Sweden and Denmark, who have tried this for years and saw that it does not work, that this is the wrong use of resources. Instead, one should use the resources of the children who really need it, on those whom they see and observe in their usual work need extra follow-up, and provide them with extra follow-up instead of all being subject to mandatory testing. Therefore, at least the Progress Party strongly opposes the fact that we are going to have a mandatory language test on these children. Strengthening the knowledge of children who don't go to kindergarten is why this government should care. Those who choose otherwise, the parents who choose the day mother, the ones who choose to be at home, the ones who choose to take out cash support, the ones who choose not to have their children in kindergarten, have made a choice in line with the parents who have made a choice to send their children to kindergarten. Starting to map them means that we get associations to countries completely different from Norway. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party, together with other parties, has promoted in the matter. I would also like to signal that we are going to support the proposal from the Right that is on the table today. It's important that we now get a continuous admission to the nursery, so that everyone who needs a nursery place gets the place they're going to have. It is also important that we get a web portal, and I hope that the government can look further on, so that these parents can go in and get knowledge of their kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1092	The representative Solvency Horne then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1095	It is an old term that says that the person who stands the cradle controls the country. It's probably in many ways what this issue of quality in kindergartens is all about. The right is concerned with focusing on the quality of kindergartens, so that kindergartens become the place where our children, who are our future, are given an optimal development offer. The right considers that full child care coverage is an important measure, but it must not be at the expense of quality. It seems like it's done on some occasions lately. In the right we also believe that private kindergartens, which amount to approx. 50 pst. the offer must be treated on a level playing field with the local authorities in order to ensure the capacity and diversity of the offer. The allocation of grants as a framework grant to municipalities for its distribution can provide a weak offer in some municipalities. Therefore, the Right continues to believe that the municipal price is a system that best ensures the offer. It has previously been mentioned, by the representative Horne, that the Progress Party and the Right propose the development of a web portal providing parents with information on the content and quality of the offer in the individual kindergartens. The proposal is well received by those who wear the shoe in the case, parents, employees in kindergartens and several municipalities. The Federation of Education has also supported the proposal. We are therefore somewhat surprised that it seems that the government parties will oppose this proposal. The availability of information on activities, diets, annual plans, physical frameworks and, in particular, opening hours is important for parents, in order to obtain the appropriate offer for individual family priorities. It could also lead to a more custom-made offer, which more closely reflects the variable working life we have elsewhere in society and the individual priorities of each family. I have to say that I have a lot of experience both as an employer and employee and with small children, and I know what stress it can be, for example, to adapt the collection of children in the nursery, where standardisation of opening hours leads to the kindergarten being almost thrown out of the kindergarten at 9:30 p.m. If there are queues or other obstacles to getting picked up, it is not easy to be children or parents. That's why we think it's very important to be able to have such information available to each of them. Finally, I would like to address the Right-wing proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1112	The representative Lars Bjarne Tvete has taken up the proposal he referred to, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1115	I thought it was a good feeling to work with the Storing message about quality in kindergarten. With the background that one has achieved what was the goal of the previous period, namely full kindergarten coverage, a now has a kindergarten with even over-quality, and, as it was called by several, with a lot of good staff. It's been a hell of a job. Nevertheless, this should not be a sleeppute. It's certainly something from the background of this big message that we want to continue. The work now is to ensure that kindergarten becomes more and more part of the educational cycle, thus establishing that kindergarten is a pedagogical institution. Here, our vision differs from, for example. His party of progress. But the nursery should not lose its own, it should not become a miniscule. The game should still be the learning promotion. The big message clearly clarifies it. This with the unique educational cycle is not fully distributed on the right-hand side. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have expressed scepticism that kindergartens are under the Ministry of Knowledge and warn against making kindergarten part of the educational cycle of the children. There is a skepticism that SV does not share. We want to tie very close lines there. Like the case spokesman and others, I have recorded some noise around the point of language mapping. I have a feeling that this is something overdramatized. There is an offer, not forced, and it is a mapping, not a testing. So it's not a new national sample. And as it was said earlier, everything is now being mapped out to your children's competences. Now the goal is to get a systematization of this and a more uniform method. Of course, the four-year health checks should continue. I am not of those who swallow raw everything quoted from Finland and to whom it is referred from the Finnish school, as some do, for example. for the results of the PISA investigation. However, there is one thing that is difficult to refute, and that is that Finland and Norway have completely different curves when it comes to special education in the school. In Finland, they start high and end low. So they have many hours in the first classes and very little when they get into the youth class. In Norway, it's the other way around. We start very carefully with special education, and then it increases gradually. It's actually telling itself what the goal should be. Finland has very much invested in early interventions, and it has drilled fruits. The mapping of language skills in kindergartens can be a hub for introducing early help measures in language development, and the focus is on early help being the best. In line with the view that we should talk about a holistic view of knowledge, it is natural that the school should have access to the survey results, so that one can also follow up here with custom teaching arrangements, that the children do not start again when they start school. I'm pretty sure you'll see the results when they get to the high school. But one should not ignore the challenges: one must develop uniform and good methods. It is important to ensure that monitoring is carried out by pedagogical personnel, who in turn set requirements for additions. And then it's fear of bureaucracy. One should be able to keep track of the children, not to perform mapping. Here, it is important that the methods used are directly related to the relationship with the children. Finally, it is important to clarify the main points of the Storing Message work: ensure the equivalent and high quality of all kindergartens strengthen the kindergarten that all children's learning areas are to be actively involved in an inclusive community
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1140	The center party is concerned that we should preserve the nursery's peculiarity, and that there is a game, care and security that should be at the center. It's important that we see the whole kid, and that activity and learning happen on the kid's premises. This property is highlighted by many, and stands in contrast to the focus on testing and ranking that we can see characters for other places. That's why I'm surprised that it's said that we're now moving away from the kindergarten's peculiarity, and towards a pediatric ranking culture. This helps to spread a misconception of the quality of the nursery. We do not propose to introduce compulsory language testing of all children in kindergarten. What we are proposing is to make it compulsory to provide a survey of the child's language at the age of three in kindergarten, of course implicitly that parents have given their consent. That means that all kids should have equal opportunities to get the help they need. A mapping will be performed by observing the kid in everyday activity and game; there will not be a test where one ranks the kids. In order to get a good picture of young people’s language and understanding, it is important that this is done in a natural situation that young people are familiar with. A lot of municipalities have some sort of mapping today. I think that a proper review of how this mapping is going to work will increase the quality and help prevent the test culture that we don't want. 92 pst. by the municipalities, the language of the young is surveyed in their kindergartens. We want to ensure that the mapping tools used have the necessary quality through professional assessment and guidance material. The competence and professional beauty of the pedagogue are decisive for the intelligent use of the tools and in line with the legislation. We can't have a situation where staff without adequate competence use simple and quick tools to categorised the kids. We therefore also consider that the staff should be required to have their competence and that the municipalities should help kindergartens who lack adequate skills. An equivalent high-quality childcare provision has led to good and reliable cooperation between kindergarten and home. The younger the young, the more important it is for both young people and parents that staff have time for daily contact and dialogue about the well-being and experience of their children. Many parents want more involvement in kindergarten. Parents have the right to participate, and the rental in the nursery is responsible for inviting parents to participate actively in the planning and assessment of the contents of the nursery. A good childcare facility must be ensured regardless of whether a person is in a private or public nursery, whether it is large or small kindergartens, old or new. Legislation on the equivalent treatment of approved kindergartens will help prevent differences in quality between municipal and non-municipal kindergartens from developing. With this big message, the Government indicates the ambition to ensure a high-quality childcare facility for all. The large majority of young people aged one to five years spend a lot of time in kindergarten. So kindergarten has an important role to play in society and a great deal of co-responsibility for young people getting a safe and healthy upbringing and a basis for a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1159	After several years of focusing on building new kindergartens, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is now finally putting the spotlight on the quality and content of kindergarten. It's about taking the kids' everyday lives seriously. Preschool teachers and other qualified staff are essential for the quality of childcare services. During the period 2006-2008, the number of exemptions from the training requirement increased by a total of 125 pst. It illustrates the need for a power cap to recruit and retain competent staff. The message presents several recruitment measures, and they are supported by the Christian People's Party. However, we believe that efforts in this field need to be stepped up beyond what the Government puts in place, in order to recruit enough pre-school teachers as well as to ensure good continuing training for staff. It's the parents who choose care solutions for their own kids. Parents must be able to choose for themselves whether the one or two-year-old has the best time to be home with your father or mother, to be cared for by your grandparents or neighbors, or to go to kindergarten. That choice is not to be taken by politicians. Real freedom of choice therefore means that there must be an offer of cash support, which is an important welfare mechanism that provides flexibility. Real choice also requires full childcare coverage and a good quality offer. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a wide range of childcare facilities in terms of ownership, pedagogical and valuable profile as well as the possibility of shorter periods of residence. Private kindergartens contribute to freedom of choice and provide greater dynamism and diversity in the kindergarten sector. It stimulates development, stimulates quality. The Government further aims to achieve an equivalent treatment of municipal and non-municipal kindergartens through an escalation plan of up to five years. The Christian People's Party believes that equivalent treatment must be completed before the childcare provision is introduced into the local authorities' framework. It is important to ensure the quality of private kindergartens. The Christian People’s Party is also concerned that diversity is weakened by the fact that private kindergartens established after 2011 are not entitled to grants. In practice, this means that freedom of establishment disappears. Despite the massive resistance of the trade unions, the Education Association and others, the Government is adding to the message the language mapping of three-year-olds in all kindergartens. Although it is also happening today, there is no doubt that such a requirement represents a new policy and a signal of a new thinking in the kindergarten sector. It is a paradox when government parties, on the one hand, introduce a survey of a part of the child’s development and part of the kindergarten’s activities, and, on the other hand, claim that there is no significance to the future focus of the kindergarten’s management. The identification of some aspects of a business will always govern the content and focus of management. The Christian People's Party believes it is more important for the quality of kindergartens that preschool teachers can be with the kids than that they spend time writing reports about them. Experience from Denmark, which has introduced language monitoring, shows that there is an unnecessary amount of time spent on monitoring young people who do not need follow-up at all, rather than following up the young people who need it. We see clear signals in the message of a more performance-driven kindergarten. It is surprising that SV seems to be the main driver of such a development, and drives kindergarten towards more focus on school, more written assessment, monitoring and testing. We see clear signals about a kindergarten that takes steps towards an enterprise more on adults' premises than on the kids' premises. The Christian People's Party therefore promotes a proposal in which we ask the Government not to impose requirements on all kindergartens to offer language mapping at the age of three. The Christian People's Party is also, in part for the same reason, critical to transfer the written assessment of all children from kindergarten to school, from a volunteer to a mandatory pedagogical offer. The dimensions of the kindergarten are about values that cannot be measured without further delay. Research shows that more screening helps to narrow the contents of the kindergarten. There are many areas of children’s life and learning that cannot be redefined for results on a screening test. This applies, inter alia, to: kindergarten such as the arena for free play, motor training, natural and cultural experiences and reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1188	I join the rapporteur's tribute to the kindergarten, and I see that there is a lot of fine in the government's message about what is the main challenge, both competence and quality. That's where we very much agree. But we're probably a little bit more sceptical that it doesn't contain a lot of concrete measures, nor any big commitments. The left has been involved in the budgets of the last few years, mainly in terms of competence. There's a big difference between it being that it's important to bet on getting skills and knowledge into kindergarten, making sure we get good professionals there -- there's a big step between it and saying that kindergarten should be part of our schooling. The last thing is the Left disagree with, and we probably support the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party in the matter in that particular area. But we are very much in order for the kindergarten to be well professionally thought out, with good professionals who can see children, and who can see children early. The exact monitoring and monitoring of all children is also different in the context of kindergarten, and for example to have. a 4-year control of language development, which is currently carried out in many health centres, in order to assess whether children who do not have kindergarten are actually in need of a kindergarten. That is why we believe that one should focus on competence, one should focus on the knowledge of kindergarten and the knowledge of kindergarten, but it should be primarily that kindergarten should be an arena where children should develop on a play base, and where it should be allowed to hang out a little bit, which is much more difficult in a school system. We are going to support proposal No. One, of course. When the Children's Hazellift was implemented, Hill-Marta Solberg said that the Left's reference to the fact that a maximum price will lead to an income revaluation that makes the poorest probably going to pay the same thing as before, while the richest get a lower kindergarten price, only duty. But now we see the consequences of that, that in a city like Oslo, there have been many, many million dollars spent on getting the richest children's courts cheaper, while in the municipality you have had to struggle to keep the lowest prices down to the same level you had before. If the Oslo politicians had been allowed to dispose of these funds by sea and said that they would only be used to bring down the nursery prices, I think they would rather have prioritised that they had received less than NOK 200,000 or NOK 250 000 in income, instead of prioritising that the richest would have a cheaper kindergarten. Otherwise, I support everything that is written about research. It's very important to get more research into kindergartens and what a nursery place means, and what works, and what doesn't work. What is said about unskilled skills is important, namely to build up the skills of the unskilled in kindergarten. It's important to have a plan for, and it's important to use them. When we look at how few warnings come from kindergarten to child protection, I think it has a little to do with the focus in kindergarten, where you very often perceive the parents as the customer and not the child. I think it's the wrong focus in a lot of kindergartens when you see it so that it's the parents who are the customer, which makes you get a loyalty band that gets wrong. But it's also about that we don't have enough professionals who feel safe about exactly the decisions that are as difficult as these are. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We do not support proposal No. 3 but the proposal presented in the Chamber today, proposal No. Four, we're going to vote in favour. Then I think I've clarified our vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1207	This debate marks a new stage in the large kindergarten setting. Now we've had a job that's gone land and beach around to make sure we can offer a kindergarten for all children. We have introduced the right to babysitting – it happened from 2009. We have managed to implement the kindergarten reform without lowering the requirements for quality, and we are going through the violent escalation with about. one third of pre-school teachers still in kindergarten. But now we're at the place where we're going to raise our eyes and see what enormous opportunities we now have to offer all children a place in kindergarten, to bet on quality and to make sure that it's a good arena that we know can stimulate the development of all children, which may be the most important tool we can have to combat differences between children and give everyone equal opportunities. This is a bet that I'm very proud of, I'm proud of the cooperation that has been. But I think it's paradoxical that in many contexts where we've discussed the growth of young children, it seems to be less status and attention related to it, although everyone, when they think about it, knows that what we invest at least, is the most important thing we can do. That is why I am very pleased that we can now discuss the quality and content of the nursery and how we are going to ensure that we are able to get as good an offer as possible for everyone. What we know then is that we're going to need more pre-school teachers to create a good quality kindergarten and to meet the educational norm we already have. We have too many dispensations, although we have managed to keep approx. one third of pre-school pre-school employees. There's too much variation between kindergartens, and we need to ensure an equivalent quality. We know that we need a better interaction between the different municipal services for children — kindergarten, school, PP service, child protection and healthcare. All of these challenges are what we now address. I am pleased that the majority of the Stortinget supports the idea that we should have an ambitious kindergarten policy with a clear commitment to the pedagogical offer of kindergarten, and that that means that we must have clear demands for pedagogical competence in kindergartens. It's a clear field of interest in the message, and that's the most important thing we have to work for in the future; to make sure we have good quality. We must ensure that the standard of education we have today is complied with, and – as the majority say – we must raise the level of ambition when we see that we have an opportunity to move further in this respect. I am also concerned about all the assistants who work in kindergartens. There is a great deal of expertise among child care assistants, and there is the opportunity to increase that competence. I know that many of the assistants want to take a professional letter and encourage the municipalities to offer them the opportunity to develop in their job, whether they want to take a professional letter or perhaps some of them also want to go further and take pre-school teacher training. In a year's time, we'll be at a new milestone in the kindergarten debate. This is when the municipalities are to assume responsibility and the earmarked funds are to be included in the framework of the municipalities. It's going to face us with major challenges in terms of how we're going to ensure that we follow up on the quality and content of the nursery, and I'm glad that the Storting is concerned about how we're going to be able to ensure it well. So some comments on what has been most debated in connection with this message, and that's the question of monitoring children's language development. Since I'm a new state councillor, I have reserved the right to look with new eyes at some of the proposals that lie here, to see if I think the reason was good. I can only understand that there is a good reason to introduce language screening in kindergarten – not in the form of tests or tests, but as a system for better observation of children’s development. I was in a kindergarten where they said they had this as a tool for observation, and that they got a more trained look to follow the children's development. That's what's meant. When we also know that very many municipalities have already introduced it, we need national guidance and guidelines on how to do this, because we also have many cases of tests that should not be carried out in kindergartens. When we know that most kindergartens already have a system to follow up on this, it also implies that we have a duty to ensure that there is good quality in that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1222	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1225	From SV in the last period, and during this period, there has been a very high focus on the problem of poverty in Norway. There has not been so much discussion in this matter here, but one thing that comes up in terms of poverty problems and ability to pay for those who earn the least is payment in kindergartens. Telemarks research has carried out a study, which has also been reproduced by PBL, the Landsförening of Private Barnehager, which clearly shows that the maximum price is completely wrong, even in relation to sibling moderation. Those who have to pay at least have actually received an increase in the nursery price compared to those who pay the maximum price, who have suffered a fall. My question to the Council of State is, has she gone into these numbers and looked at this? What will the Council of State do to balance this difference, so that those who have problems with payment get a lower payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1230	I totally disagree that it would not be a goal to reduce the price in kindergartens. I think an incredible number of people have forgotten how extremely expensive a nursery place was – too poor and too rich – a few years ago. The price has been reduced for most people. The size was, when we made the kindergarten reform, concerned that municipalities would propose income upgrading – sibling rating – and offer more reasonable nursery places to those who had poor advice. And then we know that there are quite a number of different municipal ways to implement it. The problem with what's the majority's proposal here today is that if you introduce it, with the knowledge we have today, some people might be at risk of getting a more expensive kindergarten. What we need is a good enough overview of what this looks like in each municipality. We're going to do that through the nursery school, and then we're going to get back to how we're going to work on graduated parental pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1237	Some of the many responses that have been made to language mapping in kindergarten, I think, must be understood in the light of the underlying trends that have occurred, i.e. part of the debate on learning – the learning aspect – in kindergarten. We want the best for small children, so we want to know a lot about them. We want to map and know something about language development, we might also want to know something about knowledge development in terms of numbers and letters – there's something about personal development that it's easy to understand that you're going to follow. So hopefully this child's going to have to bring a piece of paper back to school. Then I'm like, "Do you think there's no privacy in this?" I wonder if not even small children actually need to be able to start with blank papers when they go into school, that it's mapping children, and that's how individuals, skills and knowledge in all areas, finally when a point where privacy has to weigh heavier? I should like to hear the council reflect a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1244	I understand – and I believe it is healthy – that there is a discussion about monitoring children’s language development in kindergartens. I believe it is absolutely essential to have a critical look at how this is being done and not to think ‘school’ when assessing kindergarten. Kindergarten has a very important value in the pedagogy that we traditionally have in the Norwegian and Nordic kindergarten tradition. But I believe that we have found the balance that makes you get an offer – it’s not mandatory, it’s an offer – about a tool that allows you to find out if children have problems with language development at an early stage. We've seen too many times that you say about an 18, 19 or 20-year-old, that he could be seen in kindergarten. We can't have it like that. If you see a three-year-old struggling, a three-year-old needs help. I have a great deal of understanding that there's a discussion around this, not least because we have so many examples from the Right-steered Municipalities, who have set their throats on the strangest tests of young children in the kindergarten without any of the critical objections that Thommessen brings here. So I understand the restraint that has been in the kindergarten sector when it comes to this. What I don't understand is what the Right believes about language mapping.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1249	There are many questions you might have wanted to ask the Council of State about language mapping, not least related to the Council of State's last comment that you're constantly hearing away: yes, but this was already seen in kindergarten; there is a need for special follow-up. That is exactly what was also said at the hearing by the trade unions: we can actually identify this without mapping tools and directives on screening. My first question is precisely to the attention of the Council of State that this is just an observation. But how do you combine an offer of observation with volunteering, since this should be just an offer? The second question relates to what was said at the hearing, that the problem of testing and monitoring is that one forgets what is the real purpose, that ‘tests in practice take over as a steering tool’ — quote from Solvency Østerrem, the University of Westfold. I want the Council of State to clarify this: what is it that the professional community has misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1258	There are different perceptions of this in the scientific community, and there are different kinds of mapping and testing that you can have different opinions about. But what we have agreed on in the quality notification in kindergarten is national monitoring guidelines, which are designed to ensure quality, which are based on observation, which are not intended to change the starting point of kindergarten where play is central to learning, and which are based on the characteristics of preschool and kindergarten. This way of approximating the discussion on monitoring, as many people do, therefore I do not think it is consistent with what is actually proposed in the message. Today, we have language mapping at the health centre. Children may be up to five years before they arrive at the health centre, up to half an hour with a health sister who does not know them. Clearly, preschool teachers and assistants in a kindergarten are much closer to observing a child’s development over time, in its right element and in a safe environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1265	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1268	I'm glad my grandchildren didn't stand in the kindergarten queue that my children had to do. What's so good is that the government has focused on completing the nursery service without going beyond the quality of kindergartens, as the council said. Kindergartens are among the most important contributors in providing children in a modern society with a safe everyday life. No parent can perform his or her daily tasks in a good way without the safety of the children. So far, there has been little political disagreement. For quality work in kindergartens, the Government has chosen three main objectives: to ensure equivalency and high quality, to strengthen kindergartens like the learning arena, and to have all children participate in an inclusive community. That is why I am very surprised that this debate has taken such a turn. Language screening in kindergarten has taken most of the attention from the opposition, and it is difficult to get the clarity of the concepts and the massive resistance. The minority – i.e. the opposition – does not want mandatory language testing of children in kindergarten. They're asking us not to do anything we don't intend to do. We do not propose mandatory language testing of all children in kindergartens, but we propose to provide an offer to map the child’s language at the age of three. We have recorded the massive influx of objections from different professionals. Fortunately, this image is also nuanced. For example, at the Oslo College today, the debate is unyanced and there is a lack of knowledge about different forms of mapping. I would like to ask the opposition: is not the argument of hearing impaired organisations important for the opposition? Isn't it important that those who need it the most will be caught up in a system? It is not the monitoring itself that is important, but the early detection of children with special language stimulation needs. That must be great! The fact that kindergartens have knowledge that they can organise good language environments only improves the quality of kindergartens. The main educational tool for finding out if children have delayed language development is observation. What's so daunting about it, when 92 pst. by municipalities that children’s language is already being observed in kindergartens? We just want to ensure that the mapping tools used are of high quality through professional assessment. We want our children to be safe and secure, including where they live. It is easy to fall outside the game and community if you don't have language and can be understood by the other children. Examples from Denmark have still been cited, which from 2007 has called on municipalities to offer a language assessment to all children. Parents may choose whether to avail themselves of the offer, with the exception of parents of bilingual children. I happen to have children in Danish kindergartens, and I just have to say that it has been only positive and safe to know that those children are being observed in kindergarten, that they are being followed up, so that we can also follow if they develop the Danish language so that they can follow all the activities and understand among the Danish children. The fact that the Danes now seem to be changing is more likely to be seen in the context of a general downward adjustment of a number of welfare goods in Denmark. This is one of many measures. Then there's another thing with the Danes, and it's that they're very concerned that the kindergartens should be prepared for the school. They have very strong and good dialogue with their parents in that area. They won't be pushed into school if they're not ready for it. That's how we're going to do it. So to the last one, the kindergartens are in a unique position to see if children are exposed to care failure. Strengthening cooperation with the protection of children and strengthening the skills of child care workers so that they are professionally able to make the difficult choices is really an investment in the future of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1292	There is a great deal of consensus that we should have a good kindergarten offer in Norway. There is a great deal of agreement in Stortinget that we should have a good and equal offer in all municipalities, and there is a great deal of agreement that we should have quality in kindergartens. There was also a large consensus on the 2003 orphanage agreement, and there was a strong consensus that the orphanage reform should be fully financed by state resources. This year the municipalities themselves had to contribute 700 million. kr in addition to the child-care allowance of the Stortinge. When you know the local economy, and when you know the tight and tough everyday life the municipalities have with many statutory tasks, you realize that this is tough for the municipalities. Sweden and Denmark have considered monitoring. They've gone away from it or reduced it. They believe that it takes away too much valuable time that is important to have with the children in terms of play and interaction, and the development of the children in that way. Many will perceive this survey as a start to a school — a survey of skills. Everyone agrees that kindergartens should develop, but many view the mapping as a minus. There must be an economy in place in the municipalities, and many believe that this survey will take part in the economy. It is believed that the development of toys is perhaps better — find other ways to drive kindergarten than what has been done up to today to define quality. Then you talk about dancing, about outdoor gardens, outdoor children's gardens, and you talk about a whole nursery that reflects society. We must have confidence in those who work in kindergarten. We must not call it noise when those who work in kindergarten, who are professionals, say something about this with screening. We can't call it noise. We have to listen to this kind of recording. These surveys may remind you of what is happening in China and what has happened in former Eastern Europe. Yes, it's a monitoring hysteria in Norway. We're going to map everything instead of looking at the children as a unit. This goes beyond quality, and, as I said earlier, it also affects the economy of kindergartens. The state subsidy to kindergartens lacks much. According to the KS, there is a need of SEK 1.5 billion to get the kindergarten agreement fully financed. So the promises have not been met. This is embarrassing. It's a defeat for the Storting, where there was a great deal of agreement about this. The Council of State did not say anything in its statement as to why the reform was not fully financed, and as to why it was not money. The funding should have been implemented as proposed by the Progress Party, by direct transfer of funds from the State to the kindergartens. There is no point in getting through the municipalities, because the municipalities are being overrun anyway. With the economic challenges of the municipalities today, it should be obvious that they could rely on the promise made by a large majority in Stortinget that the kindergarten reform should be fully financed. Municipalities are increasingly building kindergartens that parents want for their children. That's what the municipalities call quality. Simplification and cheaper solutions such as short-term kindergartens and family kindergartens are being reduced. In a situation of full child-care coverage, as is the case in many municipalities today – the municipalities have been good at following the Stortingen’s wish for full coverage – there will be children’s gardens with vacant spaces for periods of time, which will also increase average costs. This is a challenge for kindergartens, and it can lower quality. What do the government parties think about it? Nothing! Full child care coverage was an important project, and we should focus on that. Then the quality should also be there. The government must have a different focus than the focus on mapping, which it has today. Monitoring children should be done in the way they do in Denmark, through play and other activities, and not call it noise when employees and professionals say what they think, and when they talk about the consequences this will have for employees and children in kindergarten. We have to play with the employees, not just howl in party speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1311	I think it was nice to hear the Council of State point to this with the status attached to what is about children. This is because in a lot of areas, you don't take children so solemnly – it's not that dangerous. But in the extension of that, I was probably correspondingly disappointed by the Council of State when, on my question in the lineword shift, she did not have a single reflection related to the privacy dimension of what we are talking about, when we are now discussing this mapping. She talked about a lot else that I'm going to come back to, but the very thing that children are actually small people who have the same privacy requirements as the rest of us, she had no idea. I don't think I promised that very well. I think it's important that we sometimes get up through life and get the opportunity to start with blank sheets. I think there's a problem in school, that there might be a cause for stigmatisation through school. You get a stamp that you wear. To some extent, it's hard to get around just that. But is it really necessary – I would almost say – to start early? Is it really necessary that we start writing on the large book that will follow us? So the state council wanted what the Right thought about language mapping, and she's going to hear that. The thing is, if the Council of State had attended an hour earlier in this period, she would have seen that the Right has proposed – that we have promoted – proposals for language screening in the context of the four-year control, which is part of the health follow-up of children that we have in our society. We stand by that. But it's a point to keep it to the idea of health and not make it part of the idea of education. It's in the perspective of government parties and government proposals becoming problematic. Because there is a debate — and there has been a debate for some years — about the extent to which kindergarten is a game-based forum, or whether it is a place to start an educational course, so to speak. I remember that when the government had low appropriations for research in the previous big period, then the finance minister Kristin Halvorsen used to answer that one had a good conscience for this because of the big kindergarten bet, because that was the beginning of the education cycle. Well, I'm not going to draw it too far, but it's nevertheless a perspective to include. What you worry about — and also the Right’s concern — is that you lose the basic difference between kindergarten and school. Where the school should have a learning focus and use the tools it requires, the kindergarten should focus on playing and the development of the full range of what is involved in the development of a personality, i.e. where learning is a keyword in school, play should be a keyword in kindergarten. Even today, a well-educated kindergarten education will also follow in language. So I expect that when you're going to monitor this, it's about upgrading that effort in kindergarten. That's how I've understood it. It also means that additional competence is required. The lack of competence we have today by educational staff is becoming more penile, and we obviously have a resource issue in terms of staffing and education, as I think the Government has gone too easily by. The other weakness of this is that the kids who need it most may not go to kindergarten. They would have been caught if we had a language mapping during the four-year check. They won't be caught up in this. In this way, I also think it is striking that the Government is attacking the question of language development from that end, because that means, once again, the Government is putting system and system thinking ahead of actually reaching those who need it the most. So the right trusts the preschool teachers. We believe that language development will be carried out with competent teachers, regardless of whether you have a mandatory mapping or not. Our recipe is to get hold of this in connection with the four-year check.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1330	After hearing the debate today, it is only to note that the Government is now broadly in favour of improving the quality of kindergartens. At the same time, I have to say that I am a little surprised and a little confused about what is really Right Kindergarten policy. We look at the Right Exhibition Window in Oslo and what Torger Ødegaard is doing in the children's gardens in Oslo, it's a completely different policy than what the Right of the Stortinget wants. Torger Ødegaard has actually applied to the department to start learning goals in kindergartens, and he obviously sees the kindergartens as part of the education course in Oslo. Then I think it's a little strange that the Right of the Storing is so critical to a government that wants to actually monitor the language characteristics of the children in their three-year-old age, which has nothing to do with learning goals, and which has nothing to do with the Right of Oslo trying to implement. Then we have seen that the newspaper in the last few days has written about parents who go from private kindergarten to private kindergarten and ask their knees to have a kindergarten for their child, and make it an eye-catching matter. The situation is that parents have done this for many, many years now. What's positive is that there's fewer and fewer parents who do it, and hopefully, in a year's time, all parents don't want to go to the stage that you have to pray on your knees to have a kindergarten, because you actually have a full kindergarten. So we've gone from the fact that kindergarten was a right for the few, that it's now become a right for everyone. In 1975, it was actually just 7 pst. of children between one and five years of age with kindergarten, whereas today 96 pst. of all children who begin school have been in kindergarten before they begin school. So this is the biggest welfare reform in 30 years. We have received full child care coverage, and in addition we have legalised the right to children's playground. The message now is that we're taking the next step. Now we've put the quantity in place, and now we're going to ensure the quality further. What's positive here is that despite the massive expansion we've had in recent years, we've managed to keep up the pedagogical density. Well, notice is that some municipalities have received a derogation, but there have been no negative developments. But if we're going to succeed in filling up the unoccupied pre-school classrooms, we're going to have to train many new pre-school teachers in the next few years. That's what the government's been doing. We have expanded the education capacity by 900 new pre-school teacher training places, and if we continue to do so over the next few years, we will be able to cover up the unmanned places in 2012. Still, we'll be far from being in the goal. We – as the rapporteur on the matter mentioned earlier today – are the only OECD country with neither 50 pst. pedagogical density or 80 pst. pediatric competence in kindergartens. So we have to keep educating more. Gradually, we also have to set more ambitious targets for babysitting. I'm a little surprised at the right-hand criticism of kindergartens as a social bias target. On the part of the government parties, we believe that socializing is important, because that's what will give all children a good opportunity, and we know that the children who have gone to kindergarten have better conditions to cope later than children who haven't gone to kindergarten. We also know that children of wealthy parents use kindergarten to a greater extent than children of non-resourced parents. Ergo: Kindergarten is an important tool for equalising social differences. It pointed out the Distribution Committee when they handed over their position to former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen. But this has also been pointed out through the Public Health Institute's research report. In the end, I have to say that I am also a little surprised by the great battle around language mapping, because it is presented as if there is something completely new to start with in kindergartens, and on which all pre-school teachers are contradictingly torn. But 90 pst. by the municipalities today, and there are many pre-school teachers I have met recently, who believe that this is a very positive measure to enable them to identify which children need extra help with their language. They say very clearly that if we're going to make it, we're going to have to check all the kids, so we don't ignore the kids that most need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1343	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1346	I take the floor first to make it clear that the Christian People's Party wants to support proposal No. 4 from the right, which is distributed. We see it as a proper development for the kindergarten offer further to get a continuous admission, as long as it can be done in a way that allows municipalities to have sufficient time to process the applications, and phased into a responsible budget framework. We will support the proposal. Then I take the floor to follow up the debate on language mapping, because it is said from the government parties that there have been unclear arguments against language mapping. Well, the arguments have been very clear in many speeches, while the defence of this proposal has been all the more unclear. The representative Thommessen has had some important reflections and concerns about privacy and the need for children to actually start with blank sheets. When it is said to be 90 pst. of the municipalities already have this kind of offer, and that there are many pre-school teachers who think this is good, that is correct. But the fact is that the early school teachers' own organization has clearly stated in the committee's discussion that this proposal is actually opposed. This is because it is precisely because the introduction of such a requirement for municipalities and kindergartens actually involves a new policy and direction. Nor have we been given an answer as to how it should be understood that it is only about observation, which is not to be used in particular time, and which is to be a voluntary offer. How can observation of children be a voluntary offer to parents? Then I will quote from Solvency Eastrem from the University of Westfold, who is leading the work of introducing a new framework plan for kindergarten, which, in the hearing of the Committee, said: ‘The measurements of the Barnenhagen are about values that cannot be rewritten in terms such as evidence and power, dividends and profitability. The problem with testing and monitoring is that one forgets what is the real purpose, and that the tests in practice take over as a management tool, so that daily practice is directed towards more or less arbitrary detailed objectives.» It's not something special for the kindergarten sector. This is a generally recognised organisational theory for all organisations. This is a tool introduced that will affect further management and development of the nursery sector. When you also refer to the hearing impaired who confirmed at the hearing that it was the hearing that was important for them to be tested, you actually have other tools for it than to offer language mapping in all kindergartens across the country. The debate clearly shows that there is a desire to challenge the fact that someone chooses other things — that children do not go to kindergarten — and that there is a more performance-driven and school-focused kindergarten that we are moving towards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1364	When this debate is over, I think everyone who has their everyday life in kindergarten, or who every day relates to kindergarten as a parent, can lower their shoulders and take the discussion of language mapping with a slightly different focus. For some of the arguments that have been put into squares in terms of language mapping, this is about testing that we do not propose. We do not propose «testing», we do not propose «mandatory». We propose tools that allow children's language development to be monitored more consciously. It's actually very important because language development can be done, for example. launch measures in kindergarten — become much more observant in relation to how to work with languages in kindergarten, thus helping to give young people a better start. So this is about what kind of documentation or what kind of information you're going to transfer from kindergarten to school. It's an important debate, and it's both about how you've worked in kindergarten, and about what to tell about a child. There are questions about privacy – that is absolutely right. But there are also questions that aren't really privacy issues, but are they: Is it that a child should be allowed to start with blank sheets, that no one should know anything about you when you meet on the first day of school? It could be a noble measure in a way. But if there's a child who has special challenges, then it's wise that the school knows about it. But it should also be that if you have special interests – if there is something special you can – the school should also know about it. We will now ensure that we are sent to the hearing, that we take that discussion. It is important not to do anything over the head and think that the most uncritical transmission of information from kindergarten to school is the best. It is important to find a form of this that allows transfer of what is relevant and can help the child, but that adults can also have the opportunity to look at a child with new eyes. In the case of the Right, I simply don't understand anything. On the right in Oslo, a survey in the kindergarten called ‘Here I come...’ – from kindergarten to school. It was a score for children, not just related to language, but to many different skills. There was so much rebellion in Oslo that they had to withdraw it. Asker municipality, Stavanger municipality and various other Right-Handed municipalities operate with mapping of languages in Kinderhagen. Some people make it pretty reasonable. What is the Right's National Policy? To oblige the Right Local to stop it? Saying that this has nothing to do with language development or learning; this has to do with health, so it's going to be done at the health centre as it is today? But then I will wait and see what kind of national directives come from the Right of the Storting, when they have one opinion locally – sometimes quite extreme opinions about testing locally – and a completely different opinion centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1377	It has been interesting to follow the debate here. So we're dealing with quality in kindergartens. There are several proposals in the case, but the only thing that gets the proper debate is language mapping. Kindergarten quality must be more than just language mapping. There must be a diversity of offers to children in different kindergartens. I think when you get full babysitting, there's going to be a lot more focus on quality and on parents themselves being allowed to choose the kindergartens that best suit your child. But when the chairman of the committee, Gunn Karin Gjul, says in his statement that the children who go to kindergartens are doing better than the children who don't go to kindergarten, at least a representative from the Progress Party is going to sit. This is the difference between the socialist government we have today and the bourgeois side. The sociologists wrap it up in a nice way that they want all children to go to kindergarten in the first place. For the Advancement Party, it is important that parents choose whether to have their children in kindergarten or not. Then I think the government parties are explaining away the entire language test. It is not anyone who has sent an e-mail to us, or who has been at the hearing and made a statement on this. It is both the Education Association and pre-school teachers – it is they who are working on it every day. Reference is made to Denmark in several articles here. When Denmark has found that they are using unnecessary resources to test children who do not really need it, who do not need extra follow-up, rather think that the resources need to be spent on those children who really need it, I believe that Norway needs to look at the experiences that have been done there and bring them with it before we go into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1386	The Council of State doesn't understand anything about the Right Policy. I think we can all find municipalities around that might not follow the partisan. It is possible that there are some more Right-Handed municipalities that do not follow the partisan whip than that, for example. are worker party-controlled municipalities, but a certain width will be. We think it might be a point that you get reactions to things, and you have municipalities that actually run a little bit different. It's a completely different discussion than driving central directives to implement something like a system, and that's what this is about. Then it's me that doesn't understand anything. I don't understand anything about what the council thinks about language mapping. What is she really talking about? It's supposed to be voluntary. It shall not be mandatory, and then it shall not be a test. But what is it really? What are you going to do? You have to do something to do this mapping, right? You have to try something out, right? What's this about? It's impossible to figure out what this is about. So maybe it's not about that much? In that case, it might not be that much to talk about, but it's very difficult to get into. If you're going to demystify this, you have to be able to have some kind of concrete description of what language mapping means. Is this an additional education in pre-school teacher training? Is this about some kind of logopedic education? Should people come from outside to follow up on this? So some kind of description. If you want to implement this as a standard across the country because you want to clean up – I think it's a lot more than the Right-Handled municipalities when it comes to how to do it – you have to describe a standard that the municipalities have to follow. Otherwise, this is unsubstantiated. So here there are more questions in the air than there are answers, and that makes this a matter that is actually quite difficult to deal with. Then you have to expect reactions, and you have to expect the matter to be read in the light of the discussions that are otherwise in relation to kindergarten and knowledge goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1393	The president hopes that those who sit outside the hall will understand what we're doing, because you don't understand each other in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1396	It remains to be seen. First to Solveig Horne on the importance of kindergarten. We have a report from the Swedish Institute of Public Health that tells us that kindergarten is positive for children's language development, and that this is most pronounced in children of low-educated, low-income parents and a different native language than Norwegian. You can't ignore that. I'm going to quote from the Distribution Committee's report, where it says about pre-school children: ‘The measures lead to better performance of children at school and the completion of higher education, higher education and success in the labour market.’ That is one of the reasons why we want to raise the importance of kindergarten in relation to the future of the welfare state, not least children. Then it's the debate on mapping. What I hear the opposition say is, yes, we see what the government writes, we hear what the government says, but we don't believe it. It reminds me of the child who sticks his fingers in his ears, shakes his head and refuses to hear what is being said. To get through at the opposition here, I think you almost need pre-school teacher training to be able to take the right pedagogical approach. Thus, language mapping is already being carried out in almost all kindergartens. It is not a question of making this compulsory for children, but it should be compulsory for kindergartens to offer it to children. If the opposition's proposal is adopted, it does not involve the completion of the project's language mapping and its non-implementation. On the contrary, it will mean continuing language monitoring and observation of children, such as children. does in kindergarten where my daughter goes. There you have been doing this for a long time without me as a parent knowing it. But with the government's proposals, one will now be able to get this into order, with well-developed tools, with well-trained personnel to do so, and the parents get freedom of choice. That means there will be less freedom of choice with the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party than with the Government. So we want to do this just because it can help a lot of kids. It provides safety for kindergarten employees, so that they feel more secure that they do not ignore children who need follow-up and close help, and not least it represents a security for us as parents. I'll see the parents who will choose to turn down such an opportunity for their children. I don't think those of the opposition's parents who are parents will refuse when you actually see what a great opportunity this is to capture those children who need extra language stimulation, and who need extra help, so that they don't fall off and risk missing valuable learning for life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1414	I don't have as much to add as Arild Stokkan-Grande now said about language mapping. It's just two things. One is that we are now setting up an expert group of people from several Nordic countries to find our kind of language mapping. It is no wonder that there is scepticism about this, as language testing has been tried, especially in the Right-Handled municipalities, to which it is quite right and reasonable to respond. Now we're going to make sure that this is a language mapping based on observation, based on the qualities and competences of pre-school teachers, i.e. Hereafter the kindergarten teachers have, and on which pediatrics are based. We will set up a reference group to test this out in practice, so that we can see the benefits of having attention to children’s language development, which will enable rapid action to be taken. Only two chords about Denmark: they have not summarized that the language mapping in Denmark has been so time consuming that they have had to give up. They've found that approximately. 1 pst. the time spent by pedagogues has been used in language mapping. It is part of a major review of reporting in many public arenas that Denmark has concluded the way they have done in terms of language mapping. Then I must state that it will be with joy and joy I am going to meet Torger Ødegaard, who is the school office for the Right in Oslo, the next time, because it turns out that he does not follow the party whip, and that what he is doing in Oslo is contrary to the Right Party program. I think that's interesting. It also appears in Stavanger, in Asker and in many other Right-Handed municipalities. I think it comes as a surprise to them, and that it's still very hard to understand. I'm not sure they understand what is Right's policy regarding language mapping. So just a little comment in the end. In the debate, it seems like someone's talking about play or learning. I believe that is completely contrary to what we and our kindergarten tradition stands for. There's play and learning. The whole point is that very much of what a child learns is just learned through play. Many of the ways to stimulate young children are just through play. In addition, learning to play is incredibly important. Not all children come to the kindergarten with it as a starting point either. It's incredibly valuable for later. So to the value of kindergartens. There are no socialists who have found out what is the value of kindergartens. We know that children benefit greatly from going to kindergartens. The more challenging their starting point, the more valuable it is. But it also underlines that there must be quality in kindergartens. If we're going to be able to get a good starting point for all children, it's not just about getting a kindergarten, it's also about having qualitatively good kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1976]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1444	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1453	St.meld. No 49 for 2008-2009, the Museum of Futures, gives a good and honest insight into the Norwegian museum landscape, which appears to be very diverse and rich, but also somewhat unwieldy. The ABM message focused on structuring, from 300 units to about 300 units. 75 units today, a process that has been and is voluntary, but we see that the units that have been through a consolidation process have been strengthened out of it. It is also worth mentioning that the escalation plan in the ABM message is met, of 298 million. kr in 2009. Only in the last four years has there been an increase of 73 pst., a good starting point for further work. This message focuses on development of competence. This will be done by focusing on the core of the activities of the museums themselves, namely the four Fs: management, research, dissemination and innovation. The notification makes various measures visible to ensure professional development throughout the field of activity represented by these four fs. It is important to clarify that everything cannot be done at the same time, that there must be a certain priority to, and, not least, most of the work must be done by the museums themselves, but the state must play on layers. As regards the need for new buildings, construction or rehabilitation, the list is long. We know that there are reported projects of about NOK 1 billion from all over the country. It tells us a little about the importance of the museums at local and regional level. The state is an active co-player to realize these, and the general rule is that the state funding share is above cap. 320 item 73, National Cultural Buildings, is on about 1/3, as it is also in the allocation of instruments for cultural construction. One of several reasons why many museum buildings need to be done can be linked to the number of objects the museums have and how they are secured. From an administrative point of view, there is cause for concern when we record that very much of what has been collected is neither adequately registered nor secured. It's a challenge for all of us. The Committee is therefore pleased to draw up a national collection management plan where the protection and conservation of museum collections will be central. Both the digitisation message and this message underline the need to facilitate a targeted focus on the digitisation of objects and other material in the museums. Such work will require considerable resources, and it will challenge the museums to produce realistic figures and forecasts when it is to be implemented. The Committee endorses such an approach. It is important to clarify that everything is not just about digitisation of objects. Many of the museums in the national network manage collections and not least buildings requiring special skills in traditional crafts – what is commonly called ‘action-based knowledge’. The challenge here is to be able to recruit professionals for these professions. If the museums are to develop into important social institutions, it is necessary to work to get even more people interested in the history and knowledge managed there. Studies show that many choose not to visit our museums for several reasons. Priority should be given to the work on increasing the number of visitors over the years to come. A conscious commitment to the role of museums as travel life actors can be an important contribution to attracting more visitors. Another way could be to find new forms of both dissemination and making available. An important element here will be linked to an increased investment in research. It can help to make the collections and facilities of the museums even more exciting by providing new knowledge through collaboration with other disciplines. It, together with the use of new technologies, can create new ways to disseminate the exciting and diverse content found in our museums. The majority of the Committee also believe that such a commitment can provide opportunities for new exciting technology and business development in the museum field. I said in my introduction that the Norwegian museum landscape may seem inconclusive. The reason I said that is because there are many museums under other departments, which are therefore not covered by the message we are dealing with today, but which are nevertheless an important part of Museums-Norway. In order to improve the coordination of museum and cultural memory policies in this country, the Committee believes that interministerial cooperation between the departments that have museums in their portfolio should be provided. The majority therefore ask the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on how it can be done. Finally, the Committee would encourage the museums to take the role of social institutions seriously, put important issues on the agenda and raise important societal debates. Art and culture must be accessible to everyone, so that we get a more tolerant and open and wiser society. Here the museums have an important role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1481	The Communication The Future Museum is a positive action, which will enhance the competence of the various cultural institutions in the field of public development. The museum of the future must contribute to the development of a better art and cultural life, reaching a wider range of target groups in the population of Norway. However, Norwegian cultural life is largely funded by public actors, in line with the wishes and priorities of national political authorities, which may be regrettable to many. The natural consequences of cultural independence and of market willingness to pay are that museums need to focus on exhibitions that are interesting and opportunities to generate larger revenues. Most non-commercial cultural actors have a strong desire to develop and prioritise artistically interesting products, leading to a more limited focus on audience visits. On the other hand, museums must have a cultural offer as when as broad an audience as possible. At present, museums have access to information on the number of audiences at the various museums, but little knowledge of which groups are reached by the offers, and which are outside, which I believe is an important area. New measures may be positive to ensure that as many as possible of the inhabitants of Norway are reached, and that an offer reaches a much wider audience than we see today. I would like to stress that we must not forget the importance of safeguarding our cultural heritage in all of this. Cultural memories, both intangible and tangible, are the traces of the lives and activities of our ancestors that can still be seen and experienced in today's society. This is important to bring with it. Cultural heritage binds society together, as well as self-esteem. We have an obligation to pass on knowledge of our past. The state is a large owner of cultural memories and has a special responsibility to take care of them. The Progress Party promoted a proposal for a representative scheme for the rental of art and cultural objects. We got a lot of praise from the Workers' Party and the government parties. Yes, we also received support for this proposal. The aim of the proposal was to establish a system that makes art and cultural taxes available and increases any income for the museums. Six years later, a rental scheme is still not in place to make art collections available to many more. You can wonder why the department and the council have not followed up the matter properly. This is regrettable. There are still a lot of art and cultural objects hidden in magazines. The audience deserves to enjoy these. Many in business are also interested in renting them for decoration in their premises. Governments have been in England to learn how to get bigger audience visits to the museums, I could read in the Evening Post. But it's already developed a forum for it. Norwegian audience development, which works in Bergen, is just working on these things. It is a membership organisation that is working to gain knowledge to increase audience attendance in individual museums. The municipality of Bergen shall be praised for taking the initiative to set up such an office. It's completely new in Norway. Governments don't have to travel to England to learn this. It had been a trip to Bergen. This will lead to increased understanding and curiosity about cultural offerings among people who do not already know about such offers. The initiative may focus on the important work being done in the national museums, and it is important to cooperate on actions to learn from each other. The last ten years have seen great developments in radio and television. I also see that there are people thinking about creating a text museum. I want the Council of State to see if we can establish an audiovisual museum, that is, that we can take care of all the audiovisual equipment that is now in progress, for example. at NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1500	One will see from the observations of the case that here there is a great consensus and broad consensus around the development further for the museums – apparently. For the most interesting issues relating to museum issues right now, the message is not what it says; it is not what it says. While the Stortinget has been invited to wear through hundreds of pages with a politically quite harmless long straw, the department has ‘cooked’ together a proper recipe. They have de facto completed ABM development by taking the library section, or the B, out and moving it over to the National Library. By doing so, if you have understood correctly – it is not so good to understand so much of it, because we have had little to know – there has been a sharp breach of what has been the policy within the museum, library and archive in the last ten years. It's a very dramatic move that raises big questions there's every reason to discuss both in this room and otherwise – much more important questions than anyone I've seen in the museum message so far. What are the actual, professional assessments of doing this breakup? It is true that we are living in a time of change, where it has been thought that these three fields have much in common and could develop projects together in the future that would strengthen all the fields, including the museum area – not least the museum area, as far as the museums are the most sustainable and powerful institutions in this image. They'll be bearable in many places. I also have to ask what's left of ABM-u when it becomes an A and an M. What are the Government's thoughts further for the museums? Are you thinking of a separate body? Are you thinking of a separate body together with the archive section? There are questions that I expect we'll know more about here today. Not least within the archive area, there is great concern, as far as you can see, that the Archives may be the place where you end up. Not least, in a power concentration perspective, there is reason to think about it. We believe it would be right to follow the ABM idea further, and build projects further. I see from the Evening Post – because that’s where you have to retrieve your information – that we need to get a digitisation board that supposedly has to take care of this that should be common in ABM-u. It's probably going to be a good advice, and we're looking forward to hearing what it's going to do, but I'm going to stress that the ABM tank has been a little bit more than just what's related to digitization. There should have been a broad range of projects and pilots where we could have gained experience and developed the field. These could include consolidation between archives and museum institutions, joint location and operation of museums and libraries, perhaps joint preservation and storage solutions within archives and museums, perhaps also libraries. The possibilities are many. The question now is: who will be the engine of such projects in the future? Who will sit on the cross-cutting competence that will actually build and stimulate such projects to see the light of day? Maybe it's the department's new cultural protection department? Maybe we'll know and hear a little bit more about that. Not least, it's putting an end to the ABM and moving the businesses over to central Oslo-based institutions a rather power-concentrating grip. It's a theme I want to come back to. But I think that the concerns we've seen from the library field, and not least from the public libraries in relation to transferring the library sector to the National Library, are just about those perspectives. I look forward to hearing the statements of the Council of State here today. I expect her to have an answer to what's going to happen to the A and the M. I expect her to sketch up the thinking that's behind the removal of ABM-u, and what you think instead. I should also like to know how she thinks that the responsibilities will lie in the future in relation to developing this field. Finally, I would also like to say that the Right supports the Left's proposal, which has been presented as proposal No. Three, four, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1517	The notification provides a thorough review of the situation and status of the sector. Substantial challenges are identified, in particular related to the protection of object material, the digitisation of collections and in relation to research and knowledge development. We also know that there is a strong need to strengthen interministerial cooperation. Today, for example. too far apart from museum policy and cultural memory policy, and we must avoid the necessary action being delayed as a result of unclear responsibilities. The notification deals with the museums receiving State grants from the Ministry of Culture. I also think it is important to focus on the smaller, local community museums that do not receive state support or that are part of the professional museum networks. It is very important that these too benefit from an investment in the sector, including: by enabling these museums to use the competence of the consolidated units. As regards the consolidation process, this has been – and is – a comprehensive process. A number of museums have chosen to consolidate themselves in line with signals from collapse and government. The Christian People's Party believes very well has been achieved through this. At the same time, we must respect the fact that conditions are not conducive to aggregation everywhere. I think there has to be room for different solutions, and we have to be very careful about using economic coercion here. But mainly the Christian People's Party agrees that the extensive structural change has been positive for the sector. It was my party colleague Ola T. Lånke who was the case rapporteur for the ABM reform when he was treated at Stortinget. The Christian People's Party has followed the process closely both in government and in opposition. There is still some work to be done, but we believe that we are on the right track. A key objective of cultural policy is to preserve, disseminate and further develop cultural heritage and values. Culture protects about traditions. Culture gives us root fastness, security and identity. The museums have a very central role here. Historical impulses and thoughts – and evidence of this – must be available. The museums are an anchor fixture where we find the objects and the exact archives of cultural memories that are necessary to bring out the past. It is an important state task to ensure that new generations can take part in the actual documentation of our historical roots. I want to underline the fundamental role of the archival function in a society. The significance of this will always be fixed, despite changes in both the interior and the outer landscape. Not least, this is important in a society that is drowning in a flood of mass-produced information of varying calibres. Archiving and museum policy is the seventh and last to ensure a reservoir of authentic documentation. We tend to want to reconstruct history in our own image. The past, however, consists of an abundance of actual events, and here, of course, it is possible to distinguish between true and false. But this requires basic knowledge, fixed references and reliable documentation. This is a prerequisite for holding a meaningful debate on the past and seeing history in the light of our own time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1532	The museums are our common memory. It's our common arena to create perspectives on our lives today. It's a common venue for debate on our lives today, our knowledge, and it's a fundamental institution of formation. Competence centres exist in many local settings — and in many large settings. There is a lot of beauty about the museum in the message, and many of the perspectives that are included also share the left. But in the cultural promise, the museum sector has been a forgotten sector. The left has prioritised the museum in all its alternative budgets because we have thought they have suffered from the more popular measures. It's important now that we get to a national level for our collections – to take care of what we've already collected, and to digitize it. It is an important but also very comprehensive task. That's why it's important that we get a plan for it. It is important to be willing — and able — to carry out those priorities. Then it is important for the Left to focus on that this is also an area we need a lot of research on in the future – both in terms of dissemination and also to link research to the environments that the museums currently represent. But we are also very pleased that the University of Oslo is now working on having a museumology as its own bachelor, which we believe can lead to much higher quality in museum dissemination, because museumology – i.e. communication and museum knowledge – has not been a subject of its own at any of the educational institutions in Norway, and we who have studied history and such, in a way also own the distribution part. I think it's going to be an exciting bachelor, and it's going to be exciting to see the application for the subject, and I think it's going to lead to positive things for Norwegian museums. In this context, I can also mention that we are a little bit more concerned about the archival subject, which is becoming a smaller and smaller subject linked to the University. While it was before a separate vocational education to become an archivist, it is now becoming a smaller and smaller subject of history. So these have to be seen in the context – both the archive subject and the new museum subject. The left is, on the same line as the Christian People's Party, very critical to much of the coercion. When you write that in the notes that 60 pst. is satisfied, isn't it so much. It's actually a scary little number when you were going to do something like that that, that's to raise the museums. I basically agree with the idea of aggregation. I think there have been ‘necessary rounds’ to use the position’s notation, but I’m not sure that “necessary rounds” are needed, as stated in the comments. I think a lot of the pressure and a lot of the sizes of the units are now taking away some of what has been the driving force of the Norwegian museum movement. Norwegian museum movement has been marked by a great deal of volunteering and burning souls, and there should not be such a large unit that the flame disappears. The flame of the subject, the flame of history and the burning commitment that has been seen in the case of a lot of museums, is what has raised the Norwegian museum movement, and we can't get such big units that we lose the burning commitment of both volunteers and professionals. So short of the proposals we are making. Firstly, we support proposal No. 1 in the case. We are not going to go for proposal No. 2, as we feel that it is a little strange to bring forward one museum need in society in that way, without us being involved in the committee's proceedings. Proposal No. 3 is based on the fact that we were quite shocked when we got the news that you actually shut down ABM development. We fully agree with all the remarks made by the Olemic Thommessen in this context. We expect these to be issues that are being discussed in Stortinget, and that is why we have tabled proposal No. 3 and hopes to join it, which places such a decision where a decision is to be made. Proposal No. 4 is about to get to the escalation plan of the infrastructure and assembly management that I mentioned in my post. The fifth proposal is that we have adopted a cultural law here in Stortinget that is not very effective. It's nice on paper, but without much content. We would have a common library, archive and museum law. It had actually had a certain effect on cultural work. Then we also promote proposal No. 6, which goes on the small and exposed subjects, which are an important part of the dissemination of Norwegian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1555	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1558	We have a large width among the museums in our country, from the Norwegian People's Museum in Oslo to the Baronian Rosendal in Hardanger, from the Norwegian Technical Museum to the Nynorsk Cultural Centre. The theme, profile and way of working vary greatly, and this is important. We need many different kinds of museums in Norway to reflect the diversity of our society. We agree that the museums manage and distribute valuable parts of our cultural heritage. They select, maintain, and make available collections. It provides a basis for knowledge and experiences about social and cultural development. It is an objective that everyone should have access to this cultural heritage. In 2000 Stortinget gave its connection to the main features of the ABM message. The message being processed today is a status report. It shows what the museum landscape looks like eight years after the reform. These include: the implementation of a major structural reform. Extensive consolidation has led to larger trade unions and has strengthened the museums, so that they have more resources to play at. In recent years, large units have been established: Hedmark County Museum, Westfold Museum, Akershus Museum, to name a few. So a lot is in place, but in some states it'll still be right to look at the need for further consolidation. It is also pointed out by the Committee. In this message, however, we outline a new main focus. From now on, attention shall be paid to the professional and qualitative development of the museums. A general perspective for such a development is the social role of the museums. The museums manage a cultural heritage to which everyone should have access and may put important topical issues on the agenda. A lot has happened here in the last few years. Some examples: The Akershus Museum made an exhibition on swine flu in November 2009 and presented, among others: the following question: Are the authorities responsible, or is it just hysteria? The Norwegian Technical Museum’s exhibition ‘Sanatorie children’ in the autumn of 2008 documents abuse of tuberculosis-related children at sanatoriums in the 1950s. Several newspapers followed up. I do not agree with the Progress Party, which seems to claim that there is a contradiction between reaching a wider audience and investing in quality at artistically interesting exhibitions. I think it's pretty much a relationship. The museum exhibitions that have a good professional development also reach a wider audience. After all, we have seen in recent years that the museum's visits have increased by 30 pst. since 2001. I note that the Committee is in favour of this, and we are also committed to carrying out public studies and developing much more targeted dissemination actions. Norwegian public development in Bergen is a good measure in this respect. The message also points to major challenges to address. This concerns the management of the collections. There is a need for better transparency, registration, the development of preservation services and better magazines. As far as collecting management is concerned, the Norwegian Museum Association has made a lot of good contributions. They see the need for coordination at national level to preserve and develop collections. The Museum Association also points to the close relationship between collection management and digitisation. This is valuable input that I want to take with me. We have formulated ambitious objectives for management, research, dissemination and renewal in the Communication, and I am pleased that the Committee is so strongly behind its main features. Finally, I would like to add that with regard to the organisation of ABM development, I will come back to Stortinget with a proposition in connection with the revised national budget. So the size will have plenty of opportunity to discuss these relationships. Finally, I would like to point out that in 2014 it is the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. The museum is in a unique position to communicate both the history of 1814 and the development of modern Norway in the last 200 years. This will be a work that we will strengthen towards the 200th anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1584	I would like to start by promoting the proposals of the Progress Party. I should have done it during my post, but I'm doing it now in the line change. For the rental and lending of art: the state has a lot of art in the magazines, they have a lot in stock, they have a lot in the museums. Municipalities, schools and homes can enjoy this. Galleries, public and private enterprises can also enjoy these huge taxes. I even believe that the state can make money on this, and I believe that many, many can enjoy it. We have the Rikstheater, which reaches all over the country. I wish District Norway too could have enjoyed these art taxes hidden in Oslo. I therefore have a question to the Council of State: why does the Council of State not follow the decision of the Stortingen on the issue of lending art? And why doesn't the Council of State come back to Stortinget if you have a lot of trouble getting this done?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1596	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1599	Renting art is a good idea, but it also has some challenges, including: in the case of insurance. But we have therefore asked ABM development to investigate art rentals and will come back with a concrete proposal at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1604	I notice that the Council of State will come back to us with a case about the organisation of ABM-u. But now it's a little late to cheat when your nose's gone. This is something the Government has clearly initiated. The board has left, and I guess there are some employees who have already agreed to move to a new job. Let's just say that we're going to be allowed to talk about it in retrospect. I might have hoped that we'd have an opportunity to think about this in the past, but it didn't. And then we're going to know that this is going to be the case, and then we're going to have an M and an A left in abm-u. The question is, what about them? It's not without consequences that you're now putting this picture around. What does the Council of State think about the M and possibly the A in what's left? How does she think this should be handled in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1611	I notice that the representative Olemic Thommess is conservative in a literal sense. He doesn't want to change any established structures in any way. The right party often talks about the renewal of the public sector, but when we promote a proposal that 20 employees working with the library in ABM development should get a new leader, sit in about the same building and work on the same tasks, there's too much renewal for the right. We're coming back to Stortinget to discuss this. But I want to contribute to the renewal of the cultural sector in this area. In some areas of Culture-Norway, there are double administrations. I will therefore go through several parts of cultural life to see if we can make more effective in getting more culture out to the people. That's why we're going to discuss how to organize the rest of what's involved in ABM development, in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1618	I use the opportunity to state that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the distributed proposals No. Three, four and six from the left. Then to the Council of State. After all, it is gratifying to see that there is a broad consensus on museum policy, and that there is a broad majority to raise this area in the future. And if we look back in time, we see that since the processing of the ABM message, changing governments and changing political majority have been involved in the promise that this field is now in. But then my question goes to the Council of State in an area that has been kind of outside the consolidation process and the strengthening that has now taken place, namely the local town halls, which are largely run by volunteers with private and small municipal funds around and are not included in the consolidation. What will the Council of State do to ensure that they too are given competence and can enjoy the growth of the sector – since the parties of government were not involved in the otherwise glittering remarks of the Christian People's Party in three areas of the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1627	I believe that the consolidation process is an advantage for all museums, including small, local community museums, because when we spend less time on administration and more on building up competences, it is an advantage for the small, local museums that Hope is occupied with. They need skills and they need knowledge. I therefore believe that, on a general level, this consolidation of the museum is an advantage for the small museums. But this also depends on the allocation of the cultural sector locally. We've seen in recent years that there's been a lot of interest in building up local museums, and it's also contributed to, as the representative was involved in, a lot of local, volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1632	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1637	It's the Government's response during the line change that makes me take the floor now, because I have to say that it was an unusually poor answer to what I think was a very timely question. You go to drastic political action without even giving a single professional reason why you wanted to do it. The phase-out of B development appears to be reactionary, visionless and without necessary signals of how to renew this field. The whole idea of the ABM idea was that you wanted to look forward, you wanted to build new constellations, and you wanted to strengthen disciplines and build barriers between disciplines. This was a grip that had the future in its own right. Then it may not have been delivered as you would have liked, and I think it has a lot to do with us having been through a demanding consolidation process in the museum area. And it's probably something about, after all, that you have to do one thing at a time. But I had really waited, and the Right had really waited, that when the consolidation was now – what to say – more or less laid aside, that one could then really start working with a forward-looking thinking. The grip that is now taking place does not appear to be modernisation. It seems like a reactionary grip, and it's moving back to the start -- we're back almost where we started ten years ago. In reality, there is a signal towards a significant concentration of power around heavy institutions in Oslo. It's strange that the Center Party in particular can be involved in this way of approaching this issue. Modernisation is about trying to look into the glass sphere and find temporal grips that are also economical. There is no time-consuming approach here, the clock is cut back, and there is not a single professional, forward-looking justification for why you want – fundamentally – to change the course in relation to the politics of archives, libraries and museums. The professional environment in all three areas is deeply shocked. The Board of Directors of ABM-u has resigned, because they believe that their mandate is no longer present. Then I really have to ask: what kind of handling in the department is this, that you run a case of such importance without it being anchored in the professional environments? There's some bastant messages coming back, not least from the library sector, which thinks they've been kept aside, that this is a process that's been a pretty heavy lid over it. And then you run with this. Why is there such an urgent need for this to be done now? Why couldn't one wait, and get a proper process, a good professional justification and a debate in Stortinget, which the Stortinget deserved?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1650	The President would point out that the representative Thommes would like to disagree deeply with the Council of State's response during the change of line, but to say that there was an unusually poor answer, that the President would not allow it to pass in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1653	If the representative had listened to my reply, which he obviously was not satisfied with: I said relatively emphatically that I would come back to Stortinget with this matter. We will then have a broad opportunity to discuss this in the context of a proposal and also in the context of the presentation of the revised national budget. As for this change, I will explain it further later. But what's important to me is to look at the development of the libraries in the years to come. There are major challenges in the library field. The National Library now manages a large proportion of the music archives and film archives. To get live libraries in the years that are coming, I believe in coordination of competences. To a large extent, there is a double administration, if we look at what is today the mandate of ABM development and what is the mandate of the National Library. And government double administration I'm not a follower of. I am a supporter of pooling skills to renew and develop the people's libraries. That is why I have tabled this proposal, which we will come back to Stortinget in a very ordinary way at a later stage. This review was announced to the Stortinget in the spring, in connection with the presentation of a big message, it was notified to the Stortinget in connection with the state budget, and it comes back to Stortinget in the form of a roll-out proposal and in the context of the revised national budget, so this is a thorough, completely ordinary process dealing with the relocation of some state jobs. Olemic Thommessen and I can also discuss this matter at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1662	The next speaker is the Olemic Thommess. He has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1666	This matter, in so far as it has been notified at all, has been mentioned as a half-witted display in the library message. I guess that's what it's referred to. Then I take note that the Council of State is undertaking a significant reform, that it will actually have been implemented before the Stortinget has been invited to discuss it, and that she cannot explain any technical reason why the reform was to be carried out. I think that's a lot of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1673	I notice that the representative Thommess has not received what the government announced in the library notice on this matter, nor did we get what we announced in the state budget. The government can't take responsibility for this, but others have got these signals. In what's called Museum News, you've got this in a perfectly correct way. ‘In last year’s library message, it says, ‘there were signals that important library tasks could be transferred to the National Library. The 2010 State Budget reinforces these signals.’ So Stortinget has been kept constantly informed about this matter. That Olemic Thommess has a different opinion, that he wants to preserve the system as it is, that he doesn't want this, it's another matter, but here it has been a thorough treatment, warning of the Storting, and the Storting will also get the matter processed at a later stage. Then we might discuss what is the content, what is the substance, where the Right wants to hold on to what is, while we want to renew the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1682	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1977]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1698	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines with up to three lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1707	I would like to thank the Committee for its work on this matter. This is an important theme which the Progress Party has also put on the agenda on various occasions. As rapporteur of the case, I wanted to elaborate on the subject of a worthy death. Unfortunately, we get a polarization fast when we are going to debate death and not least a worthy death. We all know that death is the price we humans have to pay for life, yet death is taboo and, through constant institutionalization, largely removed from people's everyday lives. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is united in a number of joint comments on both quality of life and autonomy in relation to the dying. It was essential for me to emphasise the need for an overall approach to the dying and its relatives, and stress that this goes on at different levels to ensure that death can become a natural continuation of life. The Committee is broadly in favour of such emphasis. Proposals want a life-help plan to be drawn up and five points should be highlighted. The Party of Progress and the Right share such a vision, with the exception of the form of financing for mitigating treatment. The government parties do not want a life support plan, but point through our common comments to several improvement points in view of serious sick and dying patients. There is a cross-political consensus on the importance of strengthening continuing training and research efforts in the area of relieving treatment. It also points to the need for cooperation both horizontally and vertically in healthcare. The Committee believes that it is necessary to stimulate the establishment of outpatient teams and that there is a need to look at what prevents such teams from being set up to an adequate extent today. An overall committee points out that there are too few municipal hospitals today in relation to the need. It also refers to the fact that most health businesses have palliative teams and the importance of ensuring the transfer of competences from these teams to other departments and environments. Hospices have been groundbreaking in terms of giving the dying a worthy end to life through a holistic approach of good and caring care and, not least, humanity. This is a form of palliative treatment that may include pain relief, mental follow-up and overall care. Serious illness, death, and grief can jeopardize one's self-image, and can be experienced as a personal threat. Fear, fear, helplessness, despair and anger are normal feelings in such a situation. But death need not be evil and painful for a human being. For some, death can actually be a relief that is met with relief and tranquillity. The palliative treatment aims to meet seriously ill and dying and their relatives in a holistic way that takes account of all these factors. There is a significant bias over who is receiving a palliative offer today. Crushed amounts to 95 pst. by patients on palliative units. It is important to focus also on other groups of seriously ill and dying patients, so that they also receive a comprehensive treatment. All 95 pst. by those who die in nursing homes do not receive the adequate relief and care they need in the final phase of life. I also chose to raise seriously ill and dying children in this case, and sees to my delight that it has caused several others to focus on the issues of parents of children born with severe malformations and limited life prospects. Annually, about 160 children die in their homes without the child or relatives having any professional network around them. It is almost a contradiction that at the beginning of life children will die. But it happens, unfortunately. Some parents do not deal with such a situation at all. I have heard of parents who have depreciated their child in the first year of life and avoided contact, while the child has been subject to public care for nearly 20 years. I have heard of parents who have gone fully into the task of providing the child with the greatest possible care and love, giving up their own job and career while they have been living with some sort of waiting care. I expect the Council of State to take a closer look at this issue. There is a great need to increase the effort to help the seriously ill and dying and their relatives. The funding of relieving treatment is a key factor here. I would strongly recommend to the government parties to look at proposal No. Four more times. In an explanatory form, the parties to the government agree to this proposal. The only thing this proposal has in addition is to ask for financial barriers to interaction to be removed. It will be a bad signal in view of the work of the Cooperation Reform, whether that is what makes the Government parties not to support the proposal. The Progress Party points out that today’s funding key such as the ‘Bondevik parties’ and the red-greens is behind, can be said to premise the hospitals in the event of short deathbeds, which we find suspicious. Funding must be organised in such a way that the dying person is treated in a dignified way, even if the death phase is prolonged. Pain is central when we talk about relieving treatment. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the Progress Party is standing alone talking about patients who experience pain relief no longer having an effect. When even medical associations in Scandinavia have studies on how doctors will handle patients with uncontrolled pain, politicians cannot close their eyes. It is precisely as the ethical and medical dilemma of large doses of painkillers that can actually take life arises. This has nothing to do with active death help, but is the reality of daily health professionals, and who also politicians have to dry up to address. We can't just wait for a new Sandsdalen, Ottesen or Husebø case and then act on the basis of tabloid suggestions. Medical guidelines and guides are needed, there is a need for a plan of overall care and care for the ill and dying and their relatives – regardless of the age of the deceased and whether the deceased is at home or in an institution. I take this up with me the proposals to which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1726	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1729	Life help and relief in the final phase of life is one thing that affects us all. We are concerned that the individual himself should be able to choose where to end your life as far as possible. Today, most people die in hospitals or hospitals, but the possibility of ending their life in a familiar environment with their family and loved ones around them can be a real alternative for many. That is why we are concerned about having good knowledge and good practice for palliative treatment in municipalities. There are now many municipalities that have built their own palliative departments that offer a good deal. We see that further development of palliative sites in the community health service should become an important part of the cooperation reform – building out outpatient palliative teams and places for relief. A great deal has been done in the area of life support and relief, and in the 2015 care plan there are several measures to strengthen the provision of services to care users, including those in the final phase of life. There is currently a grant scheme for relief and care at the end of life aimed at strengthening the provision of facilities outside the hospital. The grant is intended for community health services and some measures directed by private and non-profit institutions serving households. Furthermore, the grant for empowerment measures for relief and care at the end of life has been collected under the same heading as grants to teaching homes and teaching homes. The measures shall be seen in the context of national cancer strategy, where the competence and capacity to follow-up of patients in the municipal service are central, and they must be seen in the context of the activity of educational hospitals. With regard to the competence of nursing staff, we will refer to the Government's competence and recruitment plan The Competence Plan 2015, which has as its objective, among other things. raising the formal level of education in the care service, creating greater professional scope and strengthening guidance, in-house training and continuing training. An important subject area for the lift of competences is precisely palliation. As part of the commitment to competence, a project has been launched to enhance ethical competence in the service. The ‘Cooperation on Ethical Competences’ project shall contribute to enhancing the ethical competence of municipal health and care services. In 2009, 100 municipalities participated in the project. Over time, all municipalities shall be given the opportunity to participate in the project and to establish meeting places for ethical reflection. A lot of good palliative treatment is taking place today at hospitals, in the municipalities and at the home of the individual, but we can always get better, and we have to work for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1742	I will first give tribute to the Christian People's Party which has proposed a plan for life support. Right-wing support for all proposals except for proposal No. 6, concerning financing. In addition, I would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate him for a thorough and good work on the matter, as well as for the presentation here in the Chamber. Care at the end of life is perhaps one of the most demanding health care tasks that challenges us both as professionals and politicians. Every day, people experience serious illness and close losses that force them into a totally changed life situation. We meet such challenges very differently, depending on how prepared we are, the life situation we are in, reactions in the environment, and not least the help provided from the health and care services. Respect for human dignity is put on a serious test when we meet people in the final phase of life. It is in these situations that the real human vision of healthcare and health professionals comes for one day. It's just close to the extremes we find the value test pieces in our society. Human dignity is especially vulnerable to being violated or threatened in the final phase of life. Death is institutionalised, decriminalised and largely left to specialists. Although the offer has been much better in recent years, there are still far too many examples of serious ill and dying getting inadequate help. In order to counteract the demands for health care to contribute to the self-chosen end of life, it is important to ensure that the offer given to people at the end of life is as good as possible both human and professional. The main challenge is to ensure that the individual patient is properly offered, of good quality and at the right level of healthcare. As far as possible, provision must be made for healthcare to be provided as close as possible to home or at home if the patient so wishes. A serious illness affects not only the patient but also the immediate family, friends and community. Many seriously ill patients are often isolated, they are not seeking contact themselves, and those on the outside are afraid to care. The specialisation in the health care system means that you can lose the whole of your care. This is where the hospice philosophy has shown its way. The value base is optimal treatment, care and care that addresses the physical, mental, social and spiritual and existential needs of patients. Good and thoughtful offers create trust and security for patients, for relatives and for professionals. The main point is that people are met and seen. It is necessary to give serious sick and dying a real choice in relation to where they want to spend the last days of life. This is particularly important in the light of the fact that we are a multicultural society, where people have different views on how a worthy end of life should be. For many, it's important to be at home in the final phase of life, others want to be somewhere else where they can have peace. This requires that we provide good home-based care and at the same time build several hospices as an offer to those who want it. If more people are to be given the opportunity to end their lives at home in accordance with their own wishes, we must provide them and their relatives with security for qualified assistance. Ambulatory palliative teams can provide this security, provided that they have flexible arrangements in the municipal health and specialist health services, and that they cooperate and interact on a comprehensive offer. Private offers funded by the public can be an important resource in the provision of services to the seriously ill and dying. Such offers must be adapted to the ordinary service and be part of the total offer to the individual patient. The words ‘unfortunately, there is nothing more we can do’ are often heard from health professionals when someone is told that curative treatment does not help. Then I would say, well, it's decided "more" we can do, but this "more" is something other than an attempt to heal. This ‘more’ is about helping a human being live until that door.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1763	The meeting will now be suspended and a new meeting will be held at 5 p.m. 18 for the continued examination of case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1796	It is an important matter that is addressed here – a life support plan. Do we give patients who have come into the final phase of life – patients and relatives, I would say – a good enough treatment? Is the capacity good enough, and do we have good enough knowledge? Finally, economics – do the financial instruments work well enough in this area? The Committee review shows that there is a broad consensus on the intentions of the proposals that have been addressed. However, the majority believe that this matter, which concerns so important parts of healthcare, should be dealt with in a broader context. One of these links is the link with the Interaction Reform. It is now under consideration by the Committee. This applies, inter alia, to: the development of sites within palliative treatment in municipalities and the responsibilities of municipalities in this area in the future, to be upgraded. The proposal points to the need for 600 new sites in municipalities. We fully agree with the intentions, but it is important to see this in a broader context, especially in the context of the Cooperation Reform. This is also part of the treatment of the national health plan, which comes into the wake of the Interaction Reform. I then imagine that we should not least look at the financing mechanism for the specialist health service, as mentioned in paragraph 3 of the proposal. The system of input-driven funding, to which the proposer points, does not capture this type of treatment. Now I just have to stress that in 2003 a system was introduced to have palliative treatment in the DRG treatment. But this example I believe shows that ISF is not working well enough, along with many other areas within treatment and diagnosis groups. That is why I believe that the funding mechanism needs to be looked at in particular. But also there it is important not only that you take one and a treatment form or one and a diagnostic group, but that when we go into the ISF system, we need to see it in a broader context. Therefore, I would just like to conclude briefly by saying that I fully agree with the intentions of the proposals that have been taken up – it is positive and nice that it is being addressed – but the proposals deserve a broader and more thorough treatment in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1807	The representatives of Davøy, Høybräten and Syversen have suggested that the Government prepare a life support plan. In times past, death, like most others, was a matter for the home and the family. Today, 80 pst dies. by the Nordics at the institution. There is now broad political agreement that more people must have the opportunity to die at home, possibly in a hospital, instead of in an expensive hospital further away. Today, almost half of the health budget is used during the last three months of our life, so it is also socio-economic to treat patients in the final phase of life in the community health service rather than in hospitals. Care at the end of life is not so much about specialised and advanced treatment, it's about professionalism, respect, human dignity, seeing and being seen, creating trust and security. In order to achieve this, the local health service needs to be strengthened both in terms of capacity and quality. The relatives who want it must be able to care for their loved ones in the final phase of life. Determiners must be included more in the follow-up of severely ill patients. Cooperation with the health and care services and the specialist services needs to be strengthened. Palliative teams can be a good complement, also to strengthen their skills. The Central Party agrees with the Christian People's Party that we need an increased bet on palliative treatment and care at the end of life. For the past 10–15 years, there has been a continuous effort to improve the health supply to the seriously ill and dying in Norway. National cancer plan, the Life Assistance Survey and several other public services have provided the basis for a step-by-step development of the palliative supply at all levels of the healthcare system. However, despite the efforts, the need for health care in the final phase of serious and fatal disease is increasing. Specializations will, after all, not be able to reach all of them. It is therefore important that palliative units and palliative teams should carry out the work of competence and provide for the transfer of competences to other departments and the environment. In particular, there is a need for a transfer of competences to those working with seriously ill and dying patients in the community health service. In the Norwegian Medical Association’s hearings, it is stated that unit price financing, as practised in hospitals today, is poor for severely ill patients. When input-driven financing is used as an income system at a departmental level, each department experiences the same economic compensation as the length of time it lasts. A financing mechanism that premises short rents is ethically very questionable. Patients with advanced disease may have periods of disease with very complex challenges that require long-term hospitalisation. The Central Party therefore looks forward to a review of the financing system by the Government and welcomes the proposal to move away from the ISF and to full funding of the palliative offer through the framework. The funding of palliative hospital beds, palliative teams and palliative services from the permanent staff also needs a review. I expect this to be assessed in the light of the interaction reform and the forthcoming initiative on the municipal health service. Nursing plan 2015 contains several measures to strengthen the provision of services to users of care services, including people in the final phase of life. In the Government's Competence and Recruitment Plan, the Competence Plan 2015, palliation is an important subject area. The government's new laws will make it easier to care for close relatives. I would like to show that a new ten-day leave for employees is introduced to provide the necessary care for parents and spouses/partners. It also extends the right to leave and care allowance in the care of close relatives in the final phase of life, from 20 to 60 days. Teaching homes and teaching homes are other measures to help improve the quality of care services, by focusing on research, professional development and higher levels of competence in the service. This will be important measures to ensure the palliative competence of the community health services in general and of hospitals in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1830	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a great deal of work on this matter. I think how we deal with dying people in our society, gives a measure of how we feel. Do we dare to be close to people who experience crisis and grief? Death has been institutionalized in many ways. Thus, as once was a natural part of life, it has been moved away, and many experience death as terrifying and alien. At the same time, we have a culture for curing everything. We want to treat ourselves out of sickness, pain and suffering. We've seen in recent years that these two tendencies together have led to a desire from someone for active death help. The best way to cope with this requirement is to bet on life support. At the heart of this concept lies the possibility of experiencing life as meaningful and valuable, despite limited lifetimes. Many experience being burdened when the body is unable to do what it was able to do before, and the mental state is weakened. Hopelessness can take over, and many may want help to end their lives. Life help is to listen to what is desired, but at the same time be close to the dying and instead of complying with the desired bet on as good treatment, care and care as possible. There's always something we can do, as the representative Sjøli said earlier today. Many people do not get the offer of life support that they should have received. Today, cancer patients are the primary recipients of this offer. We know that many older people die without this offer. In the years to come, we will also have a large increase in the number of older people. The same is true of children. In this context, I would like to refer in particular to the organisation YES to relievers and care for children, who have focused on the need for palliative treatment for children. I hope that the Council of State has also noticed the work that this new organisation is doing. We need to ensure more people offer relief and care. The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that there is a need for a plan for life support in the years to come. Such a plan should have four main pillars: improving the capacity for relieving treatment in hospitals to improve the capacity for relieving treatment in municipalities to convert today's offer of relieving treatment into outpatient care, especially given that this can be done at home with the dying empowerment of health professionals; Firstly, today there are too few beds in hospitals for relief. With simple grips, this number can be escalated in the coming years, through the use of earmarked means and concrete figures. By increasing the focus on designation, today’s response-driven funding system for relieving treatment may cease. Unit price financing has undesirable distortive effects, and it is particularly unfortunate and unworthy in the treatment of dying. Secondly, it is a desirable development that it is possible to die at home or near home. There is a need for 600 places for relief in municipalities. Again, this objective can be achieved with concrete targets for years to come. Third, if more people die at home, death will again be a greater part of life. By investing in outpatient teams, either under municipal control or in cooperation with hospitals, this may be possible. A lot of people would like that. Fourth, there is a need to increase the knowledge of relieving treatment for those who work in relief units and departments, but also for the whole healthcare system. Dying people face health professionals in many places in health care, and these should have more knowledge of treatment, care and care for the dying than they have today. I have listened strongly to the speeches that have been made, not least by representatives of the government parties. It is very good to hear that we are very much in agreement with most of the measures available. But I'm surprised that you can't go along with these proposals, when you say that you agree with what's available. I don't understand. Finally, I would like to promote the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1871	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1874	Meeting death in a secure environment is very important both for patients and for their relatives. As a result, the government has always been aware that there needs to be health services that provide them with this possibility. Proposals point to a number of good opportunities for further development and better provision of people in the final phase of life. I will follow up on the offer to this patient group, among others. through my work on the 2015 care plan and through the follow-up to the Interaction Reform. The supply and resource situation of care services is at the heart of the process of providing good relief in the final phase of life. In 2015, the government has chosen to invest in the development of the care sector as a whole. With the Competence Lift, we ensure that the sector has sufficient skilled labour – even when there is a need for relief and care at the end of life. At the same time, the investment grant for nursing homes and homes makes it possible to build day care facilities, including palliative units. The municipal health and care sector has been strengthened by around 12 500 annual works in the period 2004–08. This benefits all the user groups in the municipalities. Mostly, the increase in personnel has taken the form of skilled health and social workers, thus helping to increase the sector’s competence. The government has also received a separate investment grant, which provides the basis for 12,000 new health care facilities with lucky day care services in hospitals and nursing homes. We will follow the grant schemes closely and continuously evaluate the framework for the scheme and its phase-in. In the guidelines for the Husbanken grant scheme, we have made it clear that palliative units will also receive support. With that we will encourage the municipalities to expand and develop the palliative care where this is part of the ordinary municipal tasks. There is also a separate grant scheme for specific development measures, including measures to enhance the competence and capacity of relief and care for the end of life, outside hospitals. Several competence-enhancing measures have been implemented in municipalities. The regional resource and competence centres for palliation under the direction of health enterprises are also central. Patients receiving relief are often moving between hospitals and hospitals and/or at home. In order to make this transition more seamless, good cooperation between the multidisciplinary palliative teams in the specialist health services and the municipal health and care services is important. The interaction between these units, the teaching homes, the teaching homes and the municipalities is essential for good treatment and good treatment at the end of life. I am also concerned that the provision of relieving treatment should be further developed as part of the ordinary healthcare system. It is central to the Interaction Reform that more health care tasks are to be addressed locally. Several of those currently being treated in hospitals will be able to get a better offer in the municipality. With the reform, we will strengthen the community health service organisationally, competently and resourcefully – including for this patient group. Relieving treatment and care at the end of life as an integral part of overall municipal responsibility provides security and predictability for users and for relatives. In the vast majority of health business areas, networks of nurses with special competence in cancer care and relieving treatment are established. The Health Directorate has published a National Action Programme with guidelines for palliation in cancer care in 2007 as a follow-up to national cancer strategy 2006-2009. The guidelines have been developed for cancer patients, but general advice also applies to patients with other diagnoses. The guidelines apply both to specialist health services and to primary health services, and as I have also said earlier this year and answered questions, this applies, of course, to children. I have asked the Directorate to review these guidelines in the light of the present proposal and to assess the extent to which they are being developed. At the same time, a new national health and care plan and a new municipal health and care law will strengthen the interaction and provision of all users of municipal health and care services. On this basis, I do not wish to support a specific life support plan, as the measures outlined in the proposal are to be carried out by the ordinary municipal services and measures already taken. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1900	Then the measured speaking time is out. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1905	I waited anxiously for the Council of State to take up the call I made in my post to look at this with the funding mechanism that we are proposing in proposal No. 4, one more time, but she might never get that far in her script. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that today's regime of 40 p.m. input-driven financing and 60 pst. basic funding leads to the recovery of basic appropriations when the death penalty is withdrawn. Therefore, all parties believe that there is a need to look at these arrangements. In proposal No 4 We are also proposing to remove what is currently preventing specialist health services from cooperating well enough with the community health service. Is the Council of State saying that the proposal is not good enough, or what is the reason why the parties to the government cannot accept proposal No. Four?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1914	As was also stated in one of the submissions, there have been improvements in funding for the input-driven funding of this type of care. At the same time, the funding system is something we always review and assess and see if it can do better. With regard to the effort-driven financing in general, and then I'm talking on a general basis, there's no plan to wind it up, but we're always going to see if we can get more focused, so we can hit better. I would also like to stress that a large part of this funding goes to the specialist health service, which provides and will provide assistance to the municipalities, as far as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1919	The vast majority of those who have spoken here today have agreed that this area is not well maintained today – that it is important to do it better for the future. The Council of State refers to the Health Plan 2015 and its follow-up, as well as to the follow-up to the interaction message that we have for treatment in the Stortinge these days. In the context of the follow-up to the Health Plan 2015, today's government has also created some sort of, we shall call it, sub-plan for demente. That plan is very good. Why not also create a sub-plan, or life support plan, in the follow-up to the care notification and for that part the follow-up to the interaction message? Does the Council of State not consider it equally important that, as a follow-up in this area, where everyone believes it should really be made a power cap, one could also create a separate sub-plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1928	Let me first stress that I am very concerned that this part of the care service is going to happen in a good and dignified way. If I thought that making a plan was the way it was going, I would like to implement it. But then I want to emphasize what I said, and what I did not get to say, in my post. It is precisely that some national, professional guidance has been developed for treatment relief. These can be taken as the starting point. There are many good things in the proposal that are being discussed here now. That's why I want the Health Directorate to look at it and make better guides, which can apply both to adults and to children, which I also stressed earlier. This is an important offer, and it is important that everyone has a good framework for how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1934	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1939	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think this is an important theme, and there's been a lot of good input here today. We know that medicine is based on three main pillars: healing, relieving and comforting. These should actually be three equivalent pillars, but it seems sometimes they come in a little ranked order, where healing has the greatest focus, then relief comes, and consolation I think is almost forgotten. It's just this that's the whole approximation. There is also another thing in this case. Proposalers use the term ‘life support’. I see that the representative Davøy believes that this should be an alternative to death support. After the Sandsdalen case, while the High Commissioner was the Social Minister, the Roland Committee was mandated to fill this concept with content. Although the Workers' Party and the Right later gave the Bondevik I government something like the memory of death aid, they have chosen to use this term. The Progress Party has noted that there are several professionals, with the head of Professor Peter Hjort, who have stated that the concept of ‘life aid’ can be unlucky, incomprehensible and actually misleading in terms of treatment and care for incurable sick and dying. They refer to the English term ‘care of the diving’ – death care they present as the right concept. It can be difficult. I just lost my best friend. He was concerned that he was going to die. To come and say that the care that was given to him was life help, I have – and I think he had – some problems with understanding. Having said that, I think it is good to hear signals from the Council of State that we should continue to work on this matter. I think it would have been very nice if the Storting had adopted these points today. I did not get a satisfactory answer when it came to funding. It is precisely because the government parties have reduced input-driven funding to 40 p.m. that we get into the unfortunate situation that basic funding for every single day draws the rent out. That's what's behind it. When you point out that framework funding is the right funding model, I get even more scared. I myself have been the manager of a nursing home and have been responsible for serious illness and dying. I built my own palliative unit. We had framework funding. What we experienced was that we actually didn't even have the money to put in unskilled guards for people who were dying. I don't want to have that situation on a larger scale. I really hope you can look at a funding system that allows people to get a decent end of life, and that it is not the money or the levels of government that will prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1956	As these concepts were taken up, I would refer to the setting where the Christian People's Party among others. have written why we still want to use the term ‘life aid’, which is also what has been confirmed through the great and good NOU we got for some years back. I don't go into it anymore. With regard to the proposals themselves, I am somewhat concerned that none of the targets or measures will be addressed. I am pleased with what the Council of State says that she should at least assess it in relation to the guidelines that you already have. That's great. At the same time, we hear in today's Norway that both the Government and the Minister of Finance have called for major cuts. Today we read in the newspapers that the police have to cut posts. In the health care community, there are cuts in one area after another at the moment. In Child Protection, we see the same thing. My concern about some of the background may be that you do not know how to manage to get funds to give priority to this area as well. I see that the Council of State will have the floor again, and I can imagine having a confirmation that that will not happen, and that this is an important and priority area in the future. Then to the funding. What the Committee has also heard about its travels, and I, in particular, who have also been in several palliative departments around the hospitals, is that unit-price financing is very bad for a group of patients who may have an average hospital bedtime of several months, and some even up to two to three months if one looks at the posts in this type of department in relation to other departments. When you get a very low price, I am afraid that it may be a shut-down for the hospitals to establish more such beds because it becomes so expensive for them to drive. There is also some background to this proposal. I just wanted to say that, and hope that the Council of State can take it further. The funding we have today is certainly not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1967	I'm a little surprised that you're making this a discussion about funding. It is currently the case that palliative treatment is financed by both framework grants and activity-based grants. In 2003, the Bondevik government actually created a separate additional refund in the DRG system. This scheme replaced an earlier arrangement with the allocation of earmarked funds upon application. In 2006, in cooperation with the professional community, ISF legislation was clarified in view of the content of the treatment in order to be able to code so that additional refund was paid. So that's the reason, because there's a need. In connection with my contribution, I have also said that it is clear that you always go through the funding mechanisms to see if they are accurate enough. But I've never met any health professionals who would leave money in the way of doing their very best in the final phase of life, which is what we're talking about here. Actually, I still have that for good. There are some things you just do once. You only do this once. I have the confidence in the health service that this would be the very last thing you would cut. There is no current policy to cut this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1974	Laila Bavøy has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1977	It is possible that the Council of State misunderstood my previous post. Health professionals will always do what they can for this patient group. I think we are in complete agreement on that. My point was that if it's so expensive for the hospitals, and perhaps also for the municipalities, to run palliative departments, I'm afraid you don't have the driving force that should be there when it comes to putting down more bed places for dying people. That's what was my point. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have also previously proposed that we should receive both state operations and funding, i.e. incentives, which we have now received, so that the municipalities can also build up this offer in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e1984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1978]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2000	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2009	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined representatives' proposals from the local government representatives Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Ingjerd Schou and Bent Höie to amend the law on the specialist health service, etc. in order to allow institutions which provide interdisciplinary specialised treatment as a hospital and are thus covered by the right to free hospital choice. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, is behind the Committee's recommendation, which is that the matter should be annexed to the minutes. There is also one proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party and two proposals from the Progress Party. The Committee agrees – and this is very good – that all patient groups who need it are offered, if necessary, multi-disciplinary specialised follow-up. It is therefore necessary to facilitate a good and adequate offer to all patient groups in Norway, irrespective of the individual’s residence address and, in particular, the economy. It is the direction and means of achieving this that have contributed to the sharing of views within the Committee. As the rapporteur, I would also like to thank all the Members for an orderly and constructive process in the Committee on this matter. However, despite this, the Progress Party is not satisfied with the Committee's position. So I want to spend a little bit of time explaining just this. Today we are dealing with a matter that is full of technicalities, a matter that is characterised by different interpretations of law and law. But in this case, Stortinget should, in my opinion, raise his eyes and see what it really is about. It is about the fate of individuals in the Norwegian health system. As legislators, we must not create a system for the sake of the system. We have to create a system that is for the sake of individuals. Then we can't allow ourselves to dig into the fox's trenches and arguments. This is simply about how best to provide good health care to our citizens. Capio Anorexia Senter is an example of an institution and an offer that should definitely have been incorporated into a free hospital choice system. There are also a number of other examples. The arguments of the government parties in recent years are no longer relevant. The Council of State itself has said that it is possible to achieve this within today's legislation with the necessary extensions. There is therefore reason to ask whether there are other considerations that are the real reason why the government parties are voting against this proposal today. Could there be a red-green resistance to the use of private and non-profit actors? Yes, at least sometimes you can get the impression of that. I do not buy the argument from the left-hand side. Now let's see that there are offers in Norway, and that those offers need to benefit more, especially in the areas of drugs and psychiatry, but also in other forms of diagnosis. Capio is such an offer. It makes the impression when you meet someone who has finally received help after having been throwing ball for many years. Then you feel that what finally worked can no longer be chosen. That must be tough. The progress party will ensure that the individual people are put in the high-seat, not the systems. Public, non-profit or private — this cannot be the main challenge in health. It must, and should, be the individual patient’s need for different types of healthcare that determine which services are set up and funded. Capio Anorexi Center is an offer that must be able to be used regardless of the health region or municipality. I would encourage all members of the Storting to ignore previous legal arguments. I would ask that Members of the Stortinge aside ideological divisions. I would like to ask Stortinget to consider the following questions: How can we make sure that young girls and boys who suffer from eating disorders get the best possible help? If we all consider this issue in this Chamber before we vote today, the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party will have a majority. Politics is not about systems and party leaders. It's not about the number of queries in the media. It's not about games and speculation. It's about individuals. Therefore, this case should be adopted today. I would like to address the proposals I have referred to in this case. I also warn that the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2039	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2042	The working party agrees with the proposers that it is important and necessary to have good and varied offers in the specialist health service, and perhaps especially in the field of eating disorders mentioned by the rapporteur. It's very complex, it's complex. It is important to have offers that complement what we have in the traditional specialist healthcare service and that meet the quality requirements set there. The law defines what specialist health service is, and what kind of requirements are made to obtain hospital approval. We think that's right. A breach of the law and the relief of claims do not mean that we are going to get better offers. In the last period we considered a proposal that was almost identical, Document No. 8:91 in 2008-2009, which wanted Capio Anorexia Centres to be granted hospital status in order to be able to participate in free hospital selection. This time the proposal is even more extensive and will be able to deal with even more institutions. Interdisciplinaryity is important. In our opinion, it can also be done the way it is now. Healthcare undertakings shall ensure that patients' needs for follow-up and a good offer are met. They shall offer where they themselves do not have sufficient competence or offer. Therefore, there is no reason for Capio's offer to be used as a good supplement to those who need it. In its reply letter to the Committee, which unfortunately has not been attached to the vote, the Council of State has also not accepted amendments to the Special Health Service Act, and refers to the requirements of what hospitals should contain, and what the law says today. The Council of State also says that regional health businesses must always assess whether the offers they themselves have are good enough – whether they have good enough quality and whether their capacity is high enough. The question we can ask here today is, Do they? Should they consider using more varied offers to meet the different needs that exist? At least we believe that it should be good and varied offers, but we believe that it should be resolved primarily within the public health sector, with a good addition from the private sector. There are many good examples of this interaction. We're using a lot. What is important for the private providers is predictability, which we understand is missing today. We're still getting messages, both from Capio Anorexia Centers and others, that it's not easy to be a provider. It is not good to know if a get customers or future contracts. So offers that we need may be in danger of going down. The last time we had this case in Stortinget, I stressed here from the pulpit that the offer like, among other things. is on Capio, should be used where it is important for the individual patient, precisely because this is a disease group that needs diversity and different approaches. The response we then received from the State Council, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, was that there is no reason why the offer should not be used, but that health companies build up their own offers. That's why the private operators are used less. Now, when we get signals that the offers are not used because health companies cannot take tenders from other than non-profits, this must be due to a misunderstanding. At least that's not the message we've been given. When health companies say they have good enough offers themselves, I ask them, do they have it? How are we going to solve this for the benefit of patients? Who's right? I therefore refer to the Council of State's response, that there are no formal obstacles to regional health companies being able to solve their statutory services through the private service providers where they see that there is reason to do so. I urge the Council of State once again to look into whether this intention is being met and fulfilled, so that the good offers that are built up are not dropped because we are going to run according to the health companies' own rules. They themselves believe that they have good offers, but we are still getting feedback that the offers are not good enough. We propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. We will promise that we will follow, even if we don't want to change the law, to see what happens to the purchase of services from Capio and other offers for groups that need diversity and opportunities. But we still want a specialist health service law that regulates hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2065	Thanks to the case-rapporteur for a good job and a thorough presentation of his proposal for changes to the Special Health Service Act in order to allow the approval of institutions that provide interdisciplinary specialised treatment in hospitals and are therefore subject to free hospital choice. The starting point of the proposal is that patients with eating disorders do not receive adequate public health care assistance. There are long waiting lists for treatment in several places. Patients who require daily treatment for their eating disorders are seriously ill, and it is unsustainable that they have to wait for weeks and months for help. We have received several enquiries from the desperate people with eating disorders and their relatives. They tell us about serious health problems and inadequate follow-up from healthcare. Several have pointed out that they have received very good help from Capio Anorexia Senter, an offer many have had to pay for themselves. Although Capio has a professionally recognised offer with which patients are satisfied, many people feel that they are not allowed to use the offer for public account. Therefore, the right wants to amend the law to ensure that good interdisciplinary health institutions that meet professional requirements to be part of the specialist healthcare service can also be recognised as hospitals, although they do not have a clear somatic approach, are an offer to drug addicts or a district psychiatric centre. We believe that this will ensure a better offer adapted to the individual patient, in particular patient groups that today have a lack of offer. We believe it is unacceptable that bureaucratic barriers prevent patients from using an offer that can provide them with rapid help. The Soria Moria declaration and mission documents to regional health establishments indicate that the use of private commercial offers should be restricted. The justification seems to be a purely ideological defence of the public service monopoly. Now, when we register a certain attendance from the government parties in this matter, I believe it is clear evidence that this monopoly policy does not face reality. A policy where good private offerings are only available to those who have good advice is not in contact with individuals, especially when health cows and waiting times only increase. It leads to a classed health care system, which is not acceptable to the right. On the right, private services contribute to the quality and diversity of public health services. Many individuals have been pioneers in professional development and resource use. The private provision improves public health and also increases patients’ freedom of choice. We believe that patients from all over the country must avail themselves of the offer at Capio Anorexia Centers on behalf of the state by virtue of the right to free hospital choice. That is why we have promoted this legislative amendment. As with drug addicts, people with eating disorders will need a wide and diverse range of services. The request by the Minister of Health and Health for health businesses to use the available capacity of Capio has not been made. When Stortinget discussed a proposal to include Capio in free hospital elections last year, the government parties stated that this requires a change in law. The Minister of Health and Health now says that no legislative change is required to authorise Capio Anorexia Centres and other similar services as hospitals, so that they can be included in the right to free hospital choice. Therefore, there must be a political justification for refusing to accept the offer. In 2009, the Ministry of Health and Health approved the establishment of the hospital Norsk Toppheelsenter, which is operated by Norsk Toppfotball. The offer shall provide treatment to sportsmen with eating disorders. The right considers that patients with eating disorders but who are not top athletes must also have the opportunity to use private treatment institutions. Therefore, the right considers that the conditions for the approval of hospitals should allow for the approval of multi-disciplinary specialised health services that do not operate hospitals of a purely somatic nature. This, in our view, will contribute to a greater diversity of treatment provision, increased freedom of choice for patients and not least shorter waiting time. I take up the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party, which is promoted in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2086	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2089	It is the specialist services and, therefore, the regional health professionals, through their caring for responsibilities, who are currently responsible for the necessary health care, distribution and treatment of patients with eating problems. This is regulated by the law of the specialist services. In this respect, the proposers propose to amend the law on specialist services, to allow for the recognition of institutions providing multi-disciplinary specialised treatment. They argued that such a change in law would lead to inclusion in the free choice of hospitals. According to the proposers, patients from all health regions can benefit from multi-disciplinary specialised treatment, even if the supply exists only in some of the regions. The proposers claim that such a change would lead to better health provision in Norway. They also claim that the Government does not want to use the free capacity of private actors for ideological reasons. The centre party disagrees with the proposers in many of the leaders being set up, but we are some in that the offer given by Capio Anorexia Centers is a good addition to the public health service, and patients across the country can benefit from it. We think it's important that there should be a lack of supply that is given. Health care providers must then benefit from the existing services where they themselves do not have the corresponding services to provide. The specific treatment provision of regional healthcare providers is already part of the free choice of hospitals. With today’s legislation, there are no formal obstacles to regional healthcare providers’ well-management of their statutory tasks through agreements with private service providers, such as Capio Anorexia Centers. Regional health professionals must at any time assess whether the supply to people with eating disabilities is of sufficient quality and capacity, and evaluate the need to use private activities to increase capacity. So the center party cannot see that a change in the law is necessary if we are to get a better health care service in Norway, as the proposers write in the setting. Nor is it the case that a change in the law will automatically lead to inclusion in the free choice of hospitals, as suggested by the proposers. In all cases, it is an obligation for private institutions to have an agreement with a regional health agency to be included in the free choice of hospitals. In assessing whether hospital approval is to be granted, the Department may, inter alia: stress, as the Minister of Health and Health writes, social or professional concerns about the approval of the institution, whether the institution is covered by plans drawn up by the regional health agency, and whether the services to be provided appear to be defenceable. That's how we still think it should be. The intentions of the law must not be eroded by granting exemptions from and facilitating hospital requirements in order to be part of the free hospital choice. The centre party believes that we must accept that it is the regional health professionals today who have been given responsibility for the provision of specialist health services in their region, as well as the responsibility for the distribution and treatment of eating problems. In particular, the parties which were the driving force behind a regulation and a regionalisation of the specialist services must soon be ‘committed’ to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2104	As I understand it, the Health Directorate now has a review of the supply of anorexia patients. However, it is obvious, as many people have been here today, that there is a great need for more treatment sites when we know how long it is to get to treatment. There are almost 50,000 people aged 15–44 who are constantly suffering from eating disorders and are at high risk of other serious health problems. Anorexia is the condition with the highest mortality compared to other mental disorders. According to the Institute of Public Health, early diagnosis and treatment are very important. There are considerable differences in waiting times around the country. This also violates the principle of equivalent health care irrespective of place of residence. It is very regrettable that especially young girls, as this is often the case, have to wait many weeks and months for treatment. That is why the proposal we are considering today is very important. By allowing good interdisciplinary institutions to also be recognised as hospitals, and thus allowing institutions such as Capio Anorexia Centres to be included in the free choice of hospitals, these girls are more likely to receive help. The representative Mant talked about that it was not a wish to erode the law. I want to say that if that's what it takes for more people to get help now, why not change the law so that these girls, the boys and everyone who needs it, actually get the opportunity to choose the place they want to be at, and that we know gives a good treatment? The Council of State's letter says that there is no need to change the law to use Capio. No, it is possible, but what is necessary is that they must have an agreement with a regional health institution in order to be included in the free choice of hospitals. It is also stated in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee. But that's where the problem lies. There is no agreement that is long-term, predictable and that allows them – from all over the country – to make this choice. Unfortunately, I have to say that the government's handling of this matter is regrettable, and I also have to say that I feel strongly that it has an ideological angle since this concerns a private institution. But it's a good private institution, which has proved to be helpful. And as long as you can't show in public that you get in here – get help – but instead you have to stand for weeks and months and wait in place, you should at least use this in a completely different way from what you've been willing to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2121	The rapporteur was very concerned that this was about dealing with individuals. I fully agree with that. These are individuals, and for this very reason, in order to ensure a good health service for all, we need a strong public health service – where hospitals are essentially owned and operated by the public. This capacity must also be used. At the same time, the public must at all times assess whether the offer is of sufficient quality and capacity and use private activities and contract specialists where it is necessary to supplement the offer ad hoc or on a fixed basis. I do not see reason to implement a change in the law that will not lead to an appropriate change in the legal situation. I therefore agree with the majority's conclusion that the draft representative is annexed to the Minutes. The Specialist Health Service Act regulates the responsibilities of regional health establishments for the specialist health service. This includes the responsibility for the necessary health care for patients with eating disorders and the necessary health care for patients with drug abuse. This applies even if the term ‘other multidisciplinary specialised treatment’ is not mentioned in the law. Against this background, it is not necessary to amend the Section 2-1a of the Special Health Service Act, as these areas are already considered to be part of the specialist health service. It is the department that approves hospitals based in the specialist health service law § 4-1. The hospital approval requirement applies to both somatic and psychiatric hospitals. Hospitals are not defined by law, but the pre-worker of the law assumes that hospital services include medical examination and treatment activities that are organised to keep the patient overnight where this is desirable or necessary for medical reasons. When considering whether approval may be granted, the following shall be taken into account: whether social or professional reasons justify the institution's recognition of whether the institution is covered by plans drawn up by regional health undertakings concerning the services to be provided appears to be sound. A comprehensive discretionary and comprehensive assessment is required to determine whether the intentions of the law are being fulfilled. When, after today's legal situation, it is not considered appropriate to approve an establishment as a hospital, I see no reason to relax on these requirements in order to allow the establishment to become part of the free hospital choice system. In any case, it is not sufficient to be part of the specialist healthcare service in order to be eligible for the free choice of hospitals under the Patient Rights Act § 2-4. In order to be eligible for the scheme, private institutions must have contracts with a regional health undertaking. The proposal will therefore not mean any practical change for patients with eating disorders within the region and is not, in my view, suitable for achieving the intentions of the proposers. Regional health establishments are responsible for the investigation and treatment of these patient groups by the specialist healthcare service. The health care provided from the public hospitals and outpatient clinics and from private hospitals by agreement is already subject to free hospital choice. With regard to this patient group, it is important to stress that regional health companies have been informed to establish a health offer for this type of patient, and that has also been done in all regional health establishments. In any case, with current legislation, there are no formal obstacles to regional health businesses choosing to perform their statutory tasks through agreements with private service providers, such as: Capio Anorexia Senter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2154	The representative Sonja Mandt mentioned these proposals as a breach of laws and regulations and said that it was not the way to go. Yes, changing the law is actually not a hollow out, as I see it. It would have done the work in this room quite meaningless if we never wanted to change any law, if we wanted to achieve anything with politics. Now, when the Council of State says that we have good public health capacity, and that we have to exploit it, I think she has not understood the problem, namely that these patients have individual signs of illness, and that they do not get the offer in the public sector they want. When you say that this is not the way to go, and we meet all these great young people who come there and don't get that offer, and they feel like they're going to go down, they deserve an answer that gives hope. Then is my question to the Council of State: What answer does she have to these young people who give hope?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2161	I am concerned that this patient group, these young people, will get the help they need. But I am also concerned that public health services should provide this service. And as I said, if there's not enough capacity, regional health companies are free to buy services. But in this case, it is about making a change to the law to get an automatic right to free hospital choice. You don't do that without a change of laws. This change in law, which I also tried to say, will not in itself mean that Capio Anorexia Centers would be approved for free hospital choice. It would still require an agreement with one of the regional health companies. Then the health business and others could use it. But initially, if they don't have an agreement, they can't. Now this institution has an agreement with Health Southeast today and can also be used by others if they choose to buy places there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2170	I can promise that the Right will not give in to this matter until there is a solution, and wish the Administrative Party good luck defending the system to girls with eating disorders. In 2009, the Ministry of Health and Health approved a private hospital that treats people with eating disorders, namely the Norwegian Toppfotball Hospital. What is the reason why the Ministry of Health and Health approved the Norwegian Toppfotball Hospital, but not Capio Anorexia Centers as a hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2177	It is always an individual assessment when you go in and see if you should approve an institution as a hospital or not. Here is an individual assessment of Norsk Topphelsenter, who has an approval as a hospital. When that assessment was made by Capio Anorexia Center, it was not considered a hospital by the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2182	I have a question: does the Council of State think that there is enough capacity to treat young people with eating disorders in public health today? If there is enough capacity, which I realized the Council of State might mean, then the question is, why do you have to wait for weeks and months to make room? In fact, even some young people who also get rejected in the special departments, despite the fact that we have a public health institute that says that these should come early for treatment, otherwise it goes wrong for many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2187	It's clear that I'm busy with this patient group, and that they're going to get the help they need. I also assume that when Health South-East has chosen to enter into an agreement with Capio Anorexia Centers, it is because they have considered it necessary. There have also been very clear communications from the Ministry of Health and Health to regional health companies that this is such an important offer that it needs to be expanded across the country. This is also an offer offered by children’s and youth psychiatric centres throughout the country. I am concerned that there should be capacity. It is the healthcare companies, as we have established their activities, that are responsible for providing this patient group in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2194	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2199	Operation of a hip, a toe, or even a heart is something that can be partly standardised. It's largely dependent on the biological, and the personal conditions come into play as additional disorders for the doctors. When it comes to mental and psychiatric issues, it might be the opposite. Eating disorder is a disorder that we don't know exactly why it occurs. But we don't know what makes it go away either. It's still an area where we need a lot of new methods, more knowledge, other ways of working. It's an area where the government should have been looking for better offers, instead of being system defenses because the public is the right thing to do, that in any case it's better that the government builds up an offer than trying out an offer that has actually proved to be a good offer for those who need it over time. Yes, it is such a good offer that there are parents who have chosen to pledge their house so that their daughters will continue to go there, such a good offer that there are public outpatients who will not be able to hire psychologists to use all the money to pay for a setup at this institution, so others will not receive an offer of psychologists in that area. They know that if they had gone to the health business, the person would have been forced into forced feeding. It is relatively interesting to experience that the Council of State has a system approach, not a human approximation in these kinds of issues. I think you should think differently. I think one should say: this is an exciting, good action, and we should see whether this was a multidisciplinary method that gave a better offer. Actually, the state council should applaud instead of shutting down. Hearing a Council of State say that because that rule does not apply, and that rule does not apply, the proposers will not achieve their intentions with the proposal today – quite irrelevant indeed. The main problem for the proposers is that we probably cannot achieve this until we change governments, because this government has decided to be the defender of the system, not patients, in Norway. The government has decided that it will not try to look for new treatments for any of the most difficult to treat, namely psychiatric/psychological disorders that no one has responded to today. I would recommend the Council of State to start in a completely different way – to see herself as the ombudsman of the young girls, to feel that she has got the political trust she has, because she's going to help people, and that she actually has to find a solution to the matter instead of finding every reason not to do anything. So my appeal is that the Council of State decides that this matter should be resolved, because here we have a lot to learn. That's something the Council of State should say about from the pulpit, instead of finding out all sorts of excuses for why the system is more important than humans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2214	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2230	Today, the majority has a proposal to investigate the use of the medicinal product Naloxon nasal spray as part of the management of overdose deaths. The proposers suggest that Norway is in the world peak in the number of reported overdose deaths relative to the population. This is consistent with data from the 2008 Annual Report on the state of the drugs problem in Europe. There are different registration practices in the countries covered by the statistics and a recently published article in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal No. 21 in 2009 shows that overdose statistics in Norway include more than heroin-related deaths. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that overdose deaths are too high and that all good measures should be taken to reduce them. The acute treatment of heroin and similar substances overdoses is the fastest possible injection of the medicinal product Naloxone. This is an antidote, and Naloxone is authorised in Norway for use in blood or muscle injections. It has long been a possible strategy that the antidote should be available in or near the user environment to reduce the risk of overdose deaths. There has been some resistance to putting this into use, both for practical reasons and because of the risk of transmission at times. A nasal spray has therefore been developed, and by this form of administration, the antidote is absorbed into the blood and brought into cells in the brain to counteract the effect of heroin overdose. According to the Health Directorate, small studies have been conducted comparing the use of nasal spray with injection, but safe conclusions are not yet available. It is hoped that simple use of a nasal spray may be an alternative to current treatment with injecting. The next step must be to show that the measure is effective in reducing overdose deaths. Each overdose death is one too many. Therefore, new proposals shall be carefully considered and followed up and, as indicated in the letter of 18 December 2009 to the Health and Welfare Committee, the Council will ask the Health Directorate to consider whether attempts to use Naloxon nasal spray should be initiated to prevent overdose deaths. The acute treatment of overdoses is one of many elements of a worthy care for drug users. I welcome the fact that this proposal receives a thorough medical-professional assessment and looks forward to learning about the results. The Committee recommends that the draft representative be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2245	A few years ago, when I was a municipal politician, I received a letter from a mother. She could tell that she had a son early in the 20s who lived in one of our nursing homes. He was 100 pst. - It's a pain in the ass. He had to be fed and dressed, and he didn't have language. I reacted to him living in a nursing home. I didn't think we had young people living with very old and very sick people, so I asked to say hello to this boy. I had to be there with my mother because she was the only one who had some communication with him. He had come into this situation after an overdose of heroin. I have been in contact with this boy for all the years that followed and followed up on what kind of life he has. It's pretty strong to think that if this nasal spray could really make a difference and it had been found that time, eyewind today would have had a life like other youths. Two weeks ago, there was another funeral where one of those I went to school with was buried after an overdose of heroin. Maybe this nasal spray could have made a difference for him too. I know very little about the nasal spray, but the little thing I've figured out is enough for me to think that we have to check this out. We have to figure this out. Is that an opportunity? We have therefore put forward a proposal which is very harmless and very round, and I believe, to be sure that it would be adopted, to 'examine the possibility of a trial project'. It can't be less dangerous. Now, however, the Council of State says that she wants to ask the Health Directorate to assess this, but at the same time the proposal is voted down. I have received some enquiries from some organisations that are very concerned about this proposal. They're asking what's going to happen today, because they've seen the setting. I can't really give them an answer. I told them they had to ask the government parties about it. I've said to those who ask, the government parties say they're in favour, but they vote against, and I don't know exactly what that means. I had hoped that the President-in-Office had explained that to me. I would like to take up the proposal on the matter and ask that it be voted on first, so that the Progress Party can vote in a subsidiary way with the majority's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2260	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2263	I think there is every reason to commend the representative, Mr Kjos, for bringing up the theme. It's an important topic. I am pleased that the committee says that this should be properly and properly assessed. Then I read a little in the setting about diet and benefits. It's clear that in the time we're going into this, where we're going to try to reduce money consumption to keep our industrial workplaces, we all have to ask questions about the money we spend is spent in the best possible way. Unfortunately, the theme that concerns people who are struggling with drug problems is still very marked by the fact that it is a moral point of view. Without adding up to any major debate – I expect that I am a rather lonely swallow here in the hall in terms of the way I think, so far at least – I would encourage the representatives to dare to think again about the whole topic. It's not a problem to see all the faults and shortcomings of drug care, but it's not safe that we spend little resources together to face these social problems. Then the question becomes to me: do we meet these people and the social problems that many people live with, in the right way – also in relation to resource use? I have mentioned earlier the decriminalisation of the use and possession of drugs. For my part, it has not been a clear signal that as many young people as possible are going to experiment with illicit drugs, but it is primarily about how we meet people in our society. I think we should come to a point where we can recognise that with all the overdose deaths we have, with the drug use in our society, is it so that we have chosen a proper strategy to invite these people into our community? Then I've allowed myself to think out loud, because I think we have an exclusion policy that is a highly well-meaning moralism. But the question is, does it help the people and the families who live with this every day? Today, we are using huge police resources to meet some of the weakest people in our society, or who we choose to say are weak, but who have considerable human resources in them. I think we should venture to think again about these difficult questions, because there are too many people waiting for a hand from the rest of society to be invited in. I think we should be careful to look at the experiences of other countries, because we should be able to agree on the goal that everyone should be able to live a good life with the starting point that you meet people where you are in life. So I want to encourage the audience and the representatives: can we allow ourselves to put old dogmas aside, dare to think new and see that this is about people and not about principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2278	I get a little tired and also a little upset at the same time. I am not going to go into the legalisation debate with the representative forsberg. I am concerned about how this matter is handled in Stortinget. What we are witnessing is simply a political game. When the majority chooses to attach the matter to the protocol, we have a long experience in this house because that happens little afterwards. What's the reason for that? Is that the fear of giving the opposition a political victory? When the proposal for the Progress Party is voted down here today, do we risk the majority saying afterwards that no, the proposals of the Progress Party are down, so that the Storting will not start a trial project? And then it's the Progress Party that gets blamed for it. So what's going to happen next? Are you afraid of losing voices? I think most people are talking about here, have more than enough time to get through everyday life and have big problems getting to the polls. So that can't be what's really important here. As long as we're at the top of the world in terms of overdose deaths, we need to focus on the individual. I mean, if we can save a single human life with this spray, it must be worth it. That's why I would strongly urge everyone here in the Chamber to vote for what you're in favour of, and you'd rather vote against what you're against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2289	Like the representatives of Kjønaas Kjos, Olsen and Gåsvatn, I am also concerned about reducing the high rates of overdose deaths in Norway. Fortunately, the number has been significantly reduced, but there are still too many. Nothing would be better than saving someone from an overdose death with a nasal spray, because the number of people who die is still too high. We fully agree on that. So that's how this work is already going on. This work I have started. I explained in my reply to today's proposal for a representative on 18 December 2009 that I have commissioned the Directorate of Health to assess whether attempts should be made with Naloxon nasal spray to prevent overdose deaths. But I assume that the Storting also agrees that this must be a medical-professional assessment. That work is in progress, and the Health Directorate has said that by mid-March – of this month – there will be an answer. Then I will come back to Stortinget and orientate the Storing appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2298	First, an explanation of vote by the Right: when we now vote to attach the matter to the Minutes and to the proposal by the Progress Party, it is not because we disagree with the content of the proposal by the Progress Party, but because we believe that the proposal has already been initiated by an exceptionally clear and, in this context, positive response from the Council of State. We expect that when she responds so clearly to the Storting, that means that it will be followed up. With regard to the contribution from the representative, Mr Forsberg, I fully agree that the policy pursued today is an exclusion policy by the fact that people who are motivated to be drug-free do not receive treatment. No later than today, new waiting list statistics were provided, which show that the area where waiting time increases most is in the area of drug addicts. I believe that the government parties should first concentrate on using all their efforts – not least the representatives of the government parties – against the Government to make the government give priority to what we know actually works in this area – namely to provide motivated drug addicts with an offer of treatment for drug-freedom. The day Stortinget finds that we provide all those drug addicts who are motivated to get treatment to become drug free, treatment at the time they are motivated, and if we then see major problems and challenges in this area, it is time to start discussing new tools that are experimental. But within today's system, I would rather urge the representative, Mr Forsberg, to join the Right in the struggle for a national escalating plan in this area in the areas that we know actually work and that give a dignified life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2307	In medicine, which may also be in life, we are often the most competent and knowledgeable of the technical things. I also feel that way about the matter that we are discussing today. We have a good knowledge and a good overview of the chemistry. We know what is the antidote to heroin overdoses, but we have much, much less knowledge of the natural — why it does so — and we have little knowledge of what all these drugs do to our inner. There's a lot of things we're not good at. There are a lot of things we don't understand in this field. That is why, as politicians, we are professionals, and that is why the big community is on the defensive in relation to these problems. When things are so difficult, we need hope. When I first got to see this proposal, I felt that here it was something that gave hope, because the nasal spray is so amazingly simple, because it can all use, and it has all the experience with it. Getting a hope that we can get an instrument that will reduce the number of deaths, we're going to have, and we're going to take that with us. Some hope we have lonely and alone in our lives. Some hope we get the opportunity to share with many. To share a hope in something broader and bigger than this I don't think. At the same time, putting this hope into a practical everyday life, so that it goes from hope to reality, requires knowledge. It might require a trial project. But this knowledge must be acquired by the same requirements for scientific studies that apply elsewhere. That is why – without making any political polemics around this – I am very pleased that the work is already in progress. Then I have hope, and then I think there are many out there who have hope. So I hope – all party policies added to it – that the studies to be done just show that this will help, and that it will be one of many instruments. It's not going to be able to do the job alone, but it can be one of many tools. Then a good intention has been achieved, and then the proposers can look back on this day with great honor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2318	Yes, I hope that one day we can look back on this day as an honorable day, and we will be satisfied – not because the Progress Party may have won, but because there are many out there who get help. I'm, as probably someone in the media claims, a simple soul that progressing party people most. I come from municipal administration, and I must admit that as a whole new on the Grand Duchy, I am amazed at this debate where you cannot vote for what you are in favour of and against what you are against. I'm used to operating practical policies, and when I hear good suggestions from other parties, I think that's what I'm going to vote for, and sometimes I hear bad suggestions, and then I say that I'm going to be against it. In the previous session, the Progress Party promoted 50 anti-drugs proposals and all the problems that this entails. We reaped many praises in this hall, but no parties wanted to vote for any of those proposals. And so now it's up to us to make a new plan instead of taking a stand on the proposals we have received. And: Yes, I agree with the representative, Höie, who says that we have received a good and clear response from the Council of State. That is why I am surprised: when the Council of State is so clear, why can't you vote for it? Can the Council of State, or anyone else, explain why? It may be just me and the Progress Party that don't understand it, but we actually get a lot of requests from individuals and from organisations that are busy with this, and that don't understand this game. Can you not then cut through and simply feel it so that if you are in favour of the proposal – that is a good proposal, and I feel that this room shares that view – you should vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2327	I am very sure that the Minister of Health will take this question seriously. I talked to a couple of user organisations that are going to the Health Directorate tomorrow to be heard about their views on it, so I'm sure this is going well. I have to say that it is a step forward in debates in this Chamber so far not to be called totally irresponsible, as has been done in the past when the proposal for decriminalisation has been raised. Because there are quick misunderstandings, and some people also want to misinterpret me in the sense that I am talking about legalization, but I have not actually used that word. I have called for decriminalization. In fact, when you talk about ‘50 anti-drug proposals’, I think that most drug users feel that they have a policy against them. That's at least how it feels on the outside of society. I could probably not have thought of moving towards the Right, although I fully agree that there is a need for a massive upgrading of the care, but not only with the aim of becoming free from sleep. I also think we have to admit that it's actually not all people who are going to be drug free, even though it's hard to accept. We need an offer for absolutely all people who are struggling with drug problems, but above all, my proposal is to lower the threshold to ask for help. For one thing, 4,500 people are waiting for treatment, but think of all the other people out there who are not looking for treatment. What is it that stops people from asking for help? Could it be the shame that lies around this theme – that you get outnumbered, stigmatized? I think we have a lot to do to invite people in, but then we can't do it by criminalizing people who are struggling with a disease. Per-Kristian Foss had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1979]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2357	Psychiatric disorders are a people's disease. Several international studies show that about 50 pst. have a mental illness during life, and 20-30 pst. has had such a disorder in the last year. Most of us will experience mental problems in some form of life. The World Health Organisation assumes that the overall burden of disability and premature death due to depression will increase, and in 2020 mental disorders will be the main cause of disease stress in Western countries. When the Stortinge dealt with the public health report in 1997, the diagnosis had failed at all stages. The Roadmap for Mental Health was launched in 1998 and ended in 2008. The plan was clear on direction and quantitative targets. There was to be a better and more decentralised provision, and outpatient services in the patient’s community were to replace institutional care. The evaluation report of the Norwegian Research Council shows that the quantitative targets of the escalation plan have been far-reaching. Some examples illustrate this: There are more than twice as many outpatient treatments as at the time of initiation of the escalation plan. It is built 75 new district psychiatric centers, which have given many patients an offer where they live. There are about 3,400 more well-organized housing for the mentally ill in the municipalities. Although many of the quantitative objectives of the escalation plan have been achieved, we do not aim to provide a good and equivalent treatment provision to the mentally ill, for example.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t There are still too long waiting times and too many patient rights violations. There is too much pressure on the daily treatment offer because there is a lack of good locally available information. There is a lack of coherence and overallity in services, which affects all patients, but psychologically ill suffers particularly hard. The user involvement and the related perspective need to be addressed better. And not least, there has to be help that actually helps. This interpellation is about the latest challenge, namely that mental illness should be assisted. After making great efforts to strengthen the quantity of mental health protection, we now need to work more to improve quality. An illustrative example of not always helping is from the offer to patients with coercive disorders. On November 4, 2009, TV 2 showed the documentary “Psych transformation!” The programme showed that effective treatment is available for patients suffering from coercive disorders but that few patients are offered this. Forced illness is estimated to be the fourth most common mental disorder and affects more than 50,000 Nordics at any time. This is a debilitating disorder that takes a lot of time, and leads to the patient having major problems in everyday life and at work. Many are dissatisfactioned because of suffering, and it usually imposes a heavy burden on relatives as well. Since the 1970s, it has been known that so-called exposure therapy with response prevention is an effective treatment method for the disorder. Through a dozen studies, it has been demonstrated that the method is cost-effective and provides a significant improvement in 60-70 pst. by the patients. The approach is recommended in the Health Supervision Guidelines for Treatment and the district psychiatric centres are asked to have competence in this area. Despite this, there are very many patients who are not given this treatment. In the light of that documentary, I asked what the Council of State would do to ensure that all patients are offered the treatment in question if they have this disorder. The Council of State then took a price-effective initiative to keep a course in this treatment for health businesses. I am aware that the Norwegian Association for Cognitive Therapy is about to implement a better treatment plan for patients with coercive disorders, and will commend professionals in this environment for addressing the matter and thus providing for an improvement in the offer to patients. But this case raises issues that apply to mental health protection in general. How can we ensure that professionals and treatment institutions have sufficient expertise to provide good treatment? What do we do to make sure that the treatment of mentally ill people is based on knowledge-based methods, and not the method that the caregiver at all times seems to be best applied to all disorders, or generally to a wide range of patient groups? A key factor in ensuring good quality in treatment provision is knowledge of treatment and what are effective methods. On the right, we believe that there is too little emphasis on quality work in health enterprises, and we have therefore proposed a new quality strategy for health enterprises. We believe that several clinical guides need to be developed to ensure that knowledge-based and effective methods are used. While it is clearly necessary to exercise clinical judgement, it should not be left to the discretion of the individual handler whether or not knowledge-based practice is used. It must not be that when a patient enters a psychiatric office, one can see who the psychiatrist has a picture on the wall, which treatment method one achieves. I want to challenge the Minister of Health and Care both to develop more treatment guides and to ensure that health businesses actually follow these guidelines. Mild recommendations are not enough. From a political point of view, we must make at least as strict demands on quality as we make for financial management. In order to succeed in quality work, we also need to make better measurements of the quality of mental health protection. Several indicators have been developed in mental health protection, including: for the extent of cleaning, the use of coercion and the number of corridor Asians. We also have several user studies that show that many patients are satisfied with the offer. But we also need good measurements of the outcome of the treatment. We need to know that help helps. The right considers that the development of a decentralised supply to mentally ill people has been correct and necessary. We have to give more mentally ill help where they live, so that they can master life as best they can in their community. Better accessibility is essential for better help for mentally ill people. A key challenge is to ensure better coherence in the supply of sick people. The cooperation reform, which is now under consideration in the Committee, will contribute to improvements in supply in this way. At the same time, the decentralised structure of district psychiatric centres and outpatient teams implies that one must have quite a broad range of competences. Psychiatric disease is complex, and a high level of treatment is required for the caregiver to provide a specialised offer of investigation and treatment to all patients in their application area. The DPSs and the BUPs are at the core. In particular, specialised treatment provision for smaller patient groups is involved. This can help to strengthen professional development and improve the quality of treatment provision. Such developments may thus strengthen the possibilities for patients to receive help as helpers. I would challenge the Council of State to respond to whether we can find a better balance between availability and decentralisation on the one hand and the need for quality and specialisation on the other. The Mental Health Council has produced a report on the quality of mental health protection with seven main elements necessary to ensure good quality in the supply of mental illness. One of these is that the training of professionals must follow a better development. The Council points out that continuing training in mental health work and the specialisation of psychologists and psychiatrists are not adapted to current services and user intervention requirements. Today's service structure requires, as I said, broad competence, which can impose enormous demands on professionals. Psychologists can hardly be expected to provide good exposure therapy to patients with coercive disorders after a four-hour training course. I would encourage the Council of State to review training provision in the sector together with its colleague in the Ministry of Research, in order to improve and update education provision. On behalf of the then Social and Health Directorate, an analysis of the need for mental health protection competence was prepared, which was published in the spring of 2006. The analysis concludes that nearly 500 psychiatrists and a significant number of psychologist specialists are lacking at the district psychiatric centres. National audit survey 2007 showed that treatment provision for children and young people with mental health disorders is not equivalent. There are large differences in capacity and share of specialists between outpatient clinics and between health businesses. It is clear that many other educational groups can offer a very good supply to mentally ill people, and it is not desirable for any professional monopoly in any part of the health sector. However, we need to ensure that there is sufficient professional competence both in the district medical centres and in outpatient clinics for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2428	There is an important interpellation that travels here, and there is also, as the interpellant had in mind, a large amount of money that the Stortinget has allocated to the Pedagogical Health Plan, which has resulted in a large increase in the quantity of both the DPS – the district psychiatric centres – and in the case of professionals. What you have to work on now is to develop the quality – I fully agree with that. The overall objective of the escalation plan was to facilitate people with mental illness to live as normal a life as possible in their neighbourhood and in their own home. This also applies to seriously ill people, who during periods need extensive assistance from the municipal and specialist health services. Key elements are user participation and local services with emphasis on municipal interventions and a decentralised specialist health service. Following the rapprochement plan, the Government has continued this value base in the State budgets for 2009 and 2010. My impression is that all levels of the service have captured these signals. At the same time, we need to recognise that it takes a long time to reverse attitudes from emphasising disease and hospital treatment to developing clear content in concepts such as user involvement, user involvement and mastering one's own life. Here we still have some way to go. I am aware that professional practice may vary between treatment providers and treatment sites, and that it may take time before knowledge-based methods are used. I'm not satisfied that it takes so long to introduce new knowledge. However, according to the Health Directorate, there is no basis for saying that there is generally a wide range of professional disagreement about treatment. Regional health establishments shall ensure that the public is provided with high-quality specialist health services. The contract documents state that quality improvement shall be a continuous process anchored in management at all levels. Furthermore, regional health enterprises are responsible for the implementation of national guidelines and guides. Work on national guidelines and professional guidance for mental health services is a high priority in the Health Directorate, as requested by the inter-pellant. Over the course of a few years, several guides have been published, including: guidance for mental health work in municipalities, for district psychiatric centres, for cooperation with relatives, and, in particular, for priority mental health care guides – both for adults and for children and young people. Furthermore, national guidelines have been published or under work in a number of fields of psychiatric treatment. The supervisors recommend the maximum duration of a patient with a given diagnosis waiting for treatment and the type of treatment that should be implemented. Municipalities, regional health enterprises and the Health Directorate cooperate on the introduction of guidance and guidance services. Psychiatric health protection has been strengthened and modernised in the last ten years. We have developed a decentralised mental health system with a total of 75 district psychiatric centres covering all the municipalities of the country. The objective is to provide high-quality and coherent services. Mental health protection with emphasis on decentralised services is in line with developments in other Western countries and with recommendations from the World Health Organisation. The situation at the DPS was reviewed in 2008. On this basis, regional health firms have been given the task of strengthening the transition from institutional treatment to more out-of-court and out-patient services. Furthermore, they shall upgrade the DPSs professionally and manned. The role of hospitals shall be clarified in order to provide access to mental health protection functions. It is important to dimension the distribution of resources between the DPS and the hospital departments in order to adapt the supply to the needs of the population. On the issue of the structure of mental health protection, I would like to stress that the needs of the population are to be taken into account. Education must ensure that education is adapted to the model of local services. This means that the user perspective, mastery, interaction and interdisciplinary approach must be integrated into education. The DPS will be the core experience and knowledge base. The basis for specialist knowledge in psychiatry, psychology and mental health work is laid in specialist training, in continuing and continuing training and through clinical practice. This means that we need to make demands on universities, colleges and other educational institutions, but also on the service as a clinical knowledge base for education. There are strict requirements for practice to become a specialist in psychology or psychiatry, and these requirements cannot be waived. I feel confident that a well-developed network of good DPSs, combined with good hospital services, will be the best basis for future knowledge development. The DPSs are large enough to provide both generalist competence in mental health protection and special skills in areas such as psychosis teams, double diagnosis teams, emergency teams, etc. Health regions need to consider whether it is appropriate to allocate the tasks between the DPSs in the region in order to have an offer for patients with less frequent disorders. Hospitals will provide the clinical knowledge base in their fields. We're still in a construction phase to get full-value DPSs across the country. It is a challenge for clinical provision and competence, but it does not provide a basis for reconsidering the intentions of changing the structure of mental health services. We still need to press on the switch to mental health protection. I would like to stress that there has been a substantial increase in the competence of mental health protection in the escalation plan and afterwards. A number of competence functions have been established, a large number of staff have undergone further training in multidisciplinary mental health work and, in particular, recruitment to the field has been significantly improved. This applies to specialists in psychology and psychiatry as well as university-trained personnel. The Health Directorate has been commissioned to undergo specialist medical training in order to assess the need to change the structure and content. They shall also review the provision of continuing training by private institutions and associations receiving government grants. The questions raised by the representative, Mr Höie, deserve definite attention for a long time in the future. My assessment is that we are on the right track with the political decisions that have been taken and the actions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2460	I want to join up to what the Council of State said in conclusion. I am also convinced that the course as a lay in the ramp is a correct course. What I'm a little more uncertain about is whether the shooting is fast enough – if you don't also have the opportunity to give a new content along the way, as one sees that the challenges may be a little different than that for a few years back in time. It is also the case that, in the somatic health field, establishing standard procedures, and not least recording the treatment given — get much more information on which treatment has been given, and results — makes accumulating knowledge, which in turn improves treatment methods. I think there is a need to focus on this even within psychiatry, not only to record that a person is receiving treatment, but also to record which treatment is being given, to record the results and to get common criteria for measuring the results of treatment. Only in this way can we continuously improve the supply of patients, have a professional development, and also in the next round improve the recommended treatment methods given in an area. This presents a challenge that we have also seen in somatic settings, which may have occurred earlier in somatic settings than in psychiatry, namely that there is a combination of decentralisation of services, because more services can be resolved locally, decentralised and, at the same time, a centralisation, linked to the fact that there are also some treatment methods that can only be given centrally. Not least, the number of treatments is so extensive that you cannot expect a psychiatrist to be a psychiatrist regardless of the patient’s suffering. For example, it should be possible to have an overview of the contract specialists that you have within the psychiatric community, as well as psychologists, and in what areas they have developed in depth, so that you know that if you are referred to a psychiatrist with a contract, you will be able to provide an adequate treatment for the suffering that you suffer. It might be to have too much expectations for our professionals that anyone with the title of psychiatrists should be able to master all treatments for all patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2469	I can share the concern about whether the changes are taking place quickly enough, or as quickly as we wish. But what I want to underline, and as you can also see from the figures – what has been done over the ten years of the escalation plan – is that a very good network has been set up for both the treatment and skills building that needs to be done centrally, as well as the district psychiatric centres and the outpatient teams, which can go out and run out on outreach treatment at home or at work if needed. One thing that I'm very concerned about, and that interpellant was also involved in his first post, is this with standard procedures. I believe that is important, not only in the field of mental health protection, but also in all areas of the entire specialist healthcare service. It is important in this way to provide information to experts throughout the country and also to ensure that there is a quality assurance of treatment provided. This quality was also taken up, especially in the first post, and I agree with that, but there is a lot of quality in that the quantity has increased so much. Of course, this is true of treated patients. In children’s and youth psychiatry alone, 20 600 children were treated in 1998 and 53 000 in 2008. This shows that the need has increased, but it also shows that many more have been reached. And here, at least, the waiting times have also gone down. It's good, and it's happy. So it's also the way you've been dealing with it, that you don't make things the same everywhere. And then I want to draw a very good example. The use of coercion has been a major focus in recent years. The Iron District Psychiatric Centres have user-controlled beds where there is much more up to the users even when they feel the need to get in or get assistance and help. It has reduced the use of coercion. It is clear that these are methods that must also be brought into the whole country, so we should be good at using the good examples – and passing them on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2480	It's an important topic that clearly deserves our attention, the interpellant here addresses. As the interpellant himself says, the psychiatry escalation plan has been successful for ten years to the extent that today more than ever receive treatment. So now the focus area in the future is going to be to get even better quality, and of course we're going to go for that. That is why I am pleased that the Minister in his reply says that work with national guidelines and professional guides for mental health services is a high priority in the Health Directorate. Guidelines and professional guides help to improve the quality of psychiatry and provide patients with the treatment they require. In the case of patients with coercive disorders, I agree with the interpellant that more should be offered exposure therapy. That is why I am pleased that we were told at a meeting with the representative organisation and professionals that this was a documented treatment method that professionals in several parts of the country could be taught to use. Exposure therapy is a method of treatment, largely without medication, which can often be carried out without the patient’s insertion. Of course, we cannot accept that if we have a method that has proven its effect, there are professionals who do not use it. Maybe there should be something the Council of State could look at. All patients are different and it requires an individual to receive a treatment that is tailored to their needs. It is also important that we continue to have a strong focus on the need for patients to receive treatment as far as possible near home. That is why it is good that we now have district psychiatric centers that cover all the municipalities of the country. Together with the community’s health service, outpatient teams are being developed to conduct outreach activities. This allows many to receive treatment at home and to avoid spending a lot of time on going to treatment sites, and may be able to adapt to treatment in their community. Many people do a good job in psychiatry, both in the municipality and in the specialist health service. The fact that we do not always get the interaction between the municipality and the specialist health service is one of the reasons why the cooperation reform looked at the light of day. The importance of the good functioning of the interaction between primary health services and specialist health services is crucial for the quality of the provision given to patients. Many have come a long way in good interaction, including: in Eastfold, where the Hospital Østfold has established outpatient, emergency teams, which contribute to better and more holistic services in the field of mental health protection. I look forward to a broad consensus in the Stortinget on the cooperation reform, which will help to strengthen the provision of these patients outside the municipality and contribute to a more holistic treatment cycle – across the levels of the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2499	Having hurt in the back, in a knee or in an arm may be tiring for someone each. But you know what you can do with it. In the determination, the cause can be defined and actions implemented. But if you suddenly experience a paralytic anxiety or a heavy depression, it's not as easy to get help. In a report from the Institute of Public Health, Psychiatric Disorders in Norway: A public health perspective, we find that about a quarter of the population will suffer from an anxiety disorder during life, and that depression will affect one in five. In addition, we have drug-related disorders, personality disorders, eating disorders and schizophrenia. The key to good mental health protection is to get in early with help. It's a repetition of individuals who make contact and what I read in different articles – the fact that people don't fully understand or find out where they can get help when the problems start. Then they discover that when they have finally found out about this, they are standing in some queue. Throughout, I hear that you had to wait too long, and that the disease and the plague became deeper and more serious during this time. A few years ago, I was visiting a health centre in my municipality. The health sister, with more than 20 years of experience, could tell that she now experienced children all the way down to 1st grade who were having mental problems, and that this was something that had happened in the last few years. Psychiatric problems at an early age — if not seen and done with them — could lead to drug problems, eating disorders, self-harm, or develop into serious mental disorders. People who struggle with this often feel that they are not being helped by what caused them to rush, hurt or starve. The roadmap for mental health was successful in many ways. Much was achieved, but we did not reach a goal. That's why it scares me when we're still getting messages about cutting in the offer to mentally ill people. In Ashkoy Municipality, they aim to provide help when needed. According to the local authority, the offer has worked as intended. Parents, children and partners make contact at an earlier time when availability is good and the threshold is low. This will enable them to identify a problem and to take early action. The majority believe that the demand for psychological services is high — and increasing. Persons with serious coercive disorders, to which the interpellant refers, are a group that has been ignored for years. Some of these had enjoyed meeting with the Health and Welfare Committee following a TV2 exposure therapy programme. They had incredibly strong stories to tell. Year after year with ruined lives, both for the one standing in the middle of it and for his loved one. The knowledge was there, but the offer was so to speak absent. This is simply unacceptable, and I hope the Council of State also got this program. All in all, there is reason to draw the conclusion that we have a long way to go, including within the psychiatry. We know that lowthreshold services are important and can prevent more serious illness, but not everyone has access to this. We know that the waiting time for treatment is very long in many cases, and that this is therefore an offer for those who can buy themselves out of the queue. Long waiting periods increase the risk of disease escalation and may result in increased use of coercion. We know that the use of coercion is used differently around our country, and that coercion is perceived to be offensive and frightening and helps to weaken confidence in treatment services. And we know that it's bad and difficult to live with mental disorders both for those who are affected and for all those who are close to them. We know that the learners are fighting, and that the wrong offer has approximated zero value. We have to stop making an offer just to check that the offer has been made. This is exhausting for the person involved, and is a very poor use of resources. And we know that someone almost through a lifetime goes out and out of treatment -- some because you get late, some because it wasn't given the right treatment, and some because they were written out too early. Too many of these simply don't work anymore and end their lives. We can use a lot of nice words in this room, but everyday outside these walls are bone-tips for someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2531	Although we have implemented a 10-year mental health escalation plan, it is important that we do not settle down, but continue our efforts in this important area. As the Council of State had in mind, 75 new district psychiatric centres have been built, and it is essential that good services are provided to the mentally ill in the DPS. Surveillance reports show that there are significant challenges in ensuring good quality of this offer. As the interpellant pointed out, in 2008, the State Health Authority carried out a two-year supervision of specialist health services in the district psychiatric centres. After one year, the supervision published the report on DPS, Landwide Services but varying in quality? The supervisory report is serious and shows a fundamental failure in the provision of services to mentally ill people. The report is briefly mentioned in the Ministry of Health's draft budget for the current year. However, the Ministry itself states that this and other supervisory reports show that the failure of healthcare continues to recur. The big question then is what the Minister of Health and Welfare who owns health businesses do to ensure the quality and content of the treatment offered to mentally ill and other patients. The task of supervision is to detect failures, while the minister of health and care is responsible for ensuring that failures do not recur. To the right, a proposal was put forward in the budget position asking for an explanation of the measures taken by the Government to correct the general failure and deficiencies in the health care service that the Health Authority has revealed through its supervisory reports in recent years. Unfortunately, the proposal was supported only by the opposition parties, not by the government parties. It is self-evident that government parties do not want transparency about the follow-up of healthcare failures. However, we assume that the Government assumes responsibility for following up the failure identified by the Health Inspectorate with the specialist health service. I would challenge the Council of State to explain the concrete measures taken by the Government to improve the quality of the district psychiatric centres, in the light of the 2008 serious supervisory report. The right has proposed a new quality strategy for healthcare, such as: includes the development of several professional guides to good treatment. To improve quality, we also need to know something about the quality of healthcare. The cooperative administration, Bondevik II, developed 18 quality indicators, but then the work seems to have stopped. From the Right, we would like to stress that healthcare needs to be managed according to quality objectives, not just according to economic objectives. This is essential for patients to get help that actually helps. The trade unions have done and are doing a lot of work on quality development in healthcare. The medical association has carried out several so-called breakthrough projects in the field of mental health protection. One of them was the KEPP, the quality and effectiveness of outpatient services for people with mental disorders. The measure was established in cooperation between the Medical Association and the Cooperative Government. 24 participant groups from 30 outpatient clinics across the country worked systematically to implement and measure the effectiveness of interventions to ensure better services for mentally ill. For example, measures were put in place to reduce waiting time from referral to specialist evaluation, to improve patient treatment procedures and to strengthen cooperation between outpatients and permanent practitioners. In spring, a breakthrough project on early detection and treatment of psychosis is to be carried out. The project targets both specialist and primary health services and is established in cooperation between several trade unions and user organisations. I would encourage the Council of State to ensure that health businesses contribute to this important quality work, and not least that the experience of the project is used to improve the supply of mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2550	The evaluation report for the Mental Health Progression Plan shows that ten years with the escalation plan have given a boost to mental health work in Norway. Mainly, we have achieved the quantitative objectives of resource and activity growth for mental health work in municipalities. The number of service years has increased significantly, and we have received nearly 3,000 new dwellings. We have had a marked increase in outpatient activity and in the daily capacity of district psychiatric centers. It has also been a significant increase in staffing in child and youth psychiatry, and its coverage has increased significantly. Training capacity in the higher education sector has been expanded and the recruitment basis is clearly strengthened. The evaluation shows that user involvement has gained a much more central place, but this is still a major challenge. In the case of coercion, the main findings are that the estimates of the extent of coercion and of changes in the use of coercion are very uncertain. However, although quantitative targets have been achieved, there is a central problem that we do not know enough about the content of the services provided. We don't know enough about the quality of supply. The same applies to education and competence. Although a person has been successful in a volumeless unconstruction of relevant educational pathways, we do not know how much the various educational programmes really guarantee the necessary professional competence. Large geographical differences have been identified in the staff coverage of services for children, young people and adults. Access to qualified personnel, special psychiatrists and psychologists varies. The escalation plan has probably been essentially a structural reform with a weak focus on content and quality. It is therefore appropriate to focus on the further development of quality indicators and quality assurance. In particular, it is important to take a force to obtain reliable nationwide facts for the use of coercion in mental health protection. It is also important that an additional look at the treatment provision for those patients who are currently known has a lack of provision. It particularly applies to the elderly and, in general, to those with easier mental disorders. The centre party therefore fully agrees with the interpellant that there should be a greater degree of standardisation of psychiatric treatment, especially in areas where there is currently good evidence of effective treatment. According to WHO, mental health problems will be the most important disease group in a few decades. In view of this, the question of whether sufficient efforts are being made to prevent mental health problems. The most important part of prevention must take place in municipalities, in the community. Is there sufficient funding for mental health work in the municipalities through the escalation plan? For example, most of the new psychologist positions are: created in health establishments. How can competence be strengthened in municipalities? People with mental disorders often also have drug problems, other health problems and problems with working life. Are we good enough to help with composite health problems? Still there are many questions. We have enough critical reports: from the National Audit Office on the supply to adults of mental health problems and from the Health Authority on the violation of laws and regulations by district psychiatric centres. In Norway today we have a so-called 24 hour structure compared to mental health protection in other countries. About 70 pst. of the resources for mental health protection go to the specialist services, about 30 pst. to the municipalities. Half of hospital psychiatric hospital emergencies should have taken action at a regional psychiatric/municipal level. 40 pst. the daily hospitalisation of district psychiatric centres should have been available at municipal level. Up to 400,000–500,000 patients before mental health protection are currently treated in psychiatric wards and waiting for housing and care in municipalities. This shows that poor accessibility not only owes to the economy but also to poor organisation and methods of work and lack of cooperation. So the structural work in psychiatry must continue, so that we get more emphasis on prevention, early diagnosis and improvement of the quality of psychiatry services in municipalities in particular. This effort must also have implications for the training of health workers in psychiatry. More have to be explored and further explored with a view to working in the community health service and in the prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2563	I would first like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellation debate. We have achieved many of the quantity targets in the escalation plan, while there is still a lot of quality and equal treatment. For this reason, the Christian People's Party has proposed in several rounds continued to designate mental health for a period of time, for which unfortunately we have not received a majority. It is all the more important to have clear targets for further follow-up. I want to mention three areas where today we clearly see great inequalities, depending on where you live in the country and what offers are given. One area concerns the group of patients to which the interpellant itself points, namely patients with severe coercive disorders. ANANKE, which is the association of people with coercive disorders, has pointed out – as the interpellant also mentioned – that it is the fourth most common mental disorder in Norway. There's something many people don't know about. They also say that 50,000 people are hit. Many are affected by this disorder early in their youth, and without treatment, patients may suffer from coercive illness for the rest of their lives. There is a paradox that effective treatment is available today, but it is not implemented everywhere and is therefore not given to a large proportion of these patients. It's actually maybe a minority who gets this treatment. There are also clinical guidelines that work and are agreed upon by the scientific community. The treatment, mentioned earlier today, exposure therapy, has been shown to lead to as much as 60-80 pst. Healing. Because this treatment is not implemented and standardised in the case of coercive disorders, many of these patients are mistreated. It's also a big problem. The other area I want to mention is coercive treatment, where inequalities are high between the different regional health businesses. The Christian People's Party has a draft representative for consideration in the committee, and we will have our own debate on this in a short time. I therefore do not want to go into the issue of coercive treatment today, except to point out that, in my opinion, Norway as a whole is too high in the use of coercive care in the field of mental health protection. Fortunately, there are some points of light that the Council of State also pointed to in its first article. The third area I want to mention is an increasing problem among children and young people, namely eating disorders. We've also had that before today. Here we have huge inequalities, but perhaps a major lack of good treatment places. The special settings that exist have so little capacity that only the sick can receive treatment. The young people themselves say that unless they have tried to commit suicide once or more, they have no chance of being admitted to special departments. This is scary. It should have been that the best environments had also had the capacity to get in early diagnosis and treatment, and not least guidance for example. decision-makers or others in the community health service who often first catch the young patient. Earlier today, we had a debate on, among other things, Capio Anorexia Centers, which have available capacity, but which are not used in full despite the lack of offers elsewhere in the country. The competence acquired at Capio should, in my opinion, be accepted with thanks and interest. Your treatment regime works, and you can gain experience from it. I am not in doubt that if the Minister of Health and the Government, as the chief health care officer, wanted to do so, they could of course ensure that patients still had to choose this institution as their place of treatment. It must be the results that count for the individual patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2580	I would like to thank you for an exciting debate and a positive reception of the issue raised, both from the other representatives and from the Council of State. When one implemented the escalation plan, of course, it was a very big focus on what was one of the main steps: building down the big, central institutions and building up good, decentralised offers. In this way, we can say that in psychiatry in recent years, there has been a strong focus on the patient group that needs a more or less permanent provision of housing in municipalities and a more or less permanent link to the psychiatric community. This means that we can very often forget that having a mental illness also means having a mental illness, looking for a psychiatrist, receiving treatment and getting well again. If you get the right treatment at the right time, it doesn’t have to be a condition for which you need continuous treatment – that is, a disease that requires you to have specialized housing services, proximity to a district psychiatric centre, etc. – but simply a disease for which an adequate treatment is given and becomes healthy. Therefore, it is also a challenge for some people who face a psychiatry and a psychiatric offer that is not adapted to the suffering they have to experience that they are still receiving treatment that does not work. This will eventually lead to the patient becoming treatment resistant in many ways and no longer believe it is possible to recover — and perhaps also to develop other disorders as a result. This is also one of the main reasons for addressing this issue, because we also need to focus on the fact that mental illness is something for which you can receive treatment. It is important to get the right treatment at the right time. Now we know that there has been a plan for implementing documented treatment for coercive diseases to the Health Directorate, and my closing question to the Council of State is: How will this plan be followed up in further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2594	To get to the end first: since many people have been in and referred to the TV 2 documentary on November 4th, which I think made the impression on everyone who saw it, I want to answer what has been done in relation to it. For it was raised by the representative Bent Höie on a written question on 9 November last year. I also stated that it is worrying when there is no effective treatment for mental disorders, even if there are leads. What has been done since then is that this has been included in the 2010 governance papers with regional health companies, and I have also asked regional health companies to ensure that district psychiatric centres have competence in different forms of therapy, including exposure therapy. So this has been followed up, and it will also be followed up in tertiary meetings with the RHFs during this year. So to some other things that were taken up, not least this about getting involved with the problems at a young age, which Kjöna's Kjos was about. It's obviously important. If you see that a child has mental challenges, you may not need to be fully involved in the specialist health service. It is so important to have the lowthreshold services mentioned. Ashkoy is a very good example, where you have a very good low threshold offer, both school health and psychological services, and it also has something to do with proper treatment at the right time – a lot can be solved at an early stage. What do you do with the failure that has been revealed, ask the representative, Sjøli. Then I just want to repeat a little of what I said: it is important to increase competence, make sure that education also has a focus on multidisciplinaryism and on the treatment that we want today much more decentralised — outpatient treatment. Of course, it is also important to make the provision of treatment known through supervisors, as I mentioned in a previous post. So to this with coercion: the government has decided to appoint a legislative committee in the current year to assess the ethical, professional and legal aspects of current regulations and practices in the field of mental health protection, including the treatment criterion, i.e. the condition, for coercive treatment in general – precisely because here we see that there are differences that have also been mentioned. A new national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercion in mental health services shall also be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2607	Case No. So 9 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2623	It is true that one has recently had a very high focus on a specific case by one of the healthcare companies related to – at least suspected – a manipulation of the date of convocation to patient studies and treatment. In our opinion, this is just one example of different ways in which patients’ rights are undermined in our healthcare companies. We have also recorded the review that the Minister of Health was right to carry out in the health businesses related to whether similar conditions can be detected in the other health businesses. The review shows that this is not the case, linked to the type of data manipulation. It's not the intention of this interpellation either. What is the intention of this interpellation is to address the challenge it poses by the fact that a health-care provider has the right to special treatment, to implement the right to specialised treatment and to finance the right to the implementation of specialised treatment. This gives, according to what is also, for example. Professor Syse has addressed a challenge related to the goat and oatmeal problem. The problem that patients’ rights are not adequately respected is documented by a number of recent reports relating to patients’ rights, to which I will return. When the Patient Rights Act was adopted in June 1999, it gave patients the right to assessment, health care and the right to free hospital choice. However, the right to an individual time limit for treatment was proposed by the Bondevik II Government and was adopted in the Stortinget on 2 December 2003. At the same time, a right of treatment was introduced in private establishments in Norway or abroad, if the deadline was broken. In the opinion, the Committee unanimously stated: ‘The Committee has noted that the Ministry proposes that the healthcare should inform the patients concerned of the expiry of the treatment period. The treatment period will have a greater real impact on patients when they are given a concrete time to which they can relate and adjust.’ But the question of this interpellation is simply whether the Storting's intention of patient rights and the Patient Rights Act is fulfilled. Have patients been significantly improved in terms of rights and legal certainty? Report No. of the Court of Auditors 5 for 2008–2009 summarises a study on mental health protection. The press release of the Riksrevision stated: ‘Health professionals practice the prioritisation rule very differently. Obviously, legal spaces are refused, while patients who should have been refused are admitted. There is no link between diagnosis and prioritisation of the patient or between diagnosis and deadline for treatment.» In addition, the report states: ‘The setting of time limits for delayed treatment also appeared to be more marked in terms of capacity than in terms of patient care.’ The Health Directorate’s report on waiting times and waiting lists for the second quarter of 2009 once again pointed out wide variations in the allocation of health care rights: ‘There are large regional variations in rights allocation in somatic disciplines. The share allocated to the right to necessary health care varies from 44 to 82 percent between regions in the second tertiary of 2009. Health Mid-Norway is distinct from the other regions with a higher rate of entitlement.’» A new Health Directorate report related to the 2009 waiting list situation was presented today. This report confirmed exactly the same thing: ‘There are variations in the allocation of rights between different sectors and regions. For the somatic sector, there are wide variations between regions in the proportion of patients given priority. In the third tertiary in 2009, Health Middle Norway gave priority to 80 percent of patients, while Health Nord prioritised 48 percent of patients. In adult mental health protection, the proportion of priority patients varied from 91 per cent to 66 per cent [[Health Mid-Norway]] [[Health North]] Health oversight carried out a two-year supervision of mental health protection in District Psychiatric Centres. In report 4/2009, they provide a summary after one year of supervision, entitled ‘DPS, nationwide services, varying quality?’. The report mentions, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the ‘In 15 of the 28 DPS, the assessment and prioritisation of referrals did not always comply with the requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action.’; Further: ‘In some DPS, the waiting time was found to be up to six months for the first consultation and treatment periods were set independently of the patient’s condition and situation.’ Further: ‘The health oversight of the Member States is concerned that there still appears to be widespread failure in the prioritisation and evaluation of patients referred to in the DPS. In addition to the fact that this may have serious consequences for the individual patient’s health care, errors and deficiencies in this area may also contribute to weakening the interaction between DPS and reference agencies such as prescribers and other healthcare elements.’ In the Riksrevision report No. 3 for 2009–2010, once again weaknesses were identified in the ownership management of regional health businesses by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In the press release from the Riksrevision, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The application of the deadline for the treatment of patients in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts in Health South-East could lead to a serious breach of the Patient Rights Act. [[TSB]] Patients are encouraged to accept that the initial treatment period, based on medically sound waiting time, is delayed due to a lack of institution’s capacity. Patients are not provided with sufficient and correct information to give a qualified consent for a limited period of time for patients, thereby enabling them to exercise their rights.’ In the light of the National Audit Office’s report in 2008-2009, the Right proposed to set up an independent assessment body for the patient’s rights already at the time, so that hospitals cannot limit these rights on the basis of their own capacity and economy. The Minister of Health then rejected this problem and said to the Stortinget, in the form of a letter, when the Committee considered the matter: ‘There is no reason to claim that patients are not given a time limit for treatment based on a responsible medical professional assessment. I do not see the need at the moment to make changes to the Patient Rights Act in this area." This interpellation has just arisen in order to have a broader debate on how many reports from the responsible authorities and the supervisory authorities a Health Minister from the Workers' Party needs before admitting that patients' rights are not being sufficiently followed up in our healthcare companies, that they are being manipulated with these rights in view of taking into account capacity considerations, and not taking into account the patient's medical condition, which was the clear premise on the part of Stortinget when adopting the new Patient Rights Act. The case from Asker and Bærum is probably a single event that illustrates that there are very unwise ways to manipulate patient rights that are easy to discover and easy to comply with. The challenge for the Council of State must be to run a system where there are an incredible number of more, significantly more complicated and more difficult ways to control and manipulate the same rights, and that this does not go beyond those patients who themselves have the least opportunity to follow up their rights, who have the least opportunity to follow up that they get a letter in the mailbox saying that if their rights are not followed up, they can contact HELFO, simply because they do not have a mailbox, and simply because they do not read letters. What discussions relating to our health services and our system will the Council of State open up, so that this should be individual rights for the individual, and not rights that safeguard the system in front of the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2686	As I read the interpellation, it started with Asker and the Bærum case, and I've also taken that as my starting point. However, as also noted, this case is under police investigation and under medical supervision. Therefore, I do not want to give an assessment of these matters, but just stress that if it turns out that the Hospital Asker and Bærum have changed the date of the deadline for processing in order to save money, I see it very seriously. Patients entitled to the necessary health care should be given a concrete date for the last time they receive treatment in the specialist healthcare system. The patient shall be informed of this period. The deadline is legally binding for specialist healthcare and the patient has a legal claim for treatment within the prescribed period. The aim of the right to necessary health care is to ensure an equivalent level of healthcare for patients across the country and that patients are also given proper priority. We have established a separate contact point, HELFO Patient Service, where the patient can contact if the deadline is not met. Health businesses get a day to find an offer where the patient can receive treatment within 14 days. If they are unable to do so, HELFO will take over and order treatment from an institution with which they have a framework agreement or abroad. The regional health undertaking is responsible for covering the cost. It is likely that it costs more to pay for treatment by others than to use its own capacity. Therefore, health businesses will benefit from the fact that patients do not use their right to receive treatment elsewhere. The representative, Höie, states that the order and delivery roles are not sufficiently separate from the current system, and states that this is a possible reason why hospitals can use different methods of shifting the timing of deadlines. The model of health enterprises is to a certain extent based on a distinction between the functions of ordering and performing by dividing the roles of the regional health enterprise on the one hand, and health enterprises and other healthcare providers on the other. Ensure that regional health establishments have an order function, but at the same time they own health establishments in their region, and they are responsible for the performance function of the State. In the event of a deadline breach, the order function of the HELFO Patient Service, which is an external establishment in the Health Directorate, is outside the regional health establishments. The order and delivery roles are then more clearly separated. The reason why HELFO provides the deadline provider with one day to find a new treatment date is that most patients prefer healthcare to be provided in the neighbourhood. According to HELFO, this was successful for approx. half of the 2009 deadline breaks. The look-up in the Evening Post in February showed that only a few of the time-limit patients are seeking HELFO treatment. There may be several reasons why there are no more people who use this option: the patient may not have received sufficient information about his rights in the event of a breach of time or that the patient prefers to wait for treatment at his own hospital. In my view, changes in the organisation of specialist healthcare will not necessarily result in better patient rights being respected. I believe that good internal control and risk management are essential to prevent, prevent and detect deviations, including in the case of a breach of deadlines. At the business meetings in January, I demanded that regional health companies ensure that hospitals undergo referral processing systems and procedures. All regional health companies have reported to me that no findings suggest systematic manipulation of the deadline. A large number of cases have been examined in all regions and it appears that the deadline has changed in 0.07 to 1.5 pst. of the cases. The review in Health South-East is based on information from all health establishments, except Hospital Asker and Bærum. As an example, the Hospital Inland HF has been subject to 65,535 cases from the last year, and they found 46 changes to the deadline. Health Nord has mapped approx. 500000 references, and only in Health Bergen have they been subjected to approx. Twenty thousand. Regional health enterprises have reported several explanations as to why the date had changed. The most important explanations were: misspelling in connection with the date installation, that some systems do not allow misspellings to be corrected, that the change had been made as desired from and in consultation with the patient, that the diagnosis had changed, that could be immediate help insertions or the move of the date in time. Hospitals are reported to have systems and procedures for handling referrals. Regional health businesses believe that information on patients’ rights needs to be improved. Health Mid-Norway reports that they have challenges with which patients should be granted rights status. I have assured myself that regional health companies are following up on this. Health oversight has carried out more supervision of compliance with the Patient Rights Act. These inspections and decisions in complaints have shown that the law is not always complied with. In addition, a study has shown that only a few patients use their rights in the event of a deadline breach. I can't give a sure answer as to why it's like this, or how big the problem really is. Claims have been made that patients are being inadequately informed about their rights, that the legislation is too complicated and too little known, or that patients choose to wait for treatment at their local hospital. The Health Directorate has prepared priority counselling and letter templates for summoning and informing patients' rights. These are now being used in healthcare companies, and I expect this to help ensure that patients' rights are respected. Following the case at the Hospital Asker and Bærum, a number of measures have been taken. Regional health businesses are working on how they can improve their ability to inform patients about their rights. I will continue to assess whether recent measures are effective means of better compliance with patients’ rights. If it turns out that these measures are not sufficient to improve the situation, I will consider additional measures, including: the evaluation and amendment of the legislation. The compliance of healthcare with patient rights is a prerequisite for prioritising those who need it the most, and also for providing an equivalent treatment offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2714	I record that with all the reports that I drew up, both from the National Audit Office, from the Health Authority and from the Health Directorate, it was only when the revelations related to Asker and the Bærum case came that the question was really raised with the regional health companies. I still believe that the approach taken by the Government to this matter is not sufficient, precisely because it appears to be reasonably obvious that there are also basic system errors here. I agree with the Council of State that, for example, in the original business model, there was a certain element of an order-executor model. But this is, of course, under constant weakening by the fact that this government, for example, have opened up employees and directors of the regional health establishments, in accordance with the so-called group model, to be members of the board of directors of the local health establishments. This clearly helps to water down the order-executor model, which was the original model to which the Storting joined. I would also like to challenge the Council of State to answer whether she believes the same thing as Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen thought when he last replied to the Stortinget about this, namely that there is no basis for claiming that the patient does not have a time limit for treatment based on a medical professional assessment. Does the Council of State, after all these reports, believe that there is a position the Council of State can stand in for? Then I also feel that the Council of State does not view this as a general problem, as opposed to the Right. But can I then challenge the Council of State if she sees it as a problem that e.g.? the design of new letter templates is not sufficient to ensure that, for example: patients who are drug addicts are actually granted their patient rights, which are also linked to their right to receive sufficient information about the individual rights that they have to choose from other treatment options? The same question also applies to psychiatric patients. Is the Council willing to see that today's system does not sufficiently respect the individual rights of these people to have the same choice as that of the other patient groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2725	In his first post, the interpellant took some pretty strong expression in his mouth when it came to the system I was running as the Council of State. Now I was asked if I thought it was a basic system error. No, I cannot say that I believe that there are fundamental system errors, based on the case that has led to all the work done to investigate this with deadlines and information to patients and whether there have been changes in it in healthcare companies other than Asker and Bærum. On the contrary, I would like to say that what these investigations show is that you have tried everywhere to comply with this. I gave a very detailed explanation of the results of the studies that have been carried out, and all of the records that have been reviewed. But there are potentials for improvement in some areas. This information is not at least related to it. The interpellant actually gives a clue: it was asked about drug users, it was asked about psychiatric patients, how they relate to information. I can mention many other groups that may have difficulty taking up the information that is being provided. This is precisely why new message templates have been developed where the information has to be prepared. But at the same time, the person receiving the information must feel that the information given is understandable. That's why this, especially the information page, is an area we need to focus a lot on. Whether or not the information is perceived – there is no lack of information, it is there – should not be a decisive factor in getting treatment before the deadline for treatment expires. So this is what we want to focus heavily on. The second is, of course, as in all other areas, competence. Prioritisation guides are important in this context and also the use of health business systems. This is something I would like to have a lot of pressure on, and which is actually a direct result of the work that has been done on the matter that has initiated everything, namely the case of the hospital Asker and Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2736	The aim of the Patient Rights Act is to help ensure equal access to good quality healthcare for the general public by giving patients rights to healthcare. The provisions of the law shall contribute to the promotion of patient-health trust and respect for the lives, integrity and human dignity of the individual patient. Today's interpellation raises an important principleal debate on how well we are in practice able to follow up the purpose of the law, and a more specific question, whether there are practices that indicate failure. The relevant cases are dealt with by the supervisory authority and investigated by the police. This citizen for the necessary investigative competence to be placed on the agenda and for independent factual review and conclusion. As long as the cases are investigated by the police, I will not comment on these, but we should remember that the usual legal principles also apply in matters of this nature. Hospitals are large organisations, and only a few people have roles and duties to address the issues highlighted in the cases mentioned. The working day in a hospital is physically and mentally demanding. I want to pay tribute to all the employees who keep their moods up, who give inspiration, for the benefit of their patients and their colleagues, even though demanding and serious issues lie unsolved above the organisation. The background to the right to necessary health care is that conditions and diseases have different natural processes. The old house doctors used observation as an active tool, because some diseases are best passed on by themselves. On the other hand, it is important to get to grips with modern treatment of many diseases while still at an early stage, so that chances of recovery are good. That's why we've created a system based on a medical-professional assessment alone, to determine the urgency. If the responsible doctor sets the deadline to e.g. two weeks, this is legally binding on the hospital. If the time limit is exceeded, the patient will be ordered on request from HELFO Patient Service elsewhere, and this will have to be paid by the hospital that has missed the deadline. The current law reflects the professional ethics which, in my experience, is based in the sector. There are time-limits, but only a few time-limits apply to HELFO for treatment elsewhere, public or private, paid by the hospital behind the breach. We don't have enough knowledge of why this happens. We assume that some patients still prefer treatment as close to home as possible. Adequate information on the consistency and alternatives of deadlines breaks is a necessary part of the quality of the treatment. The deadline was set on the basis of the best medical professional assessments, based on available information. Therefore, it may be to advise that the patient chooses to ignore the deadline. It is also important that the information ensures that the treatment in another hospital is professionally equivalent to the local supply. It is important that the Health Directorate has now set up priority counsellors and letter templates for calling and informing patients' rights. All stages of this chain must be quality assurance. A banal point is that a large group of patients have reduced vision, e.g. letter and information material font sizes are important. We shall await the outcome of the police investigation into the matter in question. But in a complex service, it is important to have good internal control procedures, have an open culture for reporting errors and having the ability to learn from errors, so that they do not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2753	I would like to first of all thank the interpellant for raising this valuable interpellant. The fact that it comes in a late evening hour doesn't make the debate less serious. It is very serious that patients, consciously or unconsciously, are not granted their rights in the Norwegian healthcare system. I don't think there is an extensive and deliberate manipulation of waiting lists in the Norwegian health service, but I can't be sure that that doesn't happen. Sometimes there is a need to look at problems and challenges with new eyes. We are all well aware that someone else is looking at matters from the outside. During these days, the Health and Welfare Committee is considering a proposal from the Progress Party on an external review of systems, management and structures in the Norwegian health system. Such a review may, for example: performed by the Norwegian Veritas, we have pointed out. Such a review would improve quality and improve several aspects, including systems that currently relate to patient rights. I would like to hear the assessment of this proposal by the Council of State and the Government parties, as I believe such a review would be very appropriate for Norwegian patients. I am, like the interpellant of the belief that the order and delivery roles must be clearly separated, and that they are weakened by the way the health care system of today is organized. In fact, this is an area where the National Assembly of Norway could learn from Norwegian municipalities that have gradually become quite good at separating the order and delivery roles. The thing we witnessed in connection with the trickling of waiting list data can initially have only one purpose and one motive: to save the hospital for money. It is therefore necessary to modify the funding system in such a way that the patient does not become a source of expenditure for hospitals but a source of income. This is done, inter alia: by increasing the ISF share to about 60 pst. Patient rights are violated in the Norwegian health and care services, probably every day. In many cases this is done at all on the patient. These are complex rights that require resource-intensive patients or relatives to ensure that they are cared for. This is a major challenge for the low-resource patient groups, such as: older users of care, drug users and psychiatric patients. There are three examples that stand out as clearly defined as groups with problems in the exercise of their own rights. There is a strong need for a change in the system that respects patient rights in a completely different way from what is being done today. That is why there is a correct and good problem that has been addressed by the interpellant today. The Progress Party has repeatedly addressed various aspects of patient rights over the past 30 years. We have far from reached the goal, which has also been illustrated by this case. I will therefore end by encouraging the Council of State and the Government parties to address the need for an external review of governance structures and systems for the benefit of patients and not the systems. As mentioned earlier, the proposal lies within the Committee for consideration. It's just to find out the yes-stamp when you're going to vote later on this matter. Should the government councils and government parties not have a yes stamp, I shall be more than willing to provide such a stamp.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2775	Governments were concerned with information and it is important that the information provided is understood. And I guess everyone agrees. But who is responsible? I learned in my early study days that the information cannot be considered to have been provided until it is understood. It could be a challenge for the Council of State to take on board. Drug addicts experience failure at many stages of health care. Both the first and second government statements by the government of Stoltenberg contained many beautiful promises of bets on the offer to addicts. Health ministers from this government have tried to turn each other into statements of sympathy for these patients. The last government statement states that ‘drug addicts shall be granted their patient rights and guaranteed the right to receive treatment at the appropriate level and in a timely manner on the basis of an individual assessment’. This is just a distant dream for the patients, as the dream castle Soria Moria was. In the real world, the waiting time for drug treatment has increased considerably during the Stoltenberg government, and 4 300 drug addicts are now waiting for help. The waiting time has increased by almost two weeks only in a year, and on average, drug addicts wait for two and a half months for help. Many expect significantly longer than this. In Health North, addicts have to wait on average for four and a half months for treatment. I would like to remind the Council of State that, while the government is continuing the seminar on heroin distribution, more than 4,300 drug addicts are in line for treatment. They're asking for help to get restless, not help rushing. Many patients experience that they are not receiving help within the medically prescribed time limit for treatment. In Health Mid Norway this applies for 35 pst. of patients, and in Health Nord RFH experience a total of 42 pst. by the patients that they did not receive help when they had a right to do so. Even more serious is this because the deadlines are also being manipulated. This can be seen in the Riksrevisions Document 3:2 for 2009-2010. The National Audit Office writes in the press release on the report: «Patients are encouraged to accept that the initial treatment period, based on medically sound waiting time, is delayed due to a lack of capacity of the institution. Patients are not provided with sufficient and correct information to give a qualified consent for a limited period of time for patients, thereby enabling them to exercise their rights.’ We have a very concrete example of this, which is reflected in a letter that the Department of Drug and Addiction Treatment has written to the management of Aker Hospital. The clinic warns that the only way to achieve a budgetary balance is ‘to lay down a unit and cancel employees or to put in place a full intake stop for new patients in the LAR, even though this will result in more deadline breaks in the next round’. The reports from the National Audit Office and the Health Directorate as well as this specific example show, we believe, systematic violation of patient rights for drug addicts. This practice here is contrary to the Storting's intention when the right to individual treatment was introduced, namely to ensure that patients receive health care when the need arises, not when the hospital has capacity. When, in the context of the State budget, the Right’s Group asked questions about how many more people would be treated by the Government’s draft budget, the Council of State replied that the draft budget was not decisive because the right to treatment is governed by the Patient Rights Act. I hope the Council of State in the light of this information that is pointed out here, gets its head off the sand. In fact, drug addicts do not get help when they need it, even if they are entitled to it under the Patient Rights Act. This systematic failure, revealed by the National Audit Office, the Health Directorate and the Health Inspectorate, is the responsibility of the Government and the Minister of Health and Welfare. We have heard enough of good intentions and expressions of sympathy for the addicts from different states. On the right, we demand that the Minister of Health and Welfare explain exactly what she will do to ensure that drug addicts and others are not exposed to systematic violations of patient rights. A good start may be to admit that a breach of patient rights is actually a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2802	Initially, I would like to stress that I think it is a little special to discuss a specific matter in Stortinget, which is at the same time under investigation by the police and for treatment at the Health Authority. At the moment, we do not know what is the reason that there are been tampering with dates for calling patients for treatment and investigation by one of our healthcare professionals. Only the fact that there is doubt that the medical-professional principle has been set aside for the benefit of the economy is very serious for the trust in our healthcare system. Now we know that several hundred patients have been called to a single hospital as a result of the media review and discovery of dates, i.e. This has affected patients to a greater or lesser extent. The interpellant takes note even if the case may have caused the orderer role and the performer role to be insufficiently illuminated in today's system. Interpellant asks whether the Minister of Health will propose some system changes to ensure that patients’ rights are followed up. The centre party would like to hold a debate on the orderer and performer model and the rest of the business economy principle that Right agreed to introduce into the healthcare system, and what kind of lucky or unfortunate aspects this has had for the development of the healthcare system. It's no secret that the Center Party was opposed to the enterprise model when he was introduced, but we're also concerned that once we've organized the health care system according to a form of governance, we need to take responsibility for creating trust in the system and introducing control mechanisms that prevent any negative outcomes for those for whom this system is designed, i.e. patients. We are concerned that this debate must take place when we know with certainty the reason for the date of the venture. To date, there have been no similar cases in other health services. What's, on the other hand, covered, and that might apply a little bit the same way, is that at least five hospitals, according to the Evening Post on February 18th, use a computer program that easily shows how they can get more money from the state for each patient. It is a system that shows how hospitals can detect diagnosis, so that they get the highest possible ignition. One is best paid if the most expensive diagnosis is considered to be the main diagnosis. In my view, such systems have been used in several health services, showing that the level of input-driven funding has been reduced to the level of the department. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has announced a review of the health care funding system. The Interaction Reform has already proposed reducing input-driven funding from 40 pst. to 30 pst., something that the Center Party thinks is a change in the right direction. After listening to the debate, I'm becoming more and more disgusted about how agile and complex a system we've created so that patients can easily get the help they need, when they need it. We make ordering and performing functions, and then we criticize these. We create patient rights and deadlines, and then we criticize that they are not followed up. The justice system that we ourselves have created, clearly favors the resource-powerful and works badly for, for example. drug users. The centre party takes seriously the suspicion that economic considerations may be based on a medical/professional principle – at least on a case-by-case basis. But today's debate I think is actually superficial, it is political, and it is a little constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2823	What the interpellant is highlighting today is really quite alarming, namely manipulation with dates of call for investigation and treatment. Whether it has been to save money or to get better waiting lists, don't know. When I read the letters that patients had received from the Hospital Asker and Bærum, it was easy to see that this standard letter, which I guess it was from their side, contained several violations of the Patient Rights Act. It is good that the Minister of Health quickly took action and examined the situation throughout the country. The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party asked in letter of 26 January this year to get a statement from the Council of State on the legal certainty of patients. Among other things, we would like to have answers as to whether there were established national standards and call templates, letters of patient rights, etc. We also wanted to be enlightened. Two days later, on 28 January, we read in a press release from the Ministry of Health and Health that the Directorate of Health has created its own letter templates and information leaflets to ensure that central patient rights are respected. That's good, but this should have been taken care of at a long earlier time. This is not the first time that the Government and the Department have been made aware that patient cows are being tricked away and that patients are not informed of their rights. Yeah, that's, if possible, I'd say, almost worse in mental health protection. I'll try to document it. Already in 2006 we were able to read an article in the Evening Post by a specialist in psychiatry. He pointed out that patients are not properly informed, that they are not granted the right to necessary health care as required by law, that the time limits for treatment are too long, and that serious sick people are eaten with a few hours of therapy. Delays are avoided by rejecting patients. In 2007, Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad received comprehensive evidence from the Resource Clinic that patients were being rejected, that patients are not being informed about rights, about ticking with patient numbers, etc. This is true of Ahush. In 2008, we read in Dagbladet that the Riksrevision in a report had revealed that patients in the field of mental health protection are being rejected. The report states: ‘Precautionary remedies are refused, while patients who should have been refused are admitted. There is no correlation between diagnosis and prioritisation of the patient or between diagnosis and time-limit for treatment.» Even in recent times, I have received several enquiries from medics who have mentally ill patients in need of specialist health care assistance. They're stuck on their own. On request, they get unjustified rejection, and both patients, family and permanent feel quite helpless. Not even a consultation with guidance is offered. In other words, it is not new that hospitals are trying to avoid breaching the waiting list guarantee, but what is now revealed at the Hospital Asker and Bærum may be easier to see through. It is more difficult when patients and doctors are totally rejected in the specialist healthcare services in mental health. These patients do not get into the waiting list at all. And this is happening today, in 2010. I'm pretty sure that part of these patients, as at least the prescribers have assessed it, are rights spaces. On written questions from me to the Minister of Health, she answers with the laws and regulations that apply, and that the Health Authority is responsible for assessing the lack of soundness of the treatment offer – that is correct. The Minister for Health has also agreed that it is not acceptable, what is happening, and then she refers to the future cooperation reform. Will this practice then only continue — that is my real question — in the field of mental health until a far from final reform comes? There is still a lot of work to be done here, and it's about mentally ill people who often aren't the first in line to be able to deal with themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2844	I take the floor because, after listening to the debate, I feel that there are some dimensions to the problem that are described here, which in some way are not completely suspended. The introductory part of the interpellant is based on what VG has revealed about manipulation with dates of convocation of patients at the Hospital Asker and Bærum. Here, very serious conditions are revealed in cancer patients, priority patients, relationships that should not occur at all. This is a matter that has been reported to the police, and as such should, or should, a debate on whether the systems are working or not, come after the police investigation – whether it is as described here, or whether there are individual cases. The interpellant reflected on whether the problem was the order or delivery role. My immediate association with this matter was whether this has its origin in the economic system, the financing system, in hospitals, whether there should be something in the economic system that kind of laid the foundation for this kind of manipulation. Then we will have a very serious matter which I assume will be dealt with in Stortinget, i.e. a matter of the financing system as such. As I said, we don't know anything about that. We have to wait for the police investigation. Then I feel that the opposition in the debate is drawing on the wide range of challenges we have in our healthcare system – in the field of psychiatry, in the field of drug treatment, in this wide range of areas – one points out that we have challenges and points out the reports of the National Audit Office. These reports have pointed out a lot of the same things many years back in time. Also when the Right sat with the government, there was a breach of deadlines, there were patients who did not receive treatment when they should get it. What has happened in recent years – it must be said in this debate – is that efforts have been made, for example. in psychiatry has increased dramatically. Far more patients receive treatment today than five years ago, than ten years ago. The dimension of the debate, that in a way to spread the whole spectrum of challenges we have within the healthcare system, I don't think I'm related to the matter that was originally described, the serious matter we had at the Hospital Asker and Bærum, which is now for investigation by the police. That's why I imagine we'll come back to this whole problem when we know what really happened, whether it's a local case – we hope it is – so you can find a solution to this. I feel like here the dimensions are blowing up a little bit well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2859	It's always dangerous when debates have been going on for a long time and people are getting tired, helping it get more. But after listening to a few of the posts outside in this interpellation debate, I want to underline one thing: the interpellation that has been taken up is taken up in a much larger perspective than just the situation at the Hospital Asker and Bærum. The other thing that matters is that of course it's what Kjersti Toppe says: it was a lot easier before. It was a lot better before we had patient rights. The previous government introduced these patient rights because there was a contribution to making something more manageable on the rights side to balance the issues of economic governance. Right would have been for this and would have suggested it along with several other bourgeois parties repeatedly under former labor party governments, but we would have had it downed every time. Then we introduced the patient rights because it had to balance. We were going to create transparency, we were going to create a different decision-making information, so that those who were sitting and driving, not just looking blindly at the economy. It is important to remember that precisely when you create economic governance models, it has to be balanced with patient rights. It wasn't that it was better before. The queues were longer, the problems were bigger — and patients’ rights have helped to make some challenges visible. But when I took the floor, it was among other things. Because I'm a little surprised that no more than the interpellant and a couple of others on the civil side perceive the enormous variation you have in the use of patient rights, as a problem, and that it can have an economic incentive. It is not right that the previous speaker said that there were many such reports under the previous government. He has to prove it, because it wasn't. It just has to do with something as simple as the patient's rights came into force for a while in the last government period. You have to check things before you say anything from Stortingen's pulpit. That, I think, is a minimum of demands in such a type of debate. But it has been pointed out, it has been talked about, and questions have been asked to the current red-green government about why these differences are so large, and how the economic incentives of both the Health and the National Audit Office in the investigations they are conducting can be explained as to why people do not get their patient rights. Today, new waiting list statistics have arrived. I really want to get a clear answer from the Council of State on one thing, because I think that if you don't see it as a problem, we've found the solution to most of the health care system. Then we should just travel to North Norway, because in North Norway they have an incredible number of fewer serious illnesses than in the rest of the country. The statistics show that in the third tertiary 2009, it was only 48 pst. of the patients within Health Nord who were given priority, while there were 80 pst. by the trousers who got it. Such large differences do not have a morbidity explanation. Such big differences have to do with something else, and I think it's our job to figure out what it is. This may include, inter alia: be economic reasons for doing so. That is what the supervisory bodies have said before. Then it's more advanced than having been cleared and moved on single dates; then it's a question of what to do in governance, and what the government has done in this regard – since the Health Authority pointed it out, since the Stortinge dealt with the Riksrevision report, and since Bjarne Håkon Hanssen replied to the Stortinge that there's no reason to believe that people don't get the patient rights they claim. I think that's a good reason to believe that people don't get the patient rights they're entitled to. It's possible that some trophies get too many rights, but it's my truth obviously that in the third tertiary, there are some people in northern Norway who should have had rights that they haven't had, because so much difference has no natural explanation of illness. If that's the case, we can resolve the interaction reform and everything else, because then the solution is to look at what's happening in North Norway when people are so much less seriously ill there than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2870	Also in this area, I am very convinced that we will not be able to move forward until a political acknowledges that this is a significant problem for the individual patient. If a takes the system as a starting point, a person can spend a very long time discussing what's causing these big variations. One might try to explain why it happens, but if one starts from what was the starting point of the Storting when one adopted individual medical deadlines, namely the individual's and the patient's rights, this is a very serious situation. Because it is quite obvious that behind all these figures that the Right and the Opposition have presented in this debate today, it is the individual who does not actually get a statutory right that the Storting has given them as a single person. When the rights of the individual are not followed up, the system has to be changed. The easiest thing, of course, would be to do what the system wanted. When the Right and the other bourgeois parties fought out the system of individual medical deadlines and were only able to implement it when one came into government after the 2001 elections, it was because the system constantly fought against this system – all the time – and the system’s foremost defender, the administrative party, was obviously in the front to fight against these rights. Then it is not without reason that we are somewhat skeptical when we today feel that the same party is less willing to accept that this is a problem – not for the system, but for the individual person, who is also very often actually not aware that they have this right, and that the right is being violated. So Kjersti Toppe said that this debate was superficial, that it was political and that it was a little constructive. I only agree with one of these key words: it is very political – and there should be debates in this Chamber – but it is neither superficial nor a little constructive. Yes, it's true that before, there was neither patient rights nor input-driven funding. This meant that patients expected significantly longer within the somatic environment. But the situation was not that because the patients inside the somatic waited longer, the ruspacers and the psychiatric patients had it better than today, on the contrary, they had it even worse, in a system that was considerably worse for all the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2881	It's been special to listen to this debate and look at what was the starting point of the interpellation, because you can't actually talk away from it. I have been sitting and listening to words like ‘manipulation’, ‘triking’, ‘triking away waiting lists’ and a number of things that have to do with the representatives’ own account. But I want to say one thing, and that is that patients are given a different priority between health regions, of course, is something that has been taken into consideration, and something that we have to bottom up in. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Solberg. There's no one who has the exclusive right to mean anything like that. Obviously, when we have patient rights, they have to be practiced the same way. It turns out it's not happening all the way, but it's not because someone manipulates or tricks. There has obviously been a system where judgement has been different from elsewhere. What we've done then is that we've worked hard to get priority counsellors out in order to be able to better comply with the patient rights that are. So just a few things: Order-executors have been highlighted as a good thing. Then I just want to point out to Sweden and the United Kingdom that a strongly formalised distinction between order-writers leads to increased bureaucracy, high administrative costs and the need for skills and resources in the context of contract design and follow-up. The assessment in St.meld. No 45 for 2002–03 is that it is not possible to establish real competition for the entire scope of services in Norway, given geography and demography, and I would ask you to note the time 2002–03 and that it will also require a comprehensive contractual system. Just as a comment on part of the debate that has been. Then I have to say that there are things that have to be corrected, and things that you have to go into, and that we have to do better. Clearly, patients' rights are a legal right that patients have, and we have to do everything in our power to ensure that they are complied with. The biases that are there must be corrected. We work on that every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2892	The debate on substance is closed. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2908	In the evening post on January 17th, we could read about Natasha Pedersen, who had to fight for five years to get a care allowance to care for her disabled daughter. I took this up with the Council of State in the Question Time on 20 January this year, and only a few days later the daughter died. Natasha Pedersen has extensive experience in the functioning of the care pay system, both through his own experience and that of others. She also has experience of how the meeting with the municipality and Nav is experienced when you're about to maneuver yourself in assistance to create a life that's good to live for both the child and the family. That story is not the only one. Government health care services have found large differences in the amount of care paid to care for their disabled children or other family members and the amount of care paid. Yesterday, on the TV 2 news, we saw a family who might have to send their daughter to the institution because the family is now getting reduced their offer from the municipality of Kristiansand. The social welfare pay scheme is the one of social services with most complaints. In 2008, 35 p.m. of the complaints. Out of 37 complaints, a whole of 21 cases were amended or removed by the county. It is a big problem that people get what they are entitled to only after having complained. This threatens legal certainty both for the recipient and for caregivers and caregivers. According to the Health Inspectorate's survey, 70 municipalities do not pay care at all. The Health Inspectorate’s report shows that those who have relatives who receive care pay have a great need for assistance. There are people with some serious disabilities, ranging from help to eating, drinking and moving, to social life and getting out. For many families, care pay will be what makes everyday life go around. They get an opportunity to work a little less and buy the services they can't reach themselves. According to the Social Services Act, it is particularly burdensome care work that qualifies for care pay. This means a lot to parents with care obligations for their own children. In Norway, in the Children’s Act, we have a basic principle that children should grow up with their parents if possible. This is also a human right. Wages and salaries can help to make this possible. The day after the funeral of the daughter of Natasha Pedersen, the dismissal of the care allowance came from the municipality. The Christian People's Party has proposed that recipients of care pay should keep it for three months after the child dies. The Christian People's Party has also proposed other measures to improve the rights of those receiving care pay. Taxes are paid on the scheme, but holiday pay, unemployment benefit and other rights are missing. It is in practice a social benefit and not a salary. The Soria Moria I Declaration states that the Government will strengthen the care pay system, but in the new declaration this has been changed to review the care pay system by the Government. I can't interpret this any other way than that the government has lowered ambitions, and it's creepy -- this despite the political will and a political desire to recognise the family-based care and make it possible to live at home. When various schemes such as care pay become so difficult to obtain, this reduces the possibility of taking responsibility for disabled children and others at home. So how does today’s system work? Municipalities have an obligation to have a pay scheme for persons who have particularly burdensome care, but the social services law does not, however, provide the individual with a similar legal requirement for care pay. Municipalities may award care allowances, but are not obliged by law to do so. So it's a judgement for the municipalities. This concerns both the allocation issue and the level of remuneration. Too many users feel deeply unfair that they do not pay care, and others do not, even though they may be in a similar situation. Some people even have to move to another municipality, or they do because the other municipality gives more than where they live. In this interview, I also want to be a little constructive and make some suggestions on what might be done, and ask the Council of State to consider this – if not today, then perhaps after the debate. I want to point to three suggestions: The first is that we have to clarify the same practice to the municipalities. This means that, in order to achieve greater equality in the practice of care pay throughout the country, municipalities need to pay more attention to people with special needs for care and lay down at the same level of pay as other municipalities. It may be interesting to hear the Council of State’s assessment of what can be achieved with a general invitation to the municipalities to do so. Of course, there is reason to fear that a general call for priority care pay will not have the effect that is necessary. Another grip that may then be relevant is a stronger rights fixation. It has been pointed out in the review by the Health Care Pay Authority that a stronger retention of rights will result in the legalisation of additional conditions for the award of care pay. This will include, inter alia: be able to impose a restriction on the persons or care relationships or situations in which entitlement to pay for care is granted. However, this could result in a stronger targeting of the scheme, but with less diversity. Today there are caregivers in all ages, from 0 to 100 years. The third thing I want to highlight is to get one order together. Here the Christian People's Party has recently promoted a proposal for a representative on measures for disabled children and their families. The position has recently been taken on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and this matter will be dealt with in the Stortinget on 9 March. One of the proposals being made is that the Government is following up the Strategy Plan for Families with Disabilities from 2005 and asking the Cooperation Government for a comprehensive scheme, which looks at a pooling of care, assistance and care allowances for families with children aged 0 to 18 with disabilities. It is therefore a proposal in the Stortinget. Today, these families have to apply to Nav and the municipalities for social assistance and pay for care. They must document the same information for both instances. Furthermore, some families receive long-term care when the child has a serious illness or health condition. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be an absolute assessment of the aggregation of these three arrangements. Finally, I would like to point out that care pay is determined by the municipalities. Many people experience the meeting with the municipalities as demanding because they feel that freedom of choice is being narrowed. At the heart of all services is the principle of individual organisation. It is the individual families who should be able to choose for themselves how to live their lives. However, when services are not provided or paid for, or you get very little in relation to the need, this option is undermined. Some people experience that they are deprived of the individual right to live as they choose. This is serious. Municipalities should remember that they should facilitate parental responsibility for their own children. My question to the Council of State today is: How will the Council of State improve and renew the care pay system so that it can function according to its intentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2948	I am aware that there are problematic aspects to the care pay system and its practice. This was also the background for the Ministry of Health and Health during the last government period asking the State Health Authority to pay particular attention to the scheme. The Ministry of Health and Health received feedback from the State Health Authority in November 2009. Together with the letter, the report "Hunting for Care – A Knowledge Summary" followed. This knowledge summary also includes previous surveys and projects initiated by the Ministry. Health supervision confirms that the care pay system appears unclear and contributes to reduced legal certainty for people with extensive care needs and their dependants. Today's legislation obliges all municipalities to have a care pay scheme. The interpellant refers to the Health Inspectorate's report, where in 70 of the country's municipalities no persons were registered with a care allowance. This is one of several findings that show that the allocation of care pay varies between municipalities. Nevertheless, it should be clarified that the example refers to data collection for two individual years, 1996 and 2007. It is not known whether found is an expression that no one applied for care pay in the 70 municipalities in these two years, or whether the applicants, if any, received a refusal. The size has joined the big picture of the future care services – Mestring, opportunities and meaning. The Nursing Communication suggests that we should further develop schemes to facilitate the combination of professional activities with care for children and nursing adults and the elderly. The 2015 care plan emphasises care efforts as a major socio-economic resource for those affected. As citizens, we must all be prepared for periods of time to assist relatives who are unable to master the tasks of daily life – together with the municipal care service. However, we should not have paid by the State or municipality for such normal family care. The government considers it essential to facilitate the combination of such care with participation in professional and social life. Some families experience what the wording of the law calls ‘specially burdensome care tasks’. According to the law, the municipality is to provide both the person in need of services and to relieve the burden on relatives. Often it will be a matter of finding an individualised offer in terms of the scope, type and organisation of municipal services. Social security benefits may belong as part of such solutions. The care pay scheme will then cover the tasks incurred by the dependants and replacing municipal services. So care pay is a scheme for the relatively few relatives who take on ‘specially burdensome care tasks’ over time. I find it in place with a rather long introduction, as there are a number of suggestions for simple solutions. Over the course of the 20 years of the care pay system, it has received political attention from the Stortinget and various governments. The case is complex, and it has been the subject of trials, monitoring and internal investigations. In the meantime, partly overlapping arrangements have been established in the area of public health, and there has been a strong commitment to the municipal care service. The representative Davøy wants to know what I want to do to improve and renew the care pay system, so that it can work after the intention. One of the problems, which is also pointed out by the Health Authority, is that the scheme seems to try to reconcile more interests and interests than can be reconciled in one scheme. As a result, we have problems getting equal and fair governance. In the government’s political platform, we say that we will ‘ review the care pay system’. In Stortingen's Question Time on 20 January this year, I confirmed that I am working on following this up. The government will reduce a public sample to review care benefits replacing municipal services and propose changes based on an overall assessment. This will include both care pay, care allowance and social assistance. Since we already have some knowledge of the subject matter, it will be a fast-working sample. I assume that different interests are heard along the way in the work of the sample. It is considered that proposals for changes to current arrangements should not increase the responsibility of the State and that financial responsibility for municipal tasks should not be transferred to the State. I will now come back to some of the things I said in the first part of the answer. It concerns the relationship between public responsibility and tasks on the one hand and voluntary action on the other. No one knows exactly how much voluntary effort is made for people with care needs due to ageing, illness or disability. But we know that the voluntary effort is great. From research teams, it is estimated to be close to the size of the municipal care service. The government will further develop the interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors and non-profit institutions serving households. They are important contributors to welfare production. Voluntary efforts by relatives shall remain essentially complementary to the municipal care service. This is what we normally call 'unpaid family care'. In the 2015 care plan, we have an important strategy to ensure a good partnership and to facilitate such voluntary care. It is about providing relief, information, guidance and good interaction on customised solutions. In this context, it is important that the service is organised against – and not out of – family and community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2982	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The knowledge summary provided by the Health Authority is important. I agree with the Council that care pay is very important – I do not remember exactly the words she used – and that it has come in terms of ‘especially burdensome care tasks’. It is precisely these families that I am calling for today – to give parents and families the opportunity for a child with a strong disability to live with their parents, if possible. In such cases, this will, of course, be a win-win situation, as the socio-economic – regardless of the arrangements made by parents – will be more reasonable than sending this child, who has a major need for help, into an institution. There was a new case, as I mentioned, on TV 2 yesterday, and it was also up today. It's a family that has a very strongly disabled daughter, who has now lost her care money, and is about to change to a care allowance in the municipality. That's where you'll be eaten with what I thought was about. seven hours a week. It is clear that when you have been in a situation where you have been able to be home with a severely disabled child without having to work, and you lose this scheme and get paid for just a few hours, the parents say that the possibility of being home with this girl is gone. Then they may have to start working to manage, while the best thing for this child will be the opportunity they have, and have had, to be home without working. I believe that this option must be available to the families in these cases. I hope that the Council of State might say a little more about that – if not parents in such a situation could have the right to receive a care allowance and choose the life they themselves want for themselves and for their severely disabled children. So that the Council of State will put down a sample. I think in a way that's good, because we're not getting anything else. On the other hand, I'm worried that the government didn't do better care, as promised in Soria Moria I. So now you're going to have a new sample -- you're going to have to review it. We have had reviews, including: we have the knowledge summary from the Health Authority. At the same time, I am happy that there will be a fast-working sample, and I feel that the Council of State will see the different grant schemes in the context. I ask the Council of State to confirm it, because I think it is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e2995	I fully agree with the interpellant that it is a strong wish that children should be able to live at home. You have to try to meet it as best you can, even though this is very difficult for someone. At the same time, care pay, as a municipal benefit, is part of the provision that the municipality can provide. But you have a range of tools that you can provide to those who are caring. It also makes the municipality choose to provide something different. In the case of care allowance, there is a temporary and fixed-term benefit, so that it has a different character from care pay. In addition, we know that many of those who receive these benefits also receive aid. Therefore, the interpellant also said in her first post that she believed that these arrangements had to be seen in the context. We also think it's right to see this in context. So there is no easy solution to how this is to be coordinated, whether it is to be coordinated, or how it is to be set up. That is why we have chosen to set up an external work sample – not an internal sample – to look at these benefits. So it's quite right, as was said, that there's a lot of information. There's also a lot of knowledge to build on, and of course we will. But it is important to have this work done, so that you can generally have predictability for all parties in a situation where you have particularly burdensome care tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3004	The interpellant addresses a topic that has been highlighted by the fact that the State Health Authority has revealed that the scheme is not functioning well enough, as well as the fact that it is still being announced that people believe they are not getting what they need. So it's okay that the interpellant deals with the matter, that we discuss what we're going to do, and what we're going to do to make this work better. That it's different practices from municipality to municipality, it seems quite incomprehensible to people, and that people have to move, it also seems very difficult to understand. The Council of State indicates that she has already notified a review of the scheme, and that that work is in progress, I think it is good. It is such that no one should have to wear, as the interpellant tells us. The load's big enough. That there are many municipalities that do not use the scheme has probably different reasons. I guess that doesn't mean the scheme isn't working. It could be that there's little understanding of it, that there's little knowledge, or that they're using other tools. It is ‘particularly burdensome care’ to trigger support. Not all care is, although in many cases it seems very heavy and demanding. However, it is important that the local authority apparatus is available with information that the offer exists, that it is used when it is intended, and not least that it captures those who need it. At least local economy should not be a ground for refusal, as is claimed in many places. Many of those concerned who want or have a service requirement are already in the health care of municipalities and receive services through home care, medical care or through the school health service. Therefore, the knowledge of the prescriber is also an important contribution to getting good arrangements and help to improve their everyday lives. As the Council of State said, much voluntary effort is being put into the care of relatives and friends today. This is a care that needs to be further developed and cared for. Without it, I don't think we can get to the goal, especially when we see the growing older population that is going to demand more and more help. It is therefore important to ensure that caregivers do not become caregivers, and that there is room for freedom and relief and space to act as more than just caregivers. I don't think anyone here wants a society where everything is to be weighed in money, and everything that's to be done for others, especially those we're close, is to be paid. But we have the change in society that we have, and we know that many are lonely, many are alone, many are without close family in the community, and many have busy family members in full-time work who cannot or do not want to take responsibility for their – or do not heel to do so. This is because the municipality has to take responsibility for the offer to be made, and many get the help. The day is long and demanding, even for those in need, and pay for care can be an opportunity to meet the needs beyond what domestic and other services provide. The provision of related knowledge and encouragement, the availability of good discharge places and the care of relatives, as I said earlier, is important. For most people, living at home is something of the most important and the very best. As politicians, we should facilitate this. The Councils of State referred to St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning, which states that it is necessary to further develop the arrangements we have, so that we can combine working on caring for nursing children, adults and the elderly. I believe that this is important in order to get everyday life together for the relatives. It's important for people to have a job to go to, but also to be able to combine it with caring for their loved ones. We're all going to experience that in periods of our lives we have to take extra care of our loved ones to make everyday life go on. That is the responsibility we have when we have a family, but it should not be expected, or we should have a bad conscience if we do not. But we have to make sure that the systems that are available work and that they catch up and help. Therefore, care pay is one of the things that can be a good tool. That's why I'm happy with what the Council of State says, that it needs to take a look now to see what can be done better. It's too bad routines that the Health Authority has notified. We're looking forward to the sample coming up with its recommendations, and maybe also the definition of what is burdensome care will lie there. Then people can do their everyday life more easily, and we can get a better society for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3027	Nursing has been debated countless times in this room. Many written and oral questions have been asked, there have been inter-pelling debates, and there have been proposals for representatives – all with the intention of improving the system that saw today's light over 25 years ago. But with respect to reporting, it's a long way to say that we have a system that works well and fair. In the municipal policy of one of the country's strongest working party bastions, for a number of years, I have made proposals on behalf of the Progress Party for increased appropriations for care pay and then to be voted down by the same red-green parties that currently have government power. This has been frustrating, and something in particular has been that the Centre Party has voted against, since in its time it was precisely this party that called for a care wage. But it was before they ended up in company with the Workers' Party. I feel that the Workers' Party is the big brake block to improve the care pay system. We also see the changes in the two Soria Moria statements of the Government that the force ratio changed in the election. In the first statement, the Government wanted to strengthen the care pay system, and in the next one, it would only be reviewed. In this room there has been confusion about who is responsible for the scheme. Ministers of Local Affairs, Health and Labour have pointed to each other on different occasions. If there is confusion here in the house, think of all those out there who are going to get involved in this youth: care allowance, care allowance, care allowance, assistance benefit, transitional benefit, holiday allowance, income, wages, pension income, pay step, tax, employer’s tax, pension money, care money, reduction of social security, health benefits, insurance, supplementary sickness benefit, right, social benefits, employee, contractee, number of hours, individual decision, good municipality, bad municipality. One might well ask himself whether this is a well-being or just a problem. For those who are in the process of taking particularly heavy care for one of their closest acquaintances who has become seriously ill or who have an increased need for assistance, it is almost inhumane to expect him to be able to get involved in all these situations. With large differences in scope and agreements, as well as a lack of municipal guidance skills in relation to complex legislation, it is not surprising that care pay is the area of the social chapter where there are most complaints to the county. When other public authorities, such as the tax and the Nav, are struggling to understand the law, Stortinget has a job to do. We cannot allow caregivers and their sick relatives to become health refugees in their own country, in search of a city or municipality that practises care pay legislation in the best possible way. Unfortunately, I have met some people over time who seem to believe that only public employees are able to provide good care and care. Private care providers are referred to as suspicious persons or institutions, which are unreasonably out of the Community's means. The ingenuity to avoid paying care allowances to individuals is great, for municipalities consider care pay to be a purely expenditure item. They argue that, through their limited individual decisions on assistance and necessary health care, they meet the requirements of the law. The truth is that the private care provided, in addition to public services and support schemes, is crucial in our society for those in need of help, care and care. The Government has now filed a case for Stortinget to provide workers with better opportunities to combine work with care. An important element here concerns the care of relatives in the terminal phase, which directly intervenes in the matter that we have dealt with earlier today on overall care at the end of life. The problem is that these changes only benefit workers. There are many who are not at work, or who stop working, just to take care of their neighbors. We also have a group of pensioners who take care of theirs, and these will be several of the years that come, according to a recently published study from the University of Oslo. The problem is that those older people who want to help and support, and who are just providing what might be called particularly burdensome care, get a curtailment in their social security if they are to be paid care. The alternative is to provide unpaid care and let the public take care of the rest. There is an increasing proportion of older people receiving unpaid help from relatives and others. The Progress Party has repeatedly called for improvements in the care pay system. We have made proposals to remove the curtailment of pensioners. We have wanted to extend the scheme to several groups, including: that dependants can provide care for their own parents or partners under illness, and we have proposed that care pay be converted into a government scheme with a normal amount, just to help bring Norway together into a health realm and ensure an equal and predictable system throughout the country. When I hear politicians and bureaucrats say that care pay is a public expenditure, I wish I had the opportunity to send them all on a small economic course with one theme, namely alternative cost. Norwegian society is facing enormous challenges in the future. Everyone is concerned about whether we get enough hands and skilled professionals to do the public health and care tasks. Let's start by improving the care pay system in line with the proposals of the Progress Party. We will then have reduced red tape, we will have many public hands released, and we will have a much better interaction with the private and absolutely necessary care. It is now time for the Government to show adequate care for care providers and to provide a good and fair compensation system for the work done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3055	The regulatory period has now come to an end. The President will propose that the meeting continue beyond the regulatory time until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3058	For many families with disabled children, care allowance is a necessary income for the care of the children. No one can replace the care that engaged parents give their children, and these parents make a huge effort. Recently, Nav has tightened up the practice of providing care to many of these parents. This has dramatic and heartbreaking consequences for families. Some of the families affected have received support from health services for intensive training of children with disabilities. These treatments require extensive training, which requires very close parental follow-up. In 2003, the Riksstrøgdeverket gave an opinion that care can be provided under Section 9-10 of the Law on Social Security for Parents with Children treated with the Doman method. It appears from the opinion that care can be provided both during stay at the Doman Institute and after discharge if children need continuous follow-up from one of the parents. Several parents have also received care allowance according to § 9-11. However, Nav is changing the practice of providing care to parents with children who are being treated with the Doman method. A letter from Nav to a parent states that a reassessment of the so-called Doman cases has been considered, suggesting that care is not granted unless the child has an unstable or progressive disease. For the families concerned, the withdrawal of care allowance will make it very difficult, and for several impossible, to continue the training they have set up in cooperation with health care. Parents therefore fear that the positive development they see in their children will stagnate or reverse, thus losing their ability to develop their abilities and potential. At the same time, families lose a source of income that allows them to care for their children daily. This hits the children and the families hard. These parents are referred to as applying for a care allowance, but it is highly uncertain whether they will be granted it and the aid may be limited. It seems unreasonable to be able to make internal changes in Nav practices that have such a serious impact on users’ rights and living conditions. I have raised this matter with former Minister of Labour Rigmor Aasrud, who informed that Nav was entitled to make these changes in practice for the grant of care allowance. However, it is fully possible for the Government to introduce rules ensuring that families who have already received these benefits are not affected by the change in practice. Families with disabled children and others should receive a comprehensive assistance from public welfare services. It is unacceptable for public authorities to introduce rules that impede an already demanding situation in life. The government is talking a lot about interactions in healthcare. It would have been nice if the Minister of Health and Health could practise a little interaction in the Government and talk to his fellow State Councillor Hanne Bjurstrøm about this matter. It should be possible for the Government to instruct Nav to continue the care of families who have already received this, so that they are not affected by the sudden change in practice. This will cost society little, but it will be enormously valuable for families with disabled children. If the government has intended to insist that these families seek care pay, I will challenge the Council of State to answer what she will do to ensure that these families are actually granted such a benefit. Otherwise, established training arrangements for children will fall away, thus weakening their chances of positive development. In addition, children will experience that their parents can no longer take care of them because they no longer have income to cover their expenses. The alternative may be housing, which may be a poorer and more expensive alternative. I challenge the Council of State to take a closer look at the situation of these families and make sure that they do not experience that society is making a difficult situation even more difficult. So finally, the Council of State said in its statement that she would set up an external sample to review care pay. Then she has to bring the users, the parents who know where the shoe is pressing. Those who experience everyday life with e.g. a highly disabled child, should and must be included in such a selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3079	The Christian People's Party raises an important issue when they point out that the State Health Authority has revealed that the care pay system is functioning badly, including the health insurance system. with many rejections of applications, and that the scheme is not practised in the same way. It was Anne Enger Lahnstein who was in charge of legalizing the right to care in the 1985 election campaign. There was a great deal of effort to get the majority of people involved in the law that came into force when a new law on social protection was passed in 1992. By law, it is a municipal obligation to have a care allowance as one of its sub-services in the care sector. There have been great differences between municipalities in both the number of hours allocated and the number of people who are allowed to participate in the scheme at all. When, in 70 municipalities, there is not a single person who receives a care allowance, I think it shows that the scheme does not work as intended. It is also a fact that the consideration given has been small in relation to the benefits for the caregiver and the savings that the private effort gives for the state and the municipality. Since 1992, pension funds have been given to those who have had extensive unpaid care in the home, but only a small proportion of those who have received such a pension are those who have taken care of the sick, the elderly and the disabled. In 2004, these last comprised around 6,000 persons out of a total of 306,000 who received pension funds for unpaid care. When the promise of new popular protection was made, a certain amount of care was given to everyone before 1992, except those who had unpaid care for the elderly, the sick and the disabled – an extra injustice, in my opinion. The centre party will have a review of the care pay scheme. We will strengthen the rights and help those who are well-informed to care for the elderly, the sick and the disabled in close relationships. Care pay must be a real choice for the individual, and not a consequence of the lack of public help. The central party primarily believes that the state should cover 50 pst. of the municipality's cost of care pay. We are pleased that the Government of the Minister of Health will now set up a fast-working public selection to go through the care scheme and look at those schemes in conjunction with other support schemes, such as care and assistance. With the major challenges facing us in the health service in relation to recruiting enough qualified staff in the future, good arrangements for voluntary work are important and appropriate, and especially for those who take on particularly demanding care tasks in the world. To the representative, Gåsvatn, I can inform you that in the progress party-led Bergen, at least before they left on a toll case, the Progress Party agreed to vote on several proposals from the Centre Party to strengthen the care pay system. In Bergen we have large urban variations in the offer: Relatively many get care pay, but the hour allocation is marked much less than that, for example. sheep in the neighbouring municipality of Fjell, which by the way is Right-rigged. The point is that such large differences are unfair to those who are involved. We have to change that, and I have great hopes for the red-green government – and not the Labour Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3094	We are constantly receiving enquiries from desperate relatives who want to contribute care and care to close relatives, so that they can live at home instead of going to an institution. In the last couple of weeks, parents of heavily nurturing children who lose their right to care stood up in the media, with the pressures they bring them, to illustrate how desperate their situation is and how meaningless today's arrangements are. The problems surrounding the various schemes of care, social assistance and care pay are well known, but there has not been any political will to make the necessary decisions to find a more predictable and state system of non-discrimination across the country and from which it may be possible to live. The Council of State has also said today that it is not appropriate to increase the state’s share, and that is regrettable. When relatives lose their entitlement to care allowance, care pay is a poor option, even in combination with social assistance. In the case of highly nurturing people, many rounds of applications and refusals are necessary to establish a satisfactory service offer, and they have stated that it is not necessarily the most tiring disabled child, but all the offices and people they have to deal with. The welfare pay scheme is a system full of embedded contradictions and can be characterised as a ‘sale mix’ of different principles and social policy arrangements. So it was ten years ago, and so it is today. Sintef Health prepared a report on developments between 2001 and 2006. The scheme is characterised as: ‘a greedy scheme that drives robbery of families with large care tasks The scheme is unforeseeable by the fact that families have to apply again every year and user involvement is weak’. [[...]] The provision of care pay is the individual provision of the Social Services Act chapter. 4 where there are most complaints, and a majority of complaints are actually supported. This shows that the municipalities practice this scheme very rigorously, and that it is difficult to achieve the rights that you should. In 2002, the Stortinget government asked for a review of the care pay system. The Directorate forwarded its inquiry to the Ministry in March 2003, discussing different solutions, including the use of binding or normed rates of care pay in municipalities and the issue of state sub-financing of the scheme. It also appeared that it was important that the State contributed to ensuring that care employees were not exploited and that much was said to change the framework conditions for the use of the scheme. The care pay scheme is also mentioned in two child care messages, St.meld. No 40 and Nos 45 for 2002–2003. It shows that there is a need to look at the aid and care pay system in the context and that the issue should be further addressed as part of further work on a comprehensive state review of welfare schemes. Hope is lit every time the Storting has taken up and agreed that these arrangements are not satisfactory. And it must be a sign of a lack of action when, after 20 years, no more complete practice of the scheme has been achieved. The Health Inspectorate's report that was presented is therefore not particularly surprising, and I see little reason to continue to address these questions, because there is actually not so much difference between what comes up from year to year. The schemes are incalculable, they are unfair, and they are not suitable to help people in this situation. The Labour and Social Committee now has two issues for consideration that deal with much of this issue. One is to be dealt with in Stortinget next Tuesday, as Laila Davøy mentioned. The Advance Party and the Christian People's Party then ask the Government to present a proposal on how to bring aid, care and care pay together into one state system to ensure the simplest and best possible legislation that can be offered in the same way across the country. What should be the start of finding a new system that works is to see these systems in context, with a clear objective of something happening now, and not just investigating. But the objective must be an equivalent system throughout the country. This will allow caregivers to focus on other things than applying for different support schemes. But unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence that the proposal is again being rejected next Tuesday, and the danger is that those who have stood up in the media now, i.e. the father of Pernille and the mother of Stian, and others who are in the same situation, will still have to struggle in a bureaucratic system to cope with everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3126	Thank you so much, everyone, for a great debate and a engaging debate in every way. I have the feeling that everyone who has spoken agrees that this is an incredibly important system for many, and that it should also be seen in the context of other support schemes. For caregivers, it is difficult to understand that two facilities provided, perhaps for the same child and family, are so different if they are organised or paid from Nav or from the municipalities. When, for many years, a family has received care allowance from Nav and almost overnight has to pay care from the municipality, it is difficult to understand that they are paid so low that they can no longer take care of the needs themselves. Then it is also wrong, because the child is absolutely as nurturing one day as the next. So I can understand that relatives and families don't fully understand these arrangements. This is what we are politicians who have to take responsibility to sort it out. When families themselves want to take care of them, I think they should be allowed to do so. Of course, others will choose other solutions. And I hope and believe that the Minister of Health also agrees that people must join in and facilitate what they themselves want. So I'm glad that the Council of State is at least going a step further today with this sample. I perceive that the Council of State also says that she wants to see the different arrangements in the context. There is therefore a proposal on the table from the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, which will be discussed on 9 March. It is precisely a matter of assessing an overall scheme, where you look at a combination of care allowance, social assistance and care pay. I agree with Giltun's representative, and I hope that this selection more than just going into and looking at how things work – we know a lot about that – maybe goes right on steps to see this in context and find solutions for these families, so that we can get a system that is satisfactory to everyone very quickly. And once again, I have to say that I am particularly concerned about the families that have severely disabled children and young people that they take responsibility for themselves. What I could finally imagine asking the Council of State for – if she can answer, then – is how long a fast-working sample has to work in order to make good proposals for action. And as I said, I mean, you don't have to figure out the situation. We know very well how it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3141	I understand very well that for relatives it is confusing with many schemes, but the Storting must relate to the arrangements adopted in Stortinget. And then you'll also know that these are schemes that have a different starting point, which are supposed to be of different duration, and that have different types of right fixing. It is the case with care pay that the municipality is obliged to have it, but can also offer other care services. So it's going to be an assessment. When looking at three such schemes in the context, it has to be done in a proper way, and the Minister of Labour said in his reply in the Questionnaire on 17 February that the case ‘ raises a number of questions of principle, legal and cost’. We see the need to look at the totality. When we go in and put down a public sample, it's just to do this. Had we only wanted to train one case, we wouldn't have put down a public sample to just look at the three schemes. But they're so different that it's not just to merge and make this work, because we first have to see how we really want these devices to be. So it's also like, as has been said by a lot of people, that it's especially for relatives of those who have an extra big need for care, is very challenging, and many of these can fall between several chairs with today's arrangements. That's why it's so important to look at what needs to be done to get a fairer and better order.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3148	The debate on substance is closed. So 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3154	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3190	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3198	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Lars Bjarne Tvete on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included on s. 34 in the vote, while proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3229	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a web portal where information on kindergarten and its contents is made readily available to parents, so that they can choose a kindergarten that is adapted to the needs of the child.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3244	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3284	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 3-6, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included on s. 31 in the vote, while the proposals No. 3-6 is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3312	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to await a further process of transferring tasks from ABM development to the National Library of Stortinget to have a thorough case in this regard’. [[State Archives, Library and Museum Centre]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3335	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with a concrete economic escalation plan related to infrastructure, collection management and professional follow-up to the reform work of Norwegian museums in the context of the Revised National Budget 2010’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3350	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to take action to establish an audiovisual museum.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3365	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come to Stortinget with concrete proposals for action to strengthen inter-ministerial coordination of museum policy and cultural memory policy.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3399	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3423	There is now a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3487	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3524	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 61 on the specialist health service, etc. Paragraph 2-1a of the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: regional health establishments shall ensure that persons with a permanent residence or a permanent residence within the health region are provided with specialist health services within and outside institutions, including 1st hospital services, 2nd medical laboratory services and radiological services, 3rd emergency medical emergency services, 4th medical emergency services, air ambulance services and ambulance services by car and, where appropriate, by boat, 5th multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse and other multidisciplinary specialised treatment, including facilities for the reception of drug abusers by virtue of the Social Services Act Sections 6-2 to 6 to 3, 6. transport for examination or treatment in the municipal and specialist health services and 7. transport of treatment personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3591	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to investigate the possibility associated with a test project using Naloxon nasal spray for the control of overdose deaths.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-02.ana.ud1947e3618	In Case No: No voting theme is available from 9 to 11.
