ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e67	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party’s Liaison Group to the representative Jenny Klinge from 8 December onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e85	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be held in Case No. 1 to 6 are taken as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e156	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that members of the Government have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines in response to contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines in response to contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e169	I chose to be constructive when the government presented its budget for the transport and communications sector. I thought the budget showed that the government had understood that there had to be a greater focus on transport and communication. And with the increase in the budget that the government provided, they are also approaching their own ambitions in the national transport plan. But it has to be added that one still does not meet its own NTP. I think this debate will reveal that there are many improvements for the government. I would like to thank the entire Committee for its effective and robust treatment of this budgetary position. The Committee has had more consultations than ever. This is a theme that engages, which means a lot to people's everyday lives. I would also like to say that the committee's position that is being discussed today, in my view, well illustrates the political image of transport policy in Norway today. As part of this debate, there are also some issues for which I am the spokesman. There are two proposals for representatives – a document 8 from the Progress Party on own transport supervision and a document 8 from the Right on independent roadside supervision. It also covers four matters relating to changes in the current annual budget of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Police and the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and the Ministry of the Church. In the case of these four propositions, the Committee joins the Government's proposal. When it comes to the two Document 8 proposals, the parties themselves will do their best for their vision, and I will also discuss the issue later in this article. Christian People's Party licenses 720 million. kr. in addition to the Government's proposal. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to fulfil the agreed national transport plan. That was the decision of the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party here shows real will to fulfill this fully. The most serious aspect of the budget presented is that the government is postponing the 2012 Route Plan. The Council of State does not yet know what time the timetable is in place. The promise of the ‘train revolution’ that the red-green politicians referred to it has now been postponed. What we know is that the train passengers who were told last winter to be patient until 2012 cannot rely on the information provided by the government. However, the most alarming thing is that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa is comfortable not to have a destination for the timetable. In reality, government is now directing one of the most important policy areas towards a moving goal. When the government is unprecise on the subtractor and the target is moving, it should do much to ensure that the result is good. The opposition has also asked what is required of the permissions in order for the timetable to come back on its tracks. There was no clear answer from the government. The railway works have been given the permissions they have requested in the last four years, after their own announcement. But the results are very poor, and one when you don't see them. In a debate with me in Tabloid in the autumn, State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa said, ‘Here is someone who hasn’t done his job.’ The question is, when you've got the money you've asked for, but not when they've promised, isn't there any reason to look at the organization of the sector? The Christian People's Party will therefore reorganize the Railway Agency, give them greater freedom, but also greater responsibility for progress in achieving the political objectives. We feel that we are not able to make good use of the resources that we are currently putting into the sector. We believe that such a model as one has, among other things. in aviation, will provide a better space for action and greater flexibility. What's this about? Well, the Railway Agency must be allowed to plan over time and implement them without the annual budgets hindering this. Today we see that projects are not implemented according to the plan, the related work is split up. An example, when we take Route Plan 2012, is that now the Railway Agency needs to get the means they need to implement the plans we need to get Route Plan 2012 – or at least the timetable – on the rails again. It is not just the central Austland area that is important for the Christian People's Party when it concerns the railway. For rail, increased maintenance and investment are important. I'm referring to bets from the Christian People's Party: it's the Ringerix Tunnel, where we're allowing 50 million. kr, Eidangertunnelen, which allows me 30 million. kr, and Mossetunnel 10 mill. kr. We also see 5 million. kr for scheduled work which is crucial for progress by rail Narvik-Tromsø. Also this winter the air problem in Bergen seems to be getting serious. The City Council takes this seriously, and the best example of that initiative is the Urban Railway, which is already a success. The Christian People's Party has paid 25 million in its budget. kr to Citybanen in Bergen, because the State has to take greater direct responsibility for the development of urban railways. One cannot take such a large lift only by means of toll holes. I would therefore like to refer to the Christian People's Party's proposal that we need our own collective strategy. In our proposal we say: ‘The government is asked to present a national collective plan with a concrete overall overview and concrete objectives for the development of the collective offer in Norway, where the various modes of transport have to be seen in context.’ We need concrete targets for bus, train, rail and maritime transport. We need targets for public transport. We need a better tool. We also need to see the transport modes in context. We know how the population developments in Oslo and Akershus are going forward – only that is a reason to see more holistically about this. Therefore, the country's responsibility towards both regional and local levels becomes crucial. That's why I think this is a very exciting proposal. Norway needs a holistic collective strategy. For the Christian People's Party, security on the road is our clear goal no. 1st@item: inlistbox That is why we have worked for several years for a private roadside inspection, and therefore we welcome the fact that the government is now finally making a proposal about it. But it is very disappointing that the government does not listen to the plurality of the government-emergent selection, which so clearly warns against the solution that the government has now chosen. It's like letting the goat take care of the oat sack when a light road directorate, responsible for road development and road maintenance, also oversees this sector. Select here a completely different principle from what you have done for aviation and the railway. It might therefore be interesting to hear the Council of State's explanation for this. The Christian People's Party increases the rights to racial protection as well as to secure roads with several middle parts. In the government's proposal, it is very far from the goal of NTP to build 750 km with middle parts. The government has said it will smell more asphalt than ever under the red-green. But with the increase in costs we have seen in recent years, we see that there will be less asphalt than we experienced in previous governments. I'll end by referring to a serious cut we see in the budget, and it's cut off on transportation research with over 20 pst. The transport sector has a significant responsibility to ensure climate reduction. On that basis, it is incomprehensible that a cutter in the transport research, which can give us good answers on how we can get to this kind of cut. That's why it's hard to understand just this. The Christian People's Party also has a proposal to grant 15 million. kr to a pilot project, which can develop the TT service to become more accurate. With this I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e214	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e219	The representative Hareide’s comment on the budget for transport was: ‘not so bad’ — which I interpret as very positive, considering that, after all, it comes from an opposition politician. In many areas I experience that the Christian People's Party has more in common with the Red-Green Government than the Dark Blue Right and Advance Party alternative. We are looking at aid, poverty reduction, restrictive alcohol policies, the environment and climate, the collective effort, where we have followed up the reward system of the Bondevik government by treble it, and thus transport. My question to the representative Hareide will therefore be: As the upcoming Christian People's Party leader, where does the representative think he gets the greatest impact on Christian People's Party policy – at the Red-Green Government or at the dark-blue Right and Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e228	What the representative, the Bjørnflaten, said is absolutely correct. When the budget was presented, I said this was not so bad, Kleppa. It was because I saw so clearly that there was a signal from the government that they wanted to meet their own objectives in the national transport plan. But then I also thought that the very setting we are debating today shows where the Christian People's Party stands. We are in the centre of Norwegian politics, and we get support from both the right and the left. The game that we're closest to when we see this setting in isolation, I feel like I'm the game right, where we are e.g. are some about taking some grip on this sector, getting to a real renewal. But that doesn't mean that we don't want to be some of the parts of the left-hand side that we're proposing. The Christian People's Party is not located either to the right or to the left in Norwegian politics, but in the centre – and there we are safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e233	I record the response to this embrace from the Workers' Party from the chairman of the Transport Committee. It still appears, at least for some of us, that something unclear about Hareide is actually satisfied with the budget, and what he might be satisfied with. But the key words used by the representative Hareide in his post were ‘improvement point’. We may have different views as to whether there is improvement in the budget, but what I think we can agree on is that at least there is an improvement in the Christian People's Party. There is, of course, an obvious improvement by the Christian People's Party in the 2011 draft budget of the party in relation to the party's own plan, in relation to the party's own national transport plan. What light has the Christian People's Party seen now, as they did not see when the Christian People's Party's alternative NTP was created in 2009? And how has the Christian People's Party now found money that they didn't have before, to bet both on the road and on the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e242	I thought the budget presented here by the Christian People's Party shows that we want to bet on rail and road. We gave tribute to the government, but we had greater ambitions for this sector than the government has, and we've shown it with our real priority. That's actually what I want to say, all the other parties in this room and the Progress Party. Where we had to make real priorities, as commentator Gunnar Stavrum said when the Progress Party laid out its budget, the Progress Party is on its own planet, and does not make real priorities. I also experience that with the setting that we see here today. There must be a real priority for all the parties. And I actually thought all the parties actually show it, except for the Progress Party, which comes with solutions that work beyond all reason and that are not realistic at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e247	From one planet back to the earth. I think Hareide has a good leadership of the committee, and I don't doubt that he can be a good leader of the Christian People's Party. We're looking forward to that. What I want to get answers to today is what has been said in the media lately, that Hareide is going to be more popular and less Christian, and that's how it is. But the question is what this means. Does that mean that Hareide will in some way become like the party "people most"? Is it that there is a different climate policy now, where climate adaptation and things like that – which we were demonstrating and accepted for the Church's Relief – become less important, where solidarity with the poor becomes less important, if Hareide is to cooperate with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e256	The President dares to recall that the line will deal with the matter on the agenda. The President expects the representative Hareide to take care to answer the question from a transport policy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e259	Thank you, Mr. President! This is an exciting challenge, so it's a pleasure to be allowed to answer it. I will not go in and give an analysis of the transport policy, whether it should become less or more Christian. But what I want to say is that there is no contradiction between running a Christian policy – to use an expression I really don't like so much – and pursuing a popular policy. But I think that, in a transport policy perspective, it is a matter of seeing us as priority no. 1 how we can reduce the number of deaths and damage to traffic. After all, it's a policy that matters to human dignity – which, I would say, has a Christian dimension, to use that expression – and it's something that people are concerned about, it's just to ensure it. That's why I think it should be job number. 1st@item: inlistbox But the representative misunderstands me if he thinks I want us to be less Christian, but yes, more popular.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e274	The budget debates so far this autumn in Stortinget have made it clear that we have two significant alternatives in Norwegian policy, a red-green that will expand the Norwegian model, and a dark blue that prioritizes privatisation and tax cuts. For the red-green majority, it's important to spend the big money on the big tasks, on those that need it the most, to secure work for everyone and to build up well-being. That's why transportation is also one of the big problems that we want to spend the big money on. A good infrastructure across the country is essential to ensure value creation and housing. A crossroads across the country shows that the big transport effort that we started when we took over in 2005 is starting to show results. Recently one of the jewels of Norwegian infrastructure was officially opened: the new Smålen bridge over Glomma, and with it 8 km by new motorway on the E18 in Østfold. On the Grey Island in Troms, the island people could now, in the autumn, use the new Lian tunnel, which ensures Norway's most racially vulnerable road. This is a pure red-green project after the villagers had been fighting for ten years to get money on their way. Earlier this year the Stortinget decided to build a new line on Rv. 7 between Sokna and Ørgenvika. 20 minutes less travel time gives great savings for heavy traffic, which stands for 16 pst. of the traffic on the route. We'll see the same picture on the track side. In September, the Committee had a pleasant visit to the construction work on the new Gevingåsen tunnel north of Trondheim, which is being opened for summer traffic. The project has made effective progress, precisely because we have secured large enough appropriations. In 2011, the new double track between Lysaker and Asker will open. That means that the 10 million passengers who use trains on this route will receive significantly better train provision than today. New fishing port with molo in stormy Grylfjord will be finished in 2011, after a new large allocation of the 2011 budget. We, the red-green majority, said we were to carry out the journey of time. We're about to do it. The traffic budget has increased by 50 pst. from 2005. The state Road Service is trading for 14 billion dollars. kr more in 2010 than they did in 2005. We have increased the budget for the Railway Agency by 67 pst. since we took over. We've tripled the investment. When we're done in 2011, the estimate is that we'll have opened 70 miles with a new highway and 27 kilometers with new double tracks. 50 stations have been upgraded. From 2006 to 2009, 262 kilometres by foot and by bicycle were arranged for walking and cycling along national roads. We are proud of the promise we have begun, but we are not satisfied. We still have major challenges, and we're impatient to move on. That's why I'm glad the government is securing a new 2.8 billion. kr for transport in 2011. It ensures the start-up of 20 new road projects. All are projects that have been fought over several years. This ensures the progress of a number of major and important rail projects, but most importantly: it provides a strong commitment to operation and maintenance. The Head of the Centre-Norway Region, Berit Brendskag Lied, cheered in the newspaper columns when this year's government budget became known. "This is what I am very pleased with." [[...]] She should know. With this budget, we stop the decay on the highways, and we're starting to get back on track. We want to pave the way for 1,000 new kilometers, which is a little further than Arne Sortevik's hometown in Bergen to work in Oslo and back home. We're going to start six new race protection projects and spend more than one billion dollars. kr to breed protection next year, an increase of almost 25 pst. In the last year's budget debate, we had a lot of undeserved criticism for not following up our race. That criticism has been muted this year. It is essential for the red-green majority to make train traffic more reliable and to increase operational stability. Therefore, in 2011, the government is also following up the railway budget commitment, which was launched in 2005. We will also increase the operational and maintenance budget next year and have already destroyed the NTP framework. We're maintaining the investment rate. We are to take responsibility for the problems experienced by train traffic under the red-green government, but we do not take responsibility for the heavy burden imposed on the railways under the Bondevik II regime, with budgets that were far less than half as large as the budget we are to adopt today, and with the reorganisation processes for which we are currently paying dearly, among other things. because you have completely lost your professional skills. The Red-Green majority is committed to a holistic approach to transport policy. Therefore, road safety is very important to us. An overall approach means focusing on the whole traffic system, on both road, road and road. Last year 212 people were killed on Norwegian roads. This is the lowest number of deaths since the mid-1950s. It shows that many important steps have been taken to secure the roads. But still there are 212 too many. Back there are broken families and friends. In compassion for them, we need to focus even more on safety on our roads. Maintenance effort of 580 million. kr on the road is an important road safety, as is the rasm billion. I'm also glad we found 20 million. kr extra, so that next year we will be built 25 kilometres with middle parts, which is an effective road safety measure on high-traffic roads. The more sad I get when I see the approach of the Progress Party and the Right to road safety. These two batches propose to abolish the average-speed measurement system, despite very positive experience. It is incredible to me that the two blue parties say no to a measure that will reduce the number of fatalities and hard injuries of 20-40 pst. I am pleased that the government clearly states that it will design a code that will ensure that all kids who take a school bus, right to a seat and seatbelt. Although there are many county councils that have made these demands in the school kiss bidding round, it is unsustainable that there are still unsecured kids carried. That is why I would like to stress that this is a matter where we need to get a code in place as soon as possible to ensure that all the kids on a school bus, except those who are transported by city bus. Although it is stated in the budget that requirements for seats and seat belts on school buses are to be put in place in connection with the award of new tenders and by the school year 2015/2016 at the latest, it must not mean that we are to wait that long. For the Workers' Party, this is an important matter, and we therefore want to support the process. Increasing activity in the northern seas leads to a greater need for monitoring. An important point of the government’s North Sea effort is the establishment of a comprehensive monitoring and warning system for the northern sea areas, known as BarentsWatch. That's why they mark 20 million. kr granted in 2011, the start of an important environmental project, through the establishment of the open part in Tromsø. Also in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the NTP escalating plan is followed, with more money for good fishing ports to detonate dangerous cuttings. An important measure is a further reduction in the coastal fee, making it more attractive to carry goods on the road rather than on the road. The Government has submitted a draft budget which implies a continuation of the transport commitment within a responsible financial framework. Unfortunately, the principle of accountability does not apply to the draft budgets of the two main opposition parties. With its 30-50 proposed OPS projects within 10 years, the Right adds to a credit card budget. The right-hand proposal would mean that the entire road budget would be suspended over time. This is not a responsible economic policy. In the United Kingdom and Sweden, we see that the Right Allies are now phased out the use of OPS, simply because they have tied up too much of the budgets and left too little room for action for today's politicians. The progress party will build 48-billion roads. kr more than the government in 2011. I very much agree with the response the committee chairman had to the line of the Progress Party. Not only is the borrowed money and borrowed spring the Progress Party is floating in, but the party will also completely detonate the capacity of the civil engineering sector with its budget proposal. And I think it's interesting to see that between the two parties that claim that they've now found each other, there's a gap of 59 billion. kr. Then I think Knut Arild Hareide's opinion on the presentation of the budget was more sober. He said, "Not so bad, Kleppa." Having said that, I have to say that I understand the need of the Right and the Advance Party to create budgets outside the budget and to finance their transport efforts with airy foreign budgets, funds and private investors. When the government budget is going to finance large tax cuts, there won't be much money left for the big tasks. With this, I recommend the Committee's settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e331	I registered that the representative was busy with the 50 miles between Oslo and Bergen. Then I can just remind you that from Lindesnes to Kirkenes it is ten times as far, so it may well have been asphalted far more than the miles the representative was busy with. But what I want to challenge is: The government with Trygve Bratteli, as Minister of Transport, decided in 1962 to build a 785 km motorway by 1980. With this government's historic and amazing bet, which the Bear Surface has just tried to make that, we'll still be missing 200 km. So, almost 40 years after building 785 km, you still need almost 200 km of motorway. Can the representative, Mr Bjørnflaten, say that this is historic and that it is a great effort? I also see it as a failure statement from a government that cannot even deliver in 2019 what you should have delivered 40 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e338	Yeah, it's a historic bet. There have been no previous governments who have spent more money on transportation than the sitting government. We've ever put forward the most ambitious national transport plan, where we're increasing the limits by 100 billion. kr. And we see the results, which I was in my post. We see the results in relation to new motorway openings in Eastfold, in relation to the race protection of roads that have been unsafe for years – for decades – we see it in relation to a formidable investment in port structure, and we see it in relation to the fact that after decades we upgrade and take responsibility for the railways. So this is a historical bet. We still have great ambitions. We still have a lot to do. We are still very impatient – but this is a historic commitment, and we take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e343	It was a bit of a showdown. I'm not sure that the entire population of Norway is as satisfied as the fraction itself, but we'll see about that. So the Bjørnface said that no government has presented a better transport budget. No, that's right. It's always been like this. All governments have put forward a better budget for transport than the previous government. However, it might be tempting to ask the Bjørnface about what is not in the proposition, namely that there is a total lack of modernisation and reform during this government. But I'm going to ask you something completely different, about the consequences of having roadside supervision, whether it's under the Road Directorate or it's independent. Because it's important to have a measure of what's good, so have a concrete minimum standard for what's good. That's what the government's against. I want to know why you don't want this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e352	Here were many statements that I have to comment on. Only in the case of historical investment: this government and this majority are the first to actually finance a national transport plan adopted by the Stortinget. It didn't happen during the Bondevik II government. You weren't close to fulfilling the NTP that was there. The first thing we did when we took over in 2005 was to overfinance the NTP. We have now presented a very ambitious NTP. We finance it and follow the escalation plan in connection with it. I could have also said a lot about modernisation, but we have many opportunities to discuss it beyond today. So in the case of roadside supervision: I noticed that the Right had a pretty good comment in connection with the Document 8 proposal to establish one transport establishment, which we are going to deal with later today. The Right raised concerns about red tape. It is precisely an important reason why we believe it is most appropriate to place roadside supervision under the Directorate-General for Roads. We then prevent a doubling of our skills, and we prevent unnecessary red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e363	I just want to briefly replicate that the Bondevik II government never produced its own national transport plan. They presented the Sem Declarations. And the Sem statement was met to the point and the point when it comes to the trajectory. It shows that there was a government that just stood for this. The paradox is that the Bondevik II government was more blighted by the increase in costs that we have now had. But I have another challenge for the representative, Bjørnflaten. I have experienced that she has been particularly busy with the infrastructure in North Norway, and has been waiting for the development that has come about infrastructure needs in the northern regions. That arrangement had to be in place before we could start a railway project between Narvik and Tromsø. I have experienced that the representative Bjørnflaten has been positive to this section of the train. Would she like to work for a realization?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e370	First of all, the Bondevik government never provided an NTP, but the Bondevik government took no responsibility for financing the NTP that was there. When we took over in 2005, it was the red-green government that took responsibility for financing the NTP that was adopted in 2005 – that is to say. So for a train bet in the north. I think the preliminary document presented, the North Sea investigation, Part 1, is very, very interesting and will just point to many different options in relation to trains. With the developments we see, not least in the mining sector, with extraction both on the North Swedish and North Finnish sides, and perhaps also in North Norway, we will need a different type of infrastructure development from what we have today. The increase in north-east passenger traffic will also lead to this. I think it is very positive that the Christian People's Party is so clear that you want trains in the north. We haven't concluded. But it's very, very interesting signals that we've been given, not least from the northern environments, which are much more up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e377	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e380	I've been waiting in suspense to hear if next year's budget is a historic budget for transport or not. I registered that the representative Bjørnflaten did not mention the word ‘historic’ in his post, but the reply stated that there was still a historical budget. The party of progress is often accused by the position of always being dissatisfied. I would like to state immediately that both the Advance Party and I are happy for every single metre of road, rail or other infrastructure that is either repaired or built out. The challenge is just, as we see it, that the small thing that comes is not so much to hit on the chest for and try to make as a big progress for the transport sector. Norway now has about a quarter of its population. 10,000 km of highway, approx. 44 000 km of county road and approx. 38 000 km municipal road. Then it is not very impressive that the government has built scarcely 150 km of highway, 40.2 km of four-field highway and 20.8 km of mid pull and arranged 70.2 km for walking and cycling every year since it took over in 2005. And for a government that says it's busy with the collective offer, it's probably not 5,4 km of collective field every year along the highways just something that you should shout very loudly about as a big bet. In addition, Norway has lost two additional seats on the NHO Competition Survey since 2008. Norway has never been worse off since the NHO started the barometer in 2005 — the same year as the red-green government took over the government offices. Perhaps someone will soon have to admit that there is no connection between what is being said and what is the actual result out in the real world – outside government offices and on the outside of the landfill. Of course, this debate will be about talking about how much money has been allocated. It doesn't help boasting that you've invested, and boasting of all the money you've put in, when reality clearly shows that the challenges don't get any less with the proposed appropriations. No, unfortunately I am convinced that the maturity will continue to increase, and the investments, which are now approx. Three billion. kr lower than provided for in the treatment of the national transport plan, is also likely to continue to increase at the current rate. The Progress Party proposes to increase the appropriations for the national roads by 21.7 billion. kr. At the same time, we are proposing 7.2 billion. kr more to the counties and 1,2 billion. extra kr for racial protection. We do this because we believe that the roads are essential for people – and businesses – to have the opportunity to live and do business throughout the country. In fact, it is about the fish coming from, for example: Hitra or Frøya – or maybe Vikna, for that matter – should get to the markets quickly, because, as most people in this room know: it is too few other products that time is as important as it is for a dead salmon, to get this salmon to the markets. It is also important for the transport of timber, for example: in my home country West-Telemark, which has approx. 50 pst. higher transport costs than would have been the case for the same transport in Westfold, because the roads are in the process of disintegrating or have already done so. There are often queues, corks and chaos, as most people experience when meeting the wall of cars and trailers on their way down to the continent while queueing from Asker to Oslo in rush traffic, because we have not been able to get on bypass roads or have built up the road network, which would mean great savings for business, and not least for the environment in terms of reduced emissions from cars and trailers that stand and bump and do not emerge. These were just a few examples; I could ram a lot more people like the business community and the population meet every single day across the country – from Lindesnes in the south to the churches in the north. That is why the Progress Party believes that action must be taken. It is time to ‘get your finger out’, make sure to put in the high gear and start developing a real, modern and efficient quadruple road network between and around the largest cities in our country and rust up the rest of the road network. In addition, we need to ensure that the decay of the road network is stopped, so that future generations will not take on what will be perceived as a ribbed bankruptcy dwelling. Many people say that we have to bet on road safety, and the government boasts that it will spend more than 500 million. on road safety measures. Let me immediately underline: every penny spent on the right road safety measures brings enormous savings in the future. That's very good. But the government's proposal to build 22 km of pitfalls in 2011, which was increased to 33 km through the budgetary procedure here in Stortinget, is actually under one-sixth of what Sweden has set up to build in 2011. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the allocation to midpointers by an additional 750 million. To show that zero vision is taken seriously, and to take action that would really mean a difference and would contribute to much less serious damage and killed in traffic on our roads. We have now started with the first phase of the emergency network. There has been a difficult introduction, with a number of delays and problems. It is very good for the emergency staff that the network is now in the process of being put into service. It is important both for rescue teams to be able to do the best possible job at the point of damage and in the event of an accident. Nevertheless, we are very concerned, and we have repeatedly mentioned the sharp increase in the costs of implementing the new emergency network for the various emergency situations. We therefore assume that the government will have a system in place to compensate for the sharp increase in emergency situations. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party proposes its own urban package of 10.22 billion. kr to the largest urban areas. In addition, we extend the reward scheme to the other urban areas by 511 million. kr, and the extended scheme shall cover far more cities than those included in the current scheme. We also believe that the reward scheme should be precisely that: a reward scheme and not a scheme for those who introduce restrictive measures in their city. We also believe that a well-developed offer where we use carrots is far better than the government's desire to use whips to force people into public transport. As far as the railways are concerned, we are proposing a sharp increase in investment, at 6.8 billion. kr, so that we can start starting and expanding important railway projects already in 2011, including: electrification of the Meråkerbahn – and we must continue to support the development of double tracks on the ICE triangle Skien, Halden and Lillehammer. We need to do this, among other things. by initiating the deployment of the Eidanger thoroughfare, where already in 2011 it will be ready to set foot in the ground. The government parties in Telemark promised to start in 2005 at the latest in 2007 if there was a red-green majority at Stortinget. Now we are in 2010, soon in 2011, and still there is no money to do anything about this project, which many have once been promised by many different governments. In addition to this, a solution to the problems in the Drangs Valley in Rogaland, which has been working for a long time, needs to be found. It is also important that funds are put in place to accelerate the development of Oslo-Ski. We need to get Oslo-Ski in place. It is an important part of the whole network and the infrastructure of the railway. It should be accelerated and increased at a much higher rate than what is being done today. A great scepticism has also emerged for a long time for the outsourcing of railway lines by the government. The Gjøvik track has now been exposed to competition for five years and indicates fully that it has worked according to its intention. Although the infrastructure still has major shortcomings, the competitive outsourcing has given 40 psts. multiple departures, ensuring that passenger numbers have increased and that punctuality has been good, all of which are satisfied. It is therefore strange that the government continues to contest more competition. A small paradox in this regard is that when problems were experienced on the lines yesterday, at least some train passengers knew why the NSB needed competition. Despite the promises and the introduction of guarantee schemes, yesterday passengers experienced being thrown by the train. They got no information, and finally, when more than one hour had passed, they finally got hold of the NSB customer service. From there was the message that they got back to Oslo S, because it was among other things. would not be set up for alternative transport from Lysaker, where passengers were thrown by the train. If this is the way the monopoly company is going to continue to treat its customers, despite promises of improvement, I really think it's time for some real competition, so that the NSB also realizes that it's actually the customers you live with – which I thought was a matter of course for most companies, also for the state NSB. The Party shall act on infrastructure and shall follow up its own proposals for the national transport plan. Good transport solutions are of particular importance to Norway, a sparsely populated nation with large distances. We have ambitions that Norway will have the best infrastructure across Europe, and not like today where Norway holds one of the bottom positions. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have no reason to be proud of the government's comprehensive transport policy. I refer to the Progress Party and the proposals from the Right and the proposals from the Progress Party alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e423	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e428	What we all know is that driver behavior takes a lot of life and is a far higher safety risk on the roads than the road standard. Therefore, there is reason to ask the representative Hoksrud why the Progress Party only focuses on the road, and even goes for higher speed and is critical of average measurements. As far as I've heard, the Progress Party has left that position, but in the past you were against the UP, someone wanted alcohol at gas stations, etc. What I would like to sum up with and ask is: does the Progress Party really have a conscience to have so little focus on driving behaviour and so much focus on everything else when you know that it's actually the driving behaviour, or lack of it, that takes life in traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e435	Firstly, I think it is important to bear in mind that the Progress Party actually takes the driving behaviour seriously. Indeed, we have proposals that are being discussed today, that go on with driving training – how it is and whether it can be better. Unfortunately, the government is not willing to participate in this proposal, which would actually mean mass compared to that with driver training. In addition, we know that there have been reports that are clear and clear, both in Norway and Sweden, demonstrating that the road is a significant reason why accidents actually happen. With regard to this at higher speed, it is that both Sweden and Denmark have set their speed limits. I don't think the politicians and the road authorities in Sweden and Denmark do it because they're not happy with their inhabitants, I think they are, in fact, doing it because it's completely sound and possible to do. In Norway, Swegg Trafikk in Østfold has said that they want to have 120 km/h on the E6, and the State Road Service has proposed 110 km/h on the motorway network in Norway, to which the government has refused. I think it's completely different things that lie behind. There are policies behind it, and not the possibilities to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e442	I think we have to give Hoksrud the opportunity to answer in more detail about this with driver responsibility. Still, one sees that the Progress Party is out saying that it is the road that is causing, and if one is going to have zero vision, just like all the roads, must be on top of Norway. But then the fact is that 2/3 of the accidents are linked to driving ability – 27 pst. 50 pst. up towards high speed. In the latter case, the Progress Party does not want to help drivers comply with the traffic rules. They don't want traffic measurements between the photo boxes, for example. That means that the policy of the Progress Party does not grasp what actually costs life. And then finally something funny: SV means that the price of bottled water in Norway is too high, while the Progress Party thinks that the petrol price is too high. Why won't the Progress Party join and lower the price of bottled water?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e449	So, first of all, the State Road Administration has actually presented a report – which I have up here, and which I may have to bring to the representative of Langeland afterwards – that demonstrates that building a four-field highway with a middle part will reduce the number of fatalities in traffic by 80-90 pst. So building the middle parts reduces the accidents by 60-70 pst. Unfortunately, there is now a government that will not take the measures that cost some money, but you will look at all other measures that do not cost money. That's what the proposal from the representatives of Langeland and the red-green government is, instead of actually doing something that you know really reduces traffic accidents, and that works. If you had used 5 billion. In order to build middle parts of the 500 worst-accident routes, the number of people killed by 80 to 100 would be reduced every year. The government doesn't want to be in it. They're supposed to be building a little, like, 33 km. The Progress Party has proposed to allocate 750 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. It would really mean something to road safety. That's what the Progress Party is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e454	The Party of Progress is opposed to average measurements and is also negatively opposed to automatic traffic control, and they will have higher speeds on the roads. I have just been to Sweden, where the Swedish Transport Agency and the investigations they point to say that lowering speed is actually one of the most important things to prevent accidents, so that they look at Norway for lower speeds. I assume that bad behaviour in traffic is also something that the Progress Party recognises as one of the major dangers of creating accidents. Then I will challenge the representative Hoksrud to say why you are so negative to average measurements and automatic traffic control, when it makes people drive at lower speeds, and there are fewer accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e463	I would have liked to have brought both the representative Sjelmo Nordås and the representative Langeland down to Bamble, so we can take a small study on how it works with distance automatic traffic control. There is no positive action. What you see is a lot of strange – and wild – driving, because people get scared to drive too fast. In fact, it creates quite a number of road-hazardous situations. I get feedback about it almost daily, at least weekly, from people who are driving on the road, and who are frustrated. People in the state road service, who are responsible for this, dare not say it publicly, but when you do not talk in public, they say that this has been a measure that does not function properly. When you see that more than one million have passed here from January to September, and there are five pieces that have lost their mark on the same route, it clearly shows that now the technology has actually come much further; you are far ahead of it with distance-wise ATK. Then I think there are other measures that are much better, and that should have been done instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e468	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e471	The expectations created by this government in connection with the NTP roll-out were significant. But unfortunately, the state is that the government is now 2.3 billion. kr after the allocation side. You can't improve the road standard. You're right to claim that you're stopping the decay, but you're left to see it. There is also a very inconspicuous and uncertain situation on the railways, not least for users. But the most worrying thing is that unfortunately the government does not renew its policy on transport. It is actually bare of ideas – and actions – about how we can modernise. We in the Right actually have bigger ambitions than just stopping the decay. We will bet on modern transport solutions. We know that the big problems have to be solved using new and modern tools. But the reality is still there. Large distances and scattered settlements make us dependent on good transport solutions. Good mobility of persons and goods transport is the key to growth in a society. In particular, an efficient infrastructure is essential for companies competing in an international market and therefore particularly vulnerable to distorting transport costs. However, good urban accessibility is also important in order to ensure effective everyday life and environmental considerations. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Right has proposed that road investment should be increased by a total of 1 billion. kr in relation to the government's proposal. The right has gone to battle against traffic death. The fight requires, for example: a much stronger investment in pitfalls than the government provides. The government granted enough for 2010 and 2011 to 33 km of pitfalls, and it is puzzled when the target is 250 km for the four-year period and 750 km for the ten-year period. With the Right Alternative Budget, we maintain the objective that we agreed in the NTP. The number of meeting accidents on Norwegian roads could be significantly reduced, and probably many lives were saved. In particular, it is alarming that the government has not prioritised a single central part project on one of Norway’s most dangerous sections, namely E39 through Rogaland and Hordaland, where there have been very many tragic accidents in recent years. Therefore, in our budget option, the right-hand road billion is divided by 600 million. kr for road safety measures and midpoints on national roads and 200 mill. kr in a roadside entry for the county roads. We have seen more examples of the fact that the State Road Service has not had the resources to meet the policy objectives of more comprehensive and route-based plans, not least to provide new solutions such as OPS. That is why the Right proposes 200 million. kr for forced planning and design. In the right, there is a clear need for a stronger commitment to public transport in large cities in order to reduce car use and increase the collective share. We think it is good that the government is continuing the very successful reward scheme from Bondevik II, but we are critical that the government will now change the premiums in the scheme, from an effective incentive scheme for the metropolitan regions to become an instrument for almost forcing cities to impose a rush-time charge, and in that way almost a penalty for those who choose other solutions to reduce car use. In order to contribute to further good incentives for the reduction of car traffic in major cities, the Right also wants the government budget to secure 3 billion in the long term. kr in a separate budget line for investment in separate collective and urban tracks. This is important for the development of a sustainable transport network in major cities. In the Right, we believe in incentive schemes. That's why we're proposing to grant 100 million. DKr to a new reward scheme for so-called intermodal or smart focal points to stimulate more collective use, and we propose 50 million. to a reward scheme to promote urban cycling. There is also a large maintenance run on the road and track that makes it absolutely necessary to implement new and untraditional instruments. Therefore, the right considers it necessary to establish a separate maintenance fund for the purpose of transport in order to bring it into line. So we're proposing 50 billion. kr to that fund and its return shall be in addition to ordinary appropriations. This would give us a return of 2.5 billion for next year. SEK, of which 500 million. kr to the railway. In the right, we're dedicated to finding new solutions. In many countries it is natural to compare with, the good examples we can learn from. If the government could freshen up a little from their private allergy, it would have been possible to get to very much more and much faster, both in terms of road and rail. Right-wing wants, like a number of industry actors, to use more OPS organisation in Norway, but unfortunately the government does not want this. We want it to be added to launch five OPS projects next year. The experience gained from the first OPS projects completed is so good that the model should be continued on five appropriate routes: E39 south of Bergen, E18 south of the Swedish border, E6 through Uppland and South Trendelag, E6 west of Alta, rv. 2 towards the Swedish border. We will also be able to assess the OPS solution as appropriate on the Eidanger and the Meråker Railway and for the City Ship Tunnel. Together with the budgetary matter lies the matter of setting up road and road traffic supervision. Here's a case where the government is opposed to a government-designated sample. In particular, all organisations have also stated the same thing, including we from the opposition in our well-intentioned proposal – once again an example of the fact that it is completely silent on the reform front of this government. It is therefore decided to follow the minority of the NOU proposal, which consisted of the director’s successor and the director of TØI, who is closely related both to the Directorate of Road and to the Ministry of Transport, and which is therefore a minority who would place road safety in the Directorate of Road. Is this credible? It can hardly be said to be. So this eye-catching statement in the state budget that an oversight organised within the Road Directorate will only cost between 5 and 10 million. kr, while independent roadside supervision will cost between 50 and 100 million. NOK – so ten times more. Is this a credible presentation? No, here it's probably completely different relationships than the economy that's in swing. The problems are going to be the same. When it comes to rail, aviation, coastal shipping and ICT, I refer to my co-representatives in the Right fraction. However, I would like to mention a couple of relationships. The first concerns the investigation of high-speed rail in Norway. This is an initiative and work initiated by a broad majority of the Stortinget, and it is particularly important that the decision and order of the Stortinget are followed up and not changed on the road through the ministry, through the Railway Agency and to the project management. I am aware that the Ministry has drawn up a very comprehensive mandate for the work, that the project group is managed by the Railway Agency, and that of course this premises for the tender documents. But it is the Council of State and the Department that are responsible to Stortinget, and I expect Stortinget's intention to be followed up in the work. There have been recent criticisms both against the Railway Agency and the project management. I will not comment on it, but limit myself to clarify once again that such a large project with such a clear and broad political mandate requires that the decision of the Storting should be followed up to the point. Finally, I would like to raise a completely different matter, which is under a completely different state council, namely the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. In the Right, we are very disappointed that the government is once again breaking its promises in relation to the lifting of U-864, the war wrench of 67 tons of mercury, which is outside of Fedje. By June at the latest, the Council of State of this Parliament, and many of her co-representatives in this Chamber, stated that they should return with a status and progress for the lifting work in the 2011 State Budget. Yes, it was assumed that this would happen, if you go in and read both the notes and the speeches from this pulpit. In the state budget, it says – and it’s very small, so I can refer to it – that the allocation for the management of U-864 is reduced from 630 to 50 million. crowns to cover the costs of further investigations. In other words, nothing. And so the order from the government parts turned out to be zero value. Worse, the coastal population still has to live in uncertainty on a matter where the government does not follow up on what they promise. But the government parties can correct this impression here today and vote for the opposition's proposal to get a quick timetable. If they don't, it can only be interpreted there that the case has ended up in the mill bag. I am addressing the proposal that has been put forward by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e509	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e514	OPS funding is Right Mantra for the development of transport projects. This form of funding involves borrowing-funded expenditure in addition to the ordinary government budget appropriations. The repayment of these loans must be covered by future appropriations. Next year's budget will have to allocate a total of 443 million. NOK to this. The list of the number of OPS projects mentioned in the setting, which the Right will implement, is long, while I would believe that the Right is still concerned with pursuing a responsible policy within the Action Rule. In this context, it is interesting to know whether the Right knows how much money or how much of the budgets will be committed in the future, for example. in 2024, compared with the 22 projects they will finance in the coming years in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e522	I am very pleased with that question, because this is a matter for which we are burning, as the representative said. It is absolutely right that the OPS projects will commit funds to the State budget in the future. One of the reasons why we choose this solution is precisely because we want to get a stronger bet on the way forward. This will tie up the state budget on the road. In recent years, the share of the State budget has fallen sharply and is now down to 2pst. We need to find tools that allow us to reverse this trend, and we do that, among other things. with OPS. It's not special that we finance public investment with loans. It does the county councils, it does the municipalities, and it does public companies all over the country. That we can do it more on the road as well, I think it's just a consequence of the policy we've now seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e529	This government stands still, says Halleraker, and comes with various ideological steps to resolve it. There are several approaches, but the only approach that sounds to be important to the Right is: competition launching, competition launching, competition launching. In 2003 Halleraker sat with the government. He then put out competitions, among others. road operation and maintenance. A few years later, Bondevik II and the Right boasted that they had saved half a billion dollars on it. Now I'm also a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee. That committee is very concerned about price developments when it comes to operation and road maintenance, because one has had a price increase of 80-100 pst. with the grip that Right did. Then my question becomes to Halleraker: Is the Right also concerned about this, or is it still only competitive exposure as a liability?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e538	This question gives me the opportunity to boast by the government – it should be the only time today – and it is because they have gone into this case about the competitive outsourcing of the extension part of the state road system and given the answer that it recommends that they should be as it is, organized through Mesta. So this number is 580 million. kr. This is a figure that we found in a speech that former Minister of Transport gave to LO State. So we're assuming that that's right. So it's absolutely right that I think we actually get more money left, we get more efficient solutions, society altogether serves that we have competition, and we get faster solutions. That's why we're for it. There's no ideological mantra for us. It is simply an improvement in efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e547	I want a little bit back to OPS funding. I register that the Right has picked up a lot of its inspiration from the sister party Moderatena in Sweden when it comes to, among other things. (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) It is clear that the Swedish and Norwegian Right have two widely differing views. The Norwegian Right will clearly make use of OPS on a large scale. Minister of Finance Anders Borg has characterized OPS in a way that makes me say that he believes quite clearly that borrowing money at significantly more expensive interest rates, which makes the cost of increasing infrastructure, is a little wise. He characterizes it as "misguided" and doesn't think it's a good idea to manipulate the budget. What makes the Right in Norway think that there is a wise solution? Is Borg in error, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e554	One of the things that the Central Party has had to bite into in this government is precisely the support they gave to OPS funding earlier, and we also recognize the outlines of when Kleppa gets an opinion independent of Johnsen. In the case of Anders Borg and Swedish politics, I will be very careful to defend it in a line change in the Norwegian big business. But I would like to remind the representative that OPS is not just about funding. It is also highly concerned with the organisation and detection of risks. It's about responsibility to solve the problem in a long and broad perspective. Thus, there are many elements that provide synergies that have been identified in the TØI report, which have meant that both the State Road Service and the Railway Agency and many others will have more OPS – just not this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e561	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e564	Back to this by standing still, as Halleraker was inside. NSB director Steinar Nilsen said during the opening of the Paradise Station that now one could drive from Hell to Paradise, or vice versa. When one listens to the Right and the Advance Party, one can wonder if they were actually at Paradise station when they themselves put in government. Anyway, it's very clear that they think this government is at Hell Station. It's very clear how they're going down on the work this government is doing. So we have – in order to address a climate-related measure – quadruple rail investment from the time when Halleraker and Right were in position. It should be enough for most people and for the Right to understand that they should have a slightly lower cigarette feed than what they have in today's debate, where it looks like one has money for the most part. Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has done well for the government's total policy in relation to today's budget, and I support it. But I want to focus more on some concrete things, not least on what is now happening in Cancún in relation to the opportunities we have for the transport sector to do something about the climate and to be more climate-friendly – where this government is doing a lot. It was also the starting point for the question of the Hareide on climate. Greenhouse gas emissions within the transport sector are high, and the potential to do something about this is high. I'd like to take some examples from Rogaland, my own state, which illustrates how the government is investing. A year ago we opened the double track Sandnes – Stavanger. It was a huge investment that led to a traffic growth, leading to fewer cars. It means reduced greenhouse gas emissions. In the past, we have opened the Ganddal freight terminal, which facilitates increased transport of goods by rail, and not by road, and then we keep on crossing tracks on the Sørlandsbanen, which means that more people can get on the railway and thus less need to drive on the roads by train. And then from this government, we've also allowed $6 million in the past. kr for urban runway planning, and in 2011 we have half a million permits. kr for the planning of the city track on the North Jären. As a last element in these climate-related examples, the government has also allowed 35 million dollars. kr to the reward scheme at Nord-Jären. This means that local politicians have a country that has made it possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in this urban area. But I'm going to say that the state's initiative is not as well taken care of locally as they should be. It probably also has to do with the political everyday life that one has in my country and in North-Jearn in relation to who controls. It's very often the Progress Party and the Right and other parties that rule. They're not there to do anything for greenhouse gas emissions locally. In my country, of course, there are also challenges. We have Risavika port, which both the Minister of Coast and the Minister of Transport have visited, and which is a huge, difficult port with great possibilities, but they do not have a railway. There is something SV will work for – that one should connect to Ganddal station. Then we have, as also the Progress Party was inside, the Drangsdalen, where the train goes for 20 km / h. Then we get to him, I think, and I hope there's a solution there in the high-speed arrangement that is now being implemented. I'm very pleased that the Council of State was very quick to start speeding. So after very few months in the chair, we were planning this arrangement. Now we're going to spend 50 million. kr to it. So there's going to be a honeymoon for the Council of State. NTP and Soria Moria II have anchored what the Council of State did. Soria Moria II says that we should sort out high-speed trains with construction as a goal. As Right was about: From Right to SV, there have been several times over this. The premises have been very clear. One premise is that when a builds something that can be included in a future high-speed network, it should be built to 250 km plus, so that one can reduce travel time. I don't demand world record – seen in China, it says in VG, at 486 km/h – on hams in Norway. Actually, VG is wrong, because the world record is 574 km/h, as seen by Alstom in France. That's not the speed I'm after, but the premise from Stortinget is definitely 250 km plus. That's said a lot of times. That's why an Oslo–Ski builds at 250 km plus. So it's also so that the majority have been very clear that it's not just the big cities that should be occupied. We should use high-speed trains to build the country, develop the districts, where we also have a station frequency that makes this possible. It's got the big numbers fixed several times. It is also the case that the Stortinget has been very concerned that there is a special need to work with multi-purpose options, multi-purpose tracks, which mix traffic – lightning, regional trains and freight traffic. It has been a bit turbulent about this arrangement in the last few days. I now have full confidence that the rental at the Railway Agency, the distribution office and the transport minister now follow the clear advice and clear instructions that Stortinget has brought. I have seen that the Minister for Transport has started the cleaning work here, and that is good. This will be good in the end. There's a lot going on in the city areas. Last year, the red-green government failed to let us deliver any tools to the cities – they were not allowed to do so and were not allowed to do so. This year, 12 cities have been offered a range of measures that they can take in their urban areas. But what do we hear? What do we hear from Oslo, what do we hear from Bergen: No, we don't want to do it and we don't want to do it – in a situation where the Association of Asthma and Allergy, the Federation of Nature Conservation and the health authorities actually say that something has to be done here. This goes beyond people's health. So then put the Right Party and Advance Party bureaucrats around and only two of their hands and hope it goes over. It's, with respect, a cowardly policy. There is no reason to deal with the pollution problem, because drivers can get excited. But then one at the same time accepts that people die in the worst case of the pollution that happens. There will be lots of queues on the roads in Norway next year too – lots of queues in cities, for example, there is the Right and the Progress Party that controls, and they are alive to do something about the traffic. They don't support NHO. They don't support all those who think they should reduce car traffic in cities because of greenhouse gas emissions, but also because of the intrusion of the NHO. Right hand side and forward side are sweeping out. They're not in on this. But there will be queues of other places too, because this government is building the country. It'll be cool because people have to stand and wait for the maintenance work on the roads. They have to wait for the pavement on the road. They must stand and wait for the racial protection that is being seen in the country. Lots of cows will be. I'm sure the Progress Party will be able to get some of the votes for them, too, because they're standing above all this road construction. Universal design has been brought to the fore within the road area, for example: But I see that we have a lot of challenges there, not least within the railway area when it comes to universal design. We've started to grab hold of it, but we're not going well enough, but we're going to focus on this. In the end, I take note of a matter that concerns Diffi, the Directorate of Administration and ICT, of which the majority of the Stortinget is busy, not necessarily all parties, but we who represent the majority are concerned that one should pursue the policy set out in the Action Plan on the Environment and Social Responsibility. So the state spends 307 billion. kr in purchases. It is a significant factor of power if one bases the principle of sustainability and climate-friendly acquisitions. The plan is now to be revised, but I want to ask the government, when represented by the Council of State, to tighten up in this area so that the government will go ahead when it comes to the purchase of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e603	From 250 km plus to real-life policy: rail and the environment may be the two priority areas chosen by SV. In this government, SV has been in office since 2005. Still, the electrification of Meråkerbanen, Trønderbanen and Nordlandsbanen remains. In this year's budget, it is also not a priority. An electrification would mean far more efficient paths and, not least, much more environmentally friendly. How does the SV representative feel about sitting in a government where he does not get an impact on his main policy areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e608	If the Progress Party ever came into government, which I do not hope, they will go through the same training period that SV has now undergone for five years. That's demanding, and that leads one actually to say no to something and yes to something else. Sometimes you also have to say yes to something you are against. I've done that multiple times. It's boring, but it's part of being part of the power. This is what Fredriksen will learn if he ever comes into position. Just to rip it off, because Fredriksen wants to go back to real politics, as he says: So it was like the times the Progress Party negotiated with the Bondevik II government on budget, they managed to add an amazing $1 million in three budgets. kr for road maintenance. There's something about who has "goods" when they're in government, and who doesn't have it when they have power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e615	Now, it is perhaps the representative of Langeland who has the largest cigarette-taking exercise, and this is also seen as a significant potential for modernisation and change. Now it is the case that the railway company has received the money they have asked for, but it is also such that the railway company has not been able to spend the money they have received. Of 84 million. For racial protection, only one-third have been spent, and there is a lot of money left. 260 million. kr for maintenance is also unused and the entire transport sector has almost 1 billion. kr which has not been used. The representative of Langeland's government has been sitting in the chairs for five years. What is the reason why the representative Langeland does not see himself able to participate in any modernisation of the organisations, for which there is a clear need?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e625	Modernisation from the Right perspective is fragmentation, privatisation and more companies – mass root. They were doing it, and it stopped us. This means that one has a lot of actors who sometimes don't know what the other player is doing. There is a problem for train Norway today. It is therefore clear that SV, like the red-green ones, is discussing the organisation of the transport sector in general. We have otherwise been on a study trip in Sweden just to study this; to see if it is possible to make changes. In the railway works we have now taken the necessary steps, in my opinion. It was absolutely necessary to get a new lease. That lead is now in place. I have full confidence that the rental can take care of using the money that SV can provide, and that the representative knows: If it was up to SV, there would be even more money for the railway than this government is delivering today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e634	In my time in the transport sector, I have registered that there has been close, good and close cooperation between the representative Langeland and the government councillor Meltveit Kleppa – both rogallings. But I don't want to say that it's necessarily the same political priorities they have. I want to challenge the representative Langeland on two things. The only thing is that we now see a cut of 20 pst. in the field of climate research. It's not something that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa has done based on an economic considerations. This is a little bit of money. It's been a deliberate act by the government council of Meltveit Kleppa. It's a down-priority area that Langeland, based on his post, should definitely give priority, based on the climate challenge we have. The same applies also to Route Plan 2012. Does SV as a party have greater ambitions than the government has, if not have a goal for when Roadmap 2012 will be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e643	It is quite right, as the chairman of the transport committee says, that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Langeland have different positions in many areas. Among other things, there are some road projects in my own country, for which the Council of State is very much in favour, and Langeland is very brave and argues, among other things. with the climate agreement and other things to get the Council of State to come on my team. But it's not easy, I can say! So to the problem of climate research, it's obvious that if it was 50 pst. SV Government, climate research would have had more money. It's despondent. I also think she would have had if the Christian People's Party had 50 pst. digestion and could control this on its own. As former Environment Minister, the representative Hareide knows that a government does not receive 100 pst. impact on all policies, but SV is over-performing, and not least what is happening around the train sector is a high focus. It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e650	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e653	We build the country step by step. Involvement in transport is an important tool for putting the whole country into use. Food and transport policy is like hand in hand. We're really shrinking the country with good infrastructure projects. This is important in our long-term Norway, which has a population and large production of goods and services around the country. Good transport solutions mean a lot to people's everyday lives, whether we're talking about road – and I feel that everyone has a road, when we're traveling – rail, maritime traffic, airplanes or the digital road. We are now focusing in particular on operation and maintenance. Taking care of the infrastructure we have is absolutely necessary both to improve road safety and to improve the quality of life of most people. The investment on the road and the track is at a historically high level. The 2011 proposal amounts to 29.4 million. kr, a growth of 10.6 pst. compared to the 2010 budget. With this, the appropriations have increased by approx. 44 pst. since the government took over in 2005. The number of the Railway Station is 2,7 billion. kr – whole 67 pst. Maintenance is increased by 60 pst. That means we're going to add a lot of new asphalt, and we're going to get a higher standard on the roads. There will be 1000 km of new asphalt on the highways next year, and 10 pst. of which the roads are being repatriated. It also means queue and road work next year, as it was in the summer when I was driving. We in the Center Party actually enjoyed the activity we saw, and we're also going to see next year. A number of major projects are launched in 2011, from south to north. I will not go through the list; it has been done in a good way by the representative of the Bjørnface. Smart solutions must be provided. I want to point out a couple. We're going to build a bridge over the Rombaksfjord, named Hålogalandsbrua, on the E6 between Narvik and Bjerkvik. It has been a clear wish from the continent. We're going to go down the airport in Narvik to finance the bridge over the Rombaksfjord. It will strengthen the offer at Harstad-Narvik Airport Evenes, and E6 will be briefed. It's an exciting solution, where you exchange something to get something you think is better. On the E6 we shall test whether investment, operation and maintenance in the same project may have something to do with it. It can have significant transfer value if this goes well, which I am sure it will. We are investigating a number of projects, a number of fjord crossings, among others. on the E39, to find the best solutions for possible continental connections. The county councils build roads like never before, and they see links with the development of business and land needs. There's a lot of activity around the counties. Racial protection is important. The government is following up on the goal of 1 billion. kr annually for racial protection between 2010 and 2019. I guess it's proposed 1 billion. kr for breed protection in 2011, an increase of 23.7 pst. from 2010. Racial protection is important, because it reduces the cost of people and businesses because of race or risk of race. But the important thing is to make sure that people have a safe path, that it is possible to get to school, get to work and drive on roads they are totally dependent on, in a better and safer way. From the government’s acquisition in 2005, railway appropriations have been given a real boost. That promise continues in the 2011 budget. We're proposing 11.5 billion. kr for railway purposes in 2011, an increase of 13,4 pst. from 2010. Making train traffic more reliable is essential. People should be able to trust that the train is coming and going when it is going to, and it is not at least a smart solution to send goods on the track instead of on the road. Therefore, the budget for operation and maintenance is increasing by 4.9 billion. kr. We take responsibility, and we have to make sure that we get more done on the railway side. We now have three times higher investment and operating budgets than when we took over after Bondevik. I'm going to have to take a look at the Northern Territory investigation. The first phase was now presented in Tromsø. It points to a number of interesting sections, both on the road and not least on the railway. The railway gets a significantly higher focus in the north in the years to come. An investigation is to be made into Russia, and Finland and Sweden are to be investigated on a number of points in the three northernmost countries. Not least the economic activity allows for such an investigation. And then we'll see what the investigation shows. But at least there are exciting times, where bets can be something completely different 10–20–30 years ahead. In addition, maritime traffic is becoming even more important. It is important today, but the importance is increasing with increased transport along the coast northwards and southwards and from ports in the north to the United States. Perhaps even goods from other countries come to the port of Norway to be transported by rail from Norway and all the way to China. Ports and fairways are being expanded as never before around the country. It is important because maritime transport is – and should be – an important transport year for Norway. We secure mail for all six days a week. There has been a debate on this, and it is important that we ensure that we still have it. We're still building broadband. I got a glowing e-mail from a lady up in a building yesterday, who was finally online. She had never been before. This was achieved through the use of the instruments of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Now we have to move on with the width of the tape. This is where the Center Party is very impatient. We're betting on the environment through Transnova. I recall the trip that the committee had to Sintef in Trondheim this fall. There we were presented with the exciting opportunities that lie in the development of the job they do – they develop more secure vehicles – and also by the job of Transnova to enable electronic ferries. It's very exciting what's happening in the area. There is a strong focus on public transport around. Several cities are betting on the conversion of the bus fleet for the use of more environmentally friendly fuels. Both natural gas and biogas are alternatives to diesel. The reward scheme is requested. We see that from the applications that come in. In districts, new collective actions are being tested – by taxi as a bus, or by an order scheme, such as: has in Nord-Trøndelag. As far as road safety is concerned, we need to build safer roads. But at the same time, solid, mind-building work is important. The number of fatal accidents is related to speed, rush and lack of safety belt use. We need to contribute in all areas, we need to aim that even fewer people lose their lives or are seriously injured on the way. Walking and cycling routes around schools and agglomerations are important, and a cycling network in cities is important to ensure the soft traffickers. Here, planning has to speed up, so that we have more projects to come with in the future. With this state budget, we are taking great steps towards a safer and better transport system for people throughout the country. And we have no doubt that the government will follow the historic transport plan, which is 100 billion dollars. kr more to road and track than the previous transport plan provided. That being said, the Center Party will continue. National transport plans are to be followed up each year with appropriations, so that we both maintain what we have and build new ones where we need it. And we're going to find solutions that stand for a long time to come. The link between industry and trade is obvious to the Centre Party. Investment in roads, racial protection, rail, freight hubs, ports, fairways and broadband are basic investments for future value creation, and it is a value creation that benefits the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e697	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e700	The centre party has, as we all know, changed its political side – from bourgeois to socialist – a few years ago. My questions will then be: is the policy in the field of transport also drawn from the web on the same line as the new logo of the party? Have you perhaps in the dark of the night surfed the Internet pages of the Workers' Party and SV and thus failed the districts, which depend entirely on good infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e705	I believe that we are strongly committed to rural policy, which we are betting on in the city. We have a strong road construction around the country. It shows the national transport plan that we're in the middle of now. The county councils build roads that never before thanks to the transfers they have given the counties. We're betting on broadband, and as I've just referred to, we're impatient to move on. But there's no doubt about that 1 billion. kr and well there had not been any progress in broadband investment if this government had not taken hold of this case when we came to power in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e710	The representative of Nordås, as a good central party representative, was very concerned that we should have development in the districts, and I understand that. There are some formulations in the budget configuration of the three parties Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right on bets on the Nordlandsbanen, which go through your home district, among others. with the modernisation, expansion of multiple crossing tracks and automation. It would mean a lot to get goods on the track. What makes the Nordås representative unable to participate in such a formulation, when her home district would benefit greatly from such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e717	We're betting on the railway around the country. There is also a stake on the Nordlandsban in the budget, both bets on cross-rails, which are built, and which are partly waiting for the approval of Merkur, which some are responsible for being bought in due course, and bets on automatic train stop. And that's important. In addition, there are clear ambitions and bets on the Salt Pendant, which is part of the Northern Line between Rognan, Fauske and Bodø. It is important to ensure urban train traffic on the Northern Railway. And I can assure the representative Myraune that the Nordlandsbane is going to be important even in the time to come, to make sure you get goods in and out of the country. The track has a very high freight service today, and the investment on Bodø as a freight terminal is important for bringing goods into and out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e724	The representative of Sjelmo Nordås has said in this debate that she has ours in Sweden. What is interesting is that there is also a debate on transport in Parliament today. There it is. five cases involving alcohol and the use of alcohol in cars. It can provide greater safety in terms of traffic safety. What they record in the Riksdag today is the use of alcolocks in school buses, for example, promilled people can have alcoholics installed in their cars and thus get to run earlier using alcohol locks. Unfortunately, only the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to ask the government to put forward a separate case on measures to increase the use of alcohol. When I heard today the Central Party and the other government parties' replies to the Progress Party, traffic security was one of the things they wanted to give priority to. This thing with alcohol locks, is there anything the Center Party would consider joining?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e730	Alcohol locks are important. There's no doubt about it. I also think it is important that we see measures in the context. An action plan on road safety, which we are working on, has been presented. It will also be relevant to consider measures to ensure better control of car-related alcohol use and drug problems in general. We should be honest and open and say that that action may be one of several actions that will be assessed in the future, but we need a comprehensive plan to achieve the objectives that need to be achieved, both in terms of awareness-raising work and in relation to the control of road users who are out and driving. And securing cars can be a measure that is being considered, which was also recommended by SINTEF when we visited there in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e735	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e738	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Transport and Communications Committee during this period. I would therefore like to present the alternative budget of the Left, focusing on the areas in which we differ from the government's proposals. The left is concerned with accessibility and road safety both in cities and districts. We mainly support the government's proposal for a promise to invest in maintenance and investment frameworks on the road. However, we note that from the day one, there is a delay in the follow-up to the election promise that NTP will be followed up. The government may receive conditional commendation for increased investment on the railway. The problem is that most of the money goes to maintenance and operation, which means that important new projects are being put at risk. It is also good that the reward scheme for public transport in large cities has increased by 100 million. Here too, however, the Left believes that the need is considerably greater. Both these increased efforts in the Left's budget are closely linked to the other climate and environmental policies. In particular, the left is concerned with the importance of realizing the intercity triangle with double tracks and projects that contribute to significantly reduced travel time over the longer distances such as Oslo-Bergen/Trondheim/Kristiansand. That is why we are proposing increased appropriations for the railways by a total of 1 billion. DKK, of which 100 million. kr is set aside for increased effort for operation and maintenance in the Oslo area. The rail policy of the left aims to bring us down to the following travel time by train in Norway by 2020: Bergen/Trondheim-Oslo: 4 hours Kristiansand-Oslo: 3 hours Oslo-Lillehammer/Skien/Halden: 80 minutes The following projects are therefore important: The Ringerik Tunnel on Bergensbanen double track Hamar – Lillehammer Borderway for the interconnection of the Vestfoldbahnen and Sørlandsbanen double track Oslo – Ski – faster Eidanger link – double track Sandbukta – Moss – Kleberget – is forced to take measures for reduced travel time on the Vestfoldbahnen, such as: double-track south of Drammen and crossing tracks The left believes it is a pity that the majority has down-prioritised the start of the Ringeriks course towards the end of the decade. The track will relieve the road network towards the metropolitan area and reduce the journey time to Bergen by 1 hour. Representatives from the government and government parties have promised on a number of occasions that it will be addressed in the problems of train traffic. It is therefore worrying that the government, after they said in the election campaign that it would be worse before it got better, but in 2012 the problems had to be solved, now after the election alerts delays in the Roadmap 2012. Left allocates 100 million. kr to invest in investments on precisely Route Plan 2012. It is also essential for long-term railway investment that an allocation be made for the planning of increased capacity through Oslo, such as: a new Oslo tunnel. Therefore, the Left is committed to launching a major effort to plan new capacity through Oslo. It is necessary for the State to take more responsibility for public transport. Therefore, the Left proposes to increase transfers over the reward scheme by 100 million. kr. The left also proposes a new entry of 100 million. kr for the planning, investment and operation of public transport in the major cities. It is essential that the country contributes financially to raising major projects in Norwegian cities, enabling cities to meet traffic challenges in an environmentally friendly way. This will allow large cities to increase public transport investment and to use the funds in urban railways. The Bondevik II government played an active role in setting up an urban runway effort, among others. in Bergen. There are a number of important projects that should receive a government contribution, such as the North-Jear Railway, the Kolsåssbahnen, the new Fornebubanen and the path to Aarhus. I notice that SV's Langeland thinks the state of things is quite okay, and that he owes it to municipalities and cities so that things don't go any further. There is also a need to develop and facilitate more environmentally friendly road traffic. It is particularly important to use new and environmentally friendly technologies and fuels. The Bondevik II government regularly stepped up the appropriations for research, development and demonstration in hydrogen and biofuels. This work continues with the Left's Alternative State Budget, and we are proposing an increase in funding for the purpose of 40 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. 5 minutes goes by fast -- I'll be on the list of speakers again, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e798	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e801	I would like to begin by commending the Left to bet on environmentally friendly transport in its alternative state budget, where they add to the rail budgets, they propose even more money for public transport and more money for walking and cycling – well and good. I have to say that I prefer the Left in opposition, because the railway budgets last time they had the Minister of Transport were sad things – they stood still at a low level. The Labour Party and the Government have greatly increased the rail budgets, tripled the reward scheme for public transport and increased the effort on foot and bicycle routes since we took over. In its alternative government budget, Left writes: ‘The Government may receive conditional commendation for increased railway investment in the 2011 draft budget.’;» With the profile of the Left, I am not in doubt that the Workers' Party and the Government are giving more Left Policy than the Left got again with the Right in the Government and the Advance Party in the Cotte. Does the representative agree with that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e813	I thank you for this question from the representative from Akershus, and I also thank you for the praise. We've been together in Akershus about a lot of important projects. I think, among other things: at Oslopackak 3, which was essential for us to get good collective solutions. So I'm very happy that we're together. Then it's like we're together about something – some good solutions we can get together with the Workers' Party. The right was also on Oslopackak 3. The left is at the centre of Norwegian politics. We have our autonomous alternative budget, which I presented to you right now, and then we find good solutions both to the right and to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e820	The representative Tenden – former vice-leader of the Transport Committee – had a visit to me against the cities and local democracy. In Oslo, the left has an influence on politics, and they say no to do things that have to do with health, which can do better for people living in the city, with the local pollution that is, and to take traffic control measures that can make it better for asthmatics and others to live in the city. Does the representative tend to avoid doing anything locally with the local impurity? When Left had the Minister of Transport, the latter in 2005 – Skogsholm – it was a good billion, among other things. to the railway. Now it's almost up to 5 billion. kr. We have increased the rail budget by 67 pst. since the Left had the Council of State. Would the Left want to return to Skogsholm time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e827	First of all, it's kind of a strange question. We were with the SV on Oslopackak 3. Okay, you say you can charge a rush-time charge, but what Stockholm did, and what they did in London, was they set up public transport first, and then they introduced a rush-time charge. Had Hallgeir Langeland taken a trip to Akershus and took a bus from there and into town, he would see the needy. The bus is driving past people in the holding stations. People want to travel collectively. That is why we have said in our alternative state budget that the state must contribute more. And there I'm very disappointed in Langeland. He stands and praises the government and mentions nothing that the state should contribute more to solving the collective challenges in the big cities. I actually expected him to. Then I don't raise the second question, but you can ask it one more time!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e838	We have the situation that it's a blank line. The representative of Langeland can have it if he asks for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e841	Then he'll ask for it! That I thought was a somewhat unkind answer. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa has proposed that 12 cities can now take restrictive measures which could improve the health situation for children who otherwise have to be in the kindergarten or in the school because the air is so poor. So it's like the Left is the support wheel for the Progress Party-Right Town Council in Oslo, which says no to do anything. And then the question to the Left is: is it that the Left will continue to support the City Council, which will not do anything to safeguard the health of people in Oslo? So the representative didn't answer if she wanted to go back to Skogsholm. The Forestsholm era means Bondevik II, when almost no money was paid for investments in the railways. This government has increased by 67 pst. We have a multiple reward scheme after the Left got out of government. We support the North-Jären urban railway problem. We've done a number of measures that are climate friendly at all – many things that Left didn't do when they were in position. The question was: do you want to go back to Skogsholm?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e852	Skogsholm had a big focus on our big cities, cf. inter alia: what I said in the pulpit about the city railway in Bergen, where she was an active driver. I don't see that fading right now, with this Minister of Transport. And I'm very sorry about that. And once again, if we are to get public transport up and go into our big cities, so that people can actually choose to travel collectively, the state should contribute more. That's why we have added money to it in our alternative state budget. I am very surprised that Langeland can stand and blame the municipalities and cities for not getting public transport up and going, instead of taking some responsibility centrally, as Skogsholm did when she was Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e862	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e865	National transport plan 2010–2019 marked the end of the transport course in Norway for a 10-year period. Historically high economic frameworks, a 2011 government budget with increased promises, an increase in the first four-year period; no one should doubt that the government will implement the plan. The opposition party has many proposals for different forms of organisation and funding arrangements. I'm open to thinking new. The sector now needs, however, above all, high and high-quality licensing that can be translated into high-quality services throughout the country. In 2011, we halt the growth in the decay of the national road network. On the railway, a marked commitment to maintenance and renewal shall contribute to making the network more reliable. Transportation means the transport of hundreds of thousands of people every day. It is bad for Norwegian transport when faults and lacks of train equipment and infrastructure lead to stress and delays for those who need to reach different goals. Performing all necessary maintenance and upgrading an old and worn-out network takes time. The government is doing a good job. The total concession to the railway for 2011 is 11.5 billion. kr, an increase of 1.4 billion. kr from 2010. Compared to 2005, the increase is 67 pst., or 3.7 billion. kr measured at fixed prices. It's awesome. In 2011, it is planned to launch three new, large and important railway projects: Gevingåsen tunnel, Barkåker-Tønsberg and Lysaker-Sandvika. They will continue to increase train traffic capacity in their own way. We are maintaining full pressure on the implementation of the Oslo project; it is particularly important in order to improve the operational stability of train traffic across the Norwegian network. In the budget, we announce a gradual introduction of a new base route model for the Austland region. The aim is to step up the train supply to a level that allows the new trains to join and solve the major transport challenges while improving operational stability. The Railway Agency and the NSB are now working closely on a decision-making basis for the introduction of a new base route model as soon as possible. I want to come back to this matter later in connection with the 2012 budget. In order to implement the renewal and all investments prioritised in NTP 2010–2019, it is necessary to strengthen the work on recruitment and development of competence in the Railway Agency, especially in the railway sector. I know that the Railway Agency is working on this, and that they see that it is an obligation to implement the planning and meet the major challenges facing the Railway Agency. The railway manager has made a significant effort to renew the railway system. She has set up a leadership group that I am overestimated to work with the goal of developing the organisation further. The main challenge today is to improve the operational stability of train services. The number of delays in November this year shows that the Railway Agency is working well – developments have been positive. For example, local traffic in the Oslo area has been more punctual than both in 2008 and 2009, and is not far below the target of 90 pst. Intercity and high-speed train projections and north-central development will provide a good basis for correcting 2013 choices. Traffic around the country is often about roads. The draft budget for the State Road Administration is a total of 15.1 billion. kr – an increase of about 1.5 billion. kr, or 11,2 pst. from 2010. Before the end of 2011, it is planned to open 700 km of new national road. The objective of maintenance is, inter alia, to: 1,000 miles [1,000 km] of asphalt. Much effort is needed to follow-up on the NTP priorities. Only on the road side shall more than 25 concept selections, KVU/external quality assurance, KS1, be carried out towards the next NTP. In the finance debate, we took a trip along the E6 from Oslo to Trondheim. Now let's take time for E39, starting with Kristiansand. We will then meet roadwork, with a new route from Fardal-Udland-Osestad, which is completed in 2011. We are briefed on Gartnerløkka-Hannevikdalen, Ålgård-Hove-Sandved and Smiene-Harestad. All of these are planned new projects in the latest NTP period. The property tunnel is the theme of Rogaland county no. December. There are plans to start in the first four-year period, which will involve a four-field path outside the Stavanger Centre. And then Rogfast -- I was just saying -- is like a bullet. Resources are earmarked for the last part of the 10-year period. But it's a very pressure for a ferry-free crossing of the Bokenfjord. There are a lot of clarifications that are left over as of now. If we go over Stord, there goes roadwork. Many sections have been completed in 2012–2013. There is work going on at the Nyborgkreuzet just north of Bergen, and we hope to start construction both on the Svegatjørn–Rådal and on the Vågsbotn–Hylkke – i.e. Eikåstunnelen. Svegatjørn–Rådal in 2012, Wågsbotn–Hylkke in 2011. Then there are even more projects: Nyborg–Klauvaneset and Vikanes–Romarheim Bruges in the last part of the period. Torvund–Tegen is under construction, Lavik ferjekai is ready for launch in 2011. There is extensive upgrading of the E39 on many routes through Sogn and Fjordane for the current four-year period. The Loteberg has been in force for the last six years. Then we arrive at Kvivsvegen, which is under construction and finished in 2012: 17 km new road in a new line – ferries-free highway between Nordfjordeid and Sunnmøre. We start race safety work in January on a large project: 8 km of new road in Hjartåberga, which is therefore linked to Kvivsvegen. As if it's not enough: If we get to the South Trøndelag, the further under construction is 4.5 km new road Knutset – Högset. We hope for Astad-Knutset in the extension of it. South-Trøndelag will advance Högkjölen-Harangen, and we will continue the repairs between Ålesund and Trondheim on several routes. Renndalen–Staurset opened in September. There were hundreds of people in sour haystacks. Happy faces, music and national songs, and the same expectations as in Kristiansand: We belong to the same coastal road! Let me also add: the third gas ferry Arsvågen – Mortavika is on route. The National Road Link Lavik-Opedal in 2011 is announced as a development contract. Regional Director Olav Ellefset starts in March on an own project: Free E39, and there are six KVUs to be prepared before the rolling of the national transport plan at E39. Traffic also involves the loss of human lives. The road safety in Norway is very high. A loss of life in traffic, however, is too much. Divor: zero vision. The operators in traffic security work do a good and systematic job. The government helps by following up the NTP security framework. A majority in Stortinget will increase the effort for a mint by NOK 20 million. Of course we'll follow that up. In order to achieve the goal of emergence and security across our long-term country, we have followed up on the promise of a race protection billion in 2011 — the full follow-up of NTP. We know what it means for the sake of security for many of those who each day need to use racetracks. In cities and towns, we need people moving from private cars to public transport and bicycles. Here's the pruning system central. There will be an increase in the value of 30 pst. in 2011, and cities with the most radical grips for reduced car use are being premiered. The bet on walking and cycling roads will be increased by 77 million. kr and shall go to related networks. So I'd like to say something about both research, mail and telecommunications and aviation. I'll get back to you in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e914	It sounds great when I hear the Council of State boasting of the few projects she mentioned in her speech. But I would like to have invited the Council of State to come and drive on some of the other highways and all those kilometers of road with which nothing is being done, either in 2011 or 2010 – or for that matter in the years to come. Then I think the journey would be put in a slightly different light than what the council tried to get with these few distances she now mentioned. The progress party wants to build a really full four-field highway on the whole of E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, we want to expand the four-field highway on the whole route on E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand, and we want to build a real highway network on the E6, four-field highway. 12 km, how can the Council of State be proud of this? So you have a national action plan that demonstrates that building a motorway, building a middle part, reduces traffic accidents. But there are measures the Council of State will not be involved in. It would really help to reduce the accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e923	If I were to be irreverent, I could invite Bård Hoksrud to show him what he got for the one million that the Progress Party got plus in three years on the transport budget. Of course I won't do that. Instead, I would like to stress that we are dealing with the most ambitious national transport plan in any way, with 322 billion. kr to be used for the transport of goods, in addition to a quantity of locally initiated project, toll-financed in full or in part. It's actually a realistic plan that we're now following up to the point and the dot. We could start on other corridors. We could, for example, traveled from Oslo to Tønsberg and saw what happened on that route, and we could look at what planes are going on both on the E18 and E39. I'm impatient to have done more, but I think Hoksrud again underlined that those who use the greatest words in this room have done at least to get something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e932	We can continue that discussion in other contexts. I'm going to use my line on roadside surveillance – as I did in the financial debate. The government chooses a solution where they follow a minority that is close to what the Directorate of Road wants, i.e. an involuntary roadside surveillance. There is also justification for getting away with less money. Finally, it is the case that the Air Safety Authority has a budget of nearly 53 million. kr per year. I assume that the government will not propose to put the Air Traffic Control under Avinor. The State Railway Authority has an annual budget of 52 million. kr. I assume that the government is not thinking of putting the Railway Authority under the railway system. Why should consumers have less self-monitoring to deal with than those who use aircraft and those who use trains?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e941	Then let me underline two aspects. I assume that Sortevik is fully aware that a roadside surveillance system will operate beyond an aviation oversight and a railway oversight system, for the simple reason that there is a lot more road in this country. So second of all, it's not like there's no supervision of roads today. On the contrary, in any accident, both the police, the State Road Service, the Disaster Commission, and so on. on the track immediately and check what has happened. It is also the case that the State Road Service today has instructions for oversight. I think that considering the total resource use would be a very good arrangement here to separate a separate unit under the road director to lead so-called risk-based supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e950	I'll also talk a little bit about resource use. It is true that this government has been involved in the so-called administrative reform, and thus in getting more efficient measures in the road sector on many parts of the road network closer to users and decisions regionally. So it is that we have received the answer from our investigation department that approx. 80 new posts are established in counties for this purpose. Maybe it's not that unreasonable when you get responsibility for 2/3 of the highways. But then you can ask yourself, has there been any similar reduction elsewhere? These are the figures I have received from the department itself: In the Ministry of Transport, there is therefore nothing, while in the State Road Service it has increased from 2008 to 1 October this year by 736 posts. Only in the Road Directorate has it increased from 569 to 874 – 305 jobs. Can the Council of State tell me what they're doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e961	I don't think Halleraker has gone past the fact that there is a tremendous increase in the effort within the areas under the responsibility of the State Road Administration. They're both state highways and state roads. It goes without saying that one of these has to be busy with efficiency. At the same time, however, one also has to rely on a large use of consultants – to which in any case part of the Storting is skeptical – or one must secure its own competence and thus also increase the number of addees. So I'm going to say that there are large numbers that are presented here. They want to follow something closer, but I want to underline that the activity has increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e968	The Council of State said in its statement that no one should be in doubt about the promises. What we're probably more in doubt is the redemption of them. So now the Council of State has explained that there are more resources that have been created in the form of more jobs, because there are many more tasks to be done. But the Council of State therefore lacks planning capacity and planning competence. Therefore, Route Plan 2012 is suspended indefinitely, the Alnabru terminal as well. This also applies to the Mosse tunnel — which is a scandal given that it has been at national transport level for three periods, and Moss Municipality has spent 40 million. NOK to buy up land – and the flea track, just to mention something. The private contractors say that they have both capacity and competence, and that they like to see this used in national contexts. But then the Council of State has to buy this competence and not just ask about senior competence for its own office. When is the Council of State planning to ensure that plan competence and capacity are available?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e975	For the sake of order, so that the representative, Mr. Ingerd Schou, should not be taken for the sake of having heard errors several times: what I said in my post was that ‘there should be no doubt that the government will implement the plan’. So I went further than what was promised. I'll keep my focus on implementation. That's what we're doing. In the case of the 2012 Route Plan, not least winter has revealed a great need for further renewal and maintenance. Route plan 2012 has not been postponed indefinitely. On the contrary, I promised in my post what time I would come back. It's because there's now a very nine-time job to see what it takes just to be able to report it back to Stortinget. Then the Railway Agency hires private companies, so it consumes – incessantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e985	If I can rephrase what the Council says, it's probably that the timetable doesn't come as a bullet in 2012. Then the Council of State says she will come back to the matter in the 2012 budget. But it's impossible to know what the government's goal is with the timetable today. I think it's hard for a sector to live with for an entire year, what time a plan that everyone's been threatening would come in 2012 – that was the goal – come. For a year to come, there will now be full confusion about this. However, I would like to challenge another theme, and it is transport research. We have now received the budget of the times, and in this context, the research is small money. Still, the government cuts over 20 pst. It's incomprehensible. I need a reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e992	Let me say, however, that there is now close cooperation between the NSB and the Railway Agency in order to clarify what is needed for a new timetable. So already in 2011, passengers will gradually mark an improvement. There's full pressure on what goes down in the Oslo tunnel of maintenance and renewal. New trains have been ordered to enter the route. So it's renewal and maintenance in general that gives greater punctuality. Then for research. Let me point out three important points that are strong: RENERGI has increased significantly since 2007. Transnova's got over 20 new million. kr. In addition, a new research project on transport security was created. Overall, the research has been granted a formidable license since 2007. But of course, there is no government council that wants to cut off any part of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e999	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1002	67 pst. and 44 pst. – it could have been the opening-up of the Workers’ Party at the last major elections in Årdal or Rällingen, but it is thus the increase in rail and road budgets since the Workers’ Party came into government in 2005. We're doing a good job of raising traffic that brings results that seem to be happening all over the country. Railways and roads are being built, and not least we are making sure that what we have is better taken care of than before. The maturity is stopped. Now we're going to do it again. At the risk of sounding self-satisfied on behalf of the government, let me quickly add that we still have major challenges and unsolved tasks in the transport sector. We're impatient to do something about them. It is sections and roads to be built and must be upgraded. My point is that we're on the move. You cannot read the configuration without finding the rarity of the Progress Party. One of the quasi-activities of the year is the reference to a survey on experienced road quality, where Norway has 79th place behind, among others. several African countries. Experienced road quality among a small number of business leaders in each country, what is it? It is when using such reports, without objective facts, to try to produce Norway as far worse than what we actually are, that I seriously wonder if the Progress Party has at all ambitions to become a position party – not to talk about the proportionless and creative use of money they add. Do they at all control what they themselves propose? I'm not sure. Outside this hall I would call it monopoly money and play statistics. Our ways are not the worst in the world, and it's not true that things just get worse. Ask the employees of the Railway Agency, who said earlier in the autumn of the railway station that they finally have predictability, they finally got something done. Ask the people of Eastfold, who a few weeks ago got another stretch of E18 open, if they're satisfied. It was a folk party during the opening, you could read in the Smale Newspaper. There are two of many examples of us building the country together, in large and in small. I am especially pleased with the railway operation. I took the liberty of reading the Right Budget from 2002 and 2005, not to find upbuilding literature, but to find facts. For 2002, the total budget of the Railway Agency was 4.25 billion. kr. For 2005, the total budget of the Railway Agency was 4.27 billion. kr. Congratulations! We've increased the rail budgets by 67 pst. The budget of the Railway Agency for 2011 is 9.26 billion. kr. In a debate we had in Stortinget on 23 November this year about crossing tracks, the representative Schou from the Right said: «The Bondevik II government carried out a historic investment on the railways.» If they carried out a historic initiative, I do not even know what terms we are going to use about our bet. In all modesty I would at least say that we have nothing to be ashamed of. Particular attention is paid to the operation and maintenance of the railway in the budget for next year. I've learned a lot about the railway in the last year, at good and bad, I'll admit that. But if there is one thing that remains as the most important lesson, there is no quick fix. It's a difficult message to sell, but we owe people the truth. Selling a message that everything will get better, almost right away, just reorganizing the sector a little bit here and postponing competition a little bit there, is a message I don't believe in. We need a long-term priority when it comes to building new ones and rusting up what we have. That's what we're doing. 13 December 2012 was a marking date for the train commuters. I understand very well the frustration they now have. However, I fully support the Minister for Transport in her assessment that Route Plan 2012 is now becoming a reform, not a revolution. The need for more and more comprehensive measures on and around the railway has recently been identified in order to achieve the major route conversion in place. That doesn't mean it's pushed out into the blue, that doesn't mean the train offer won't get any better in the time that comes. The current renewal work has already given and will provide a more stable train service. From the end of next year, the new trainsets of the NSB start rolling on the rails. Then I am above average eager to put in place milestones on how the train offer in the East is going to get better in the time to come. I'm glad the department is working on getting this in place. The NSB and the Railway Agency must cooperate more closely than they have done. I'm glad they're doing it now. And we need to get a final overview of the real costs of the measures that need to be put in place. I believe it is measures that need to be prioritised now, and I am pleased that the Council of State will come back to this as soon as possible, and at the latest in the 2012 budget. For two reasons, the development of ropes in the Central East is the most important. This is where most people are deciduously dependent on the train every day to get to work, school or other tasks. But the central east is also the hub of the rest of the train system. The distance train traffic is entirely dependent on a functioning Oslo area. Then I register that some people believe that all the railway money goes to the East. That's not true. This year the Gevingåsen tunnel is completed at Trondheim. Crossrails are being built on the Nordlandsbahn. The new Bergen-Fløen joint project and Ulrikstunnel are planned further. It makes sense to see the last two projects in context. They depend on each other to give power, and when they're done, it will mean a lot for local traffic into Bergen. We don't downgrade the mountain area. If we do what we want, the new project will be finished at the same time as you had the effect of the two subprojects it was first put up with. Unlike the opposition, we think it's smart to do larger projects and not smaller ones, in the old-fashioned way, by demanding Bergen–Fløen as a project of its own. We're getting a good rail budget for 2011. We are completing a new double track between Lysaker and Sandvika. We complete Barkåker–Tønsberg, we start up Holm–Holmestrand–Nykker, and there is full pressure on detailed planning and basic work at a new Ski Station and new double track Oslo–Ski, the main railway project in the coming years. We have a climate settlement in Stortinget that I am very pleased with. The transport budget follows up the climate agreement. The reward scheme for increased public transport and less car use was established under the previous government, a successful measure, which has tripled since the Workers' Party came into government. We doubled the appropriations for the action in 2009, as a result of the climate agreement, adding an additional 100 million. kr for next year. Some people argue that this is a system that penalises urban areas that do not make restrictive measures. The reward scheme rewards urban areas that want to invest in public transport, while at the same time introducing measures to limit car use, in line with the climate agreement. I am pleased that we have had four-year agreements with red-green Trondheim, blue-red Drammen and blue-red Kristiansand. It is planned to establish four-year agreements with Tromsø and Bergen, but then binding decisions on car restrictions must be taken in place. You're not quite there yet. But it is a hope that one will listen to one's own in Bergen, that the Christian People's Party in Bergen will listen to the Christian People's Party in Hordaland, who will have a rush-time fee, or that the Right will listen to the business-life peaks that in the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 September this year are begging for a cow pricing to get more money to the city track. Both Bergen and other cities now experience in winter that the red warning lights flash due to poor and harmful centre air. From the central authorities, clarifications have been provided to allow local authorities to take the necessary action. Nevertheless, the long-term and long-term reductions in road traffic in the centre areas are not excluded. Then maybe not the reward scheme is the best name. You get money for a promise to take action. The incentive scheme may be a better name. Transnova is strengthened by 42 pst. Next year. Many good projects have been supported by Transnova in the last two years. Until next year, even more projects can be realised. Soria Moria II states that Transnova should be established as a permanent body. The Workers' Party will continue to strengthen Transnova in the years to come, and personally I would like to wish for funding in the same way that ENOVA has. We have one of the world's best support schemes for electric cars in Norway. Foresighted politicians provided it over 20 years ago. We follow up. If we continue the regime we have on charging exemptions and support for charging points, it is fully possible to reach 10 pst. chargeable cars in 2020. I look forward to the government's action plan for faster phase-in of vehicles with lower or no emissions, which is announced in Soria Moria. Finally, I would like to say that the part of Halleraker's post that was about the high-speed rail system is behind me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1053	The President is sure that the representative Kjernli has good enough political arguments, so that he can avoid calling the political arguments of other parties ‘rarities’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1056	The government’s 2011 revenue budget increases the amount of the crown. Nevertheless, it is like the train in the Drangsdalen: It is too late. Unlike the Christian People's Party, which, through the chairman of the Transport Committee, alternately praises and criticises the government's budget, the Progress Party is not in doubt: it is too late. The government has a transport plan that it itself does not follow. The Progress Party believes that the plan does not meet the major challenges facing Norway in the field of transport. It will take between 50 and 70 years to modernise the transport network in Norway with the government's plan. In many other contexts, government parties are very concerned about telling them that their policies are responsible and take care of the generational perspective. The Government’s national transport plan does not. Today's business and today's road users don't have time to wait for 70 years to get better roads. Such a framework considers the Progress Party to be both irresponsible and indecent. The progress party will do this in 25 years. That is why we have created an alternative national transport plan for the period 2010–2019. In the government budget for 2011, the government does not follow its own plan. The Progress Party's 2011 Alternative Transport Budget follows the Progress Party's own transport plan. Therefore, the 2011 alternative budget of the Progress Party has a strong focus on transport – especially on investment in roads and railways. I have noticed that the draft budget of the Progress Party was met with claims of irresponsibility, claims that the Progress Party is on other planets, and that the Progress Party operates with numerical magic. It reminds me of a familiar expression: by itself you know others. Yes, so occupied by the Budget of the Advance Party is the Government that it allows the Ministry of Finance to carry out an alleged ‘investigation’ of content and consequences. The result is expected – not least because the powerful bureaucracy in the Ministry of Finance rightly feels its position threatened with more influence. One of the Ministry of Finance's objections to the funding tool of the Advance Party is that debt financing is not necessary since the State does not need a loan. But debt financing is being used! The interest-rate compensation scheme for loans for the refurbishment of school buildings started and began to be used from 2002 onwards. In the transport sector, the debt and interest compensation scheme is now being used in the context of the administrative reform — loans are being granted to county councils to repair poor roads that they are required to take over from the country. The system of interest compensation in the State budget for the direct allocation of State resources in its own budget will distinguish operating costs and investments and open up to the overall, clear, predictable and long-term financing of large investments in the entire transport sector – not only a few selected ones, as was done when the Gardermoen was built, but all major projects, and not only for aviation projects through the form of Avinor’s business, but also in the road sector and rail sector. It's the main hold of the Progress Party to get speed on Samferdsels-Norway. It's known, not unknown. It's a known and used tool. It's a known and used organization. It's justifiable, not irresponsible. And it's not least economically possible – and of course simpler – with a national oil fund of 3,000 billion. kr. That is how the Progress Party can invest specifically in road construction, a necessary and prudent investment in the national road network of almost 22 billion. kr – not with monopoly money, as the Labour Party has just stated, but with an investment in assets, where the investment lasts for 50 to 100 years, and where the financial capital of the State is used. That is how the Advance Party may bet on the county roads, a necessary and appropriate 7 billion bet. kr. That's how the Advance Party can bet more on racial protection, 1 billion. In addition to the government’s proposal – not in monopoly money, but money that the government actually has. That is how the Advance Party can bet on the railway, a necessary and proper bet of almost 7 billion. kr – an investment, not with monopoly money, but an investment in assets. This is how the Advance Party can invest in traffic in the big cities, a necessary and sound bet through a 10-billion-dollar urban package. kr. Transport networks in the four largest cities of Norway are key points of the national transport network. The Progress Party believes that the State is responsible and that the State – not the drivers – is to take the funding and that the State is not to do so with monopoly money, as the Labour Party claims, but invests in infrastructure, invests in capital, with the financial capital that the State has in abundance. So a few words about something quite different: maritime transport: Norway has a long-distance coastline, and conditions are initially very well suited to maritime transport. It is a policy objective with a broad focus that transport should and should be transferred from land to sea. The Progress Party is disappointed that our proposal to have a separate transport message related to efficient maritime transport and port structure is not endorsed by any other parties. Nor does our proposal to get an overview of taxes and charges in the transport sector, especially in the maritime transport sector, receive the agreement of others. On the other hand, the use of tolls, against which the Contracting Party is opposed, is accepted by all other lots. Viewing the use of fees and charges in maritime transport — in order to promote the use of maritime transport — is rejected by the other batches when proposed by the Progress Party. More maritime transport will be a good transport policy. More maritime transport will be a good energy policy, and more maritime transport will also be a good environmental policy – even good climate policy for the climate focused. What about the environmental and climate-free measures to promote more maritime transport? We're calling for more commitment and more interest. More rapid development of modern roads and modern railways in Norway is – let me add – also a good energy policy and also a good environmental policy, with a bonus for those who are engaged in reducing CO2 emissions. Strangely, in particular, government parties in their environmental policies are more concerned with more taxes, more fees and more restrictions than with more investment in the transport sector. The Progress Party believes that it is wrong to make the transport sector an environmental and climate change problem. This debate also includes Document No. 8:178 S for 2009-2010, which is a proposal from the Right. It is a matter of non-discrimination between Norwegian and non-resident carriers on Norwegian roads. In plain text: ensure that non-resident wagon trains pay separately on the network of toll stations approved by the Government Parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left throughout the country. Let me be clear that the Progress Party wants the bombs removed, and that we want to stop road financing with tolls. But as long as the other parties are in doubt about this funding reform, we are trying to do harm wherever possible. Of course, we will have a system in which all those passing a bomb will have to pay in principle, with the necessary exceptions for residents and communities in the vicinity of the toll stations, so that they are not barred from inside the toll. We are concerned that there will also be a system for non-resident vehicle combinations that has been implemented in a cost-effective way. And we are concerned that when the Ministry of Transport, as they inform us, investigates new charging structures specifically related to heavy road transport, it should not lead to more charges than what we have today, rather on the contrary. So finally to Prop. 36 S for 2010–2011, which refers to changes in the Ministry of Transport budget in 2010. We have two comments. First of all, we have a comment and a proposal relating to information on fv. 661 in More and Romesdal, where there has actually been a toll entry illegal without a decision in Stortinget. We are strongly responding to this, and we are promoting proposals for supplementary supervision, control and reporting on the use of tolls. We have another comment on the compensation scheme for districts for differences in fuel prices, which I do not have the means to refer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1110	I am today happy to present a good budget for 2011. It is a budget that will strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport and contribute to the achievement of the government’s objective of transferring more goods from road to sea. The budget also ensures a high level of maritime safety, and I am particularly pleased that the preparedness for acute pollution is strengthened. The national transport plan for the period 2010 to 2019 provides a strong boost for the transport sector. I am proud to say that the promises in the National Transport Plan have been followed up. The NTP framework in the Coastal Network area has been proposed to increase by approximately 89 million. kr in 2011. This increase is aimed at expanding fishing ports and fairways, maintaining and renewing the infrastructure, and not least to a new combined plant and oil protection vessel. In addition, the coastal charge will be reduced by 29 million. kr. Furthermore, a new non-binding regulation will further reduce costs while respecting the level of maritime safety. The government may not only strengthen maritime transport and transfer goods from road to sea or decide how businesses are to transport goods from or to the markets. Ports have an important role to play here and, on their part, they must offer cost-effective transhipments between maritime and road transport, and they must cooperate with other actors. That is why I have invited representatives from the ports, from shipping companies and from the product side to a meeting in the ministry in the new year. There I want to discuss issues related to maritime transport in more detail, and what strategies are needed to succeed in achieving the objective of getting more goods on the keel. I am also very pleased that Norway has had an impact on the proposal to set up sailing managers off the coast of the West and South. That proposal was recently adopted by the IMO. Sailors will make an important contribution to enhancing maritime safety and reducing pollution hazards along the Norwegian coast. However, we must be prepared for accidents to occur. That is why I am also pleased that in 2010 we met the Coastal Agency's 2006 recommendations on oil protection equipment in state custody. Therefore, there is no longer any basis for claiming that the material in the depots is old and worn out. At the same time, there is no doubt that oil protection can be improved. The Government therefore proposes to increase the allocation for this purpose by 25 million. kr. These means will include, inter alia: be used to increase the competence of both the Coastal Works and the inter-municipal samples against acute pollution. Furthermore, the funds will be used for exercises and for concluding contingency agreements with fishing vessels and further research and development actions. In addition, in 2011, a state towing boat stand will be established in the West, while continuing the preparedness we have both in the south and in the north. Finally, I would like to reiterate that this is a good budget for the coast. The government here shows that it is fulfilling the commitments of the National Transport Plan to strengthen maritime transport. At the same time, maritime safety and oil protection are strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1127	It's going to be line change. The first representative is Bård Hoksrud – Arne Sortevik is the first representative, and Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1130	It's not always the order that doesn't matter. The submarine U-864 was not affected in the post. It's not that nice, because it's completely quiet. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party would like to have a timetable to implement the upliftment and to remove the mercury load. Has the Council of State continued to take the view that covering the world’s greatest mercury load in a shipwreck can be a solution? Or does the Council of State think that removal is preferable in the interests of Norway's reputation and the safety of its citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1137	The right of the representative is that the submarine missile itself is silent. I'm glad. What is not quiet is the work of implementing the project that the government is still doing, namely lifting. It has been there all along and has not been changed. At the same time, the representative is well aware of the challenges that the decision has given in terms of safety. That is why we are now running according to a tight schedule. The Coastal Agency is now conducting a concept selection study with the four options available in Prop. 81 S for 2009-2010, which has been treated in this house. The investigation is intended to be completed in the winter of 2010/2011. Then we have KS1 and on and on a decision-making basis that we will come back to the Stortinget with and inform about at the latest in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1142	Governments talked a lot about oil protection, and I'm really happy to hear that. But my concern is that in South Norway, preparedness has been greatly reduced, as the Minister of Defence, while later, as if spending money, takes away money in other areas. This means that the Coast Guard in South Norway will be severely weakened, and that means that oil protection equipment will be severely weakened. So my challenge to the Council of State is what the Council of State thinks about this. Does the Council of State really believe that there is a strengthened preparedness in South Norway, or is there going to be a weakened preparedness in South Norway? The second is that the rescue company is an important part of the carrier in oil protection and preparedness along our coast. The Council of State has also failed to address the rescue company's concern that they are unable to provide good enough training, that they are unable to have enough boats and the preparedness they want, and that is important for people who travel along the coast. Why do you just write five lines, without really going into that problem and how important is the rescue company actually for the preparedness along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1150	The representative of Hoksrud is quite right that the Coast Guard is doing an important job related to preparedness, also in the south. The coastguard is known under another state council, and of course I will not go into her priorities. But I have noticed that all vessels will also be in activity in the south next year. Oil protection and coastal safety are, of course, complex in several respects. As I said, now we're getting the position of sailors also in the West and in the South. It's an important step to prevent accidents, and that's what's the main point. So to the Rescue Company: they're doing a good job, and we have a goal that the framework state grant should assist in the company's efforts. That's why we've allocated 43.3 million. kr in grants only above that budget. In addition, there is money given over the Ministry of Culture's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1159	To the budget of Meltveit Kleppa, the ex-boyfriend Hareide said this was not so bad. Now I live in Bømlo, and I would like to say that this budget for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast is not so bad. We support the government's budget, but we have some comments on things that can be improved. Then I have stated in my article earlier today that we are disappointed with the progress and handling of U-864, which I will describe as at best boring the water. I have two specific questions to the Council of State, which I hope she can answer just as specifically. One thing she said in a confession to Sortevik, but is the Council of State insisting that the submarine be lifted? If yes – when does she realize that this is going to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1166	First, I want to thank you for the rose. It's happy, and as I said in my post, I'm actually very proud to present the budget that I have presented here. It is a very good budget for the coast, also for us who do not live in Bømlo! I'm very, very happy about that. In the case of U-864, I registered that the representative Halleraker was also in his post about it. I woke up, knocked to, when it was mentioned by my budget area! Otherwise, there's a lot going on in asphalt, so I'm happy to have any opportunity to talk about this important budget. I would like to have read from the proposition, where the handling of this is described. It's not like it's said that it's not progress. The Coastal Station will present the investigation in the winter of 2010/2011. Then we're going to have KS1, and then we're going to be briefing on the further progress plan in 2011 at the latest in the revised national budget. We're on! The decision of the Government on cancellation is firm. Then we'll get back to when it's possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1173	I would like to tell the Council of State, Berg-Hansen, that it is not necessarily a bad sign that any of its territory is not so much described. It can also be a good sign. One of the things that the Christian People's Party is busy with, and we also know that very many of its members are busy with, is the City Tunnel. So we know that the external quality assurance work has taken a little longer. Some of the challenges associated with City Ship Tunnel are that he often joins NTP processes, but it always comes in the longest time period. Therefore, it is important that both the KS1 process and the KS2 process be completed, so that when we deal with a new NTP plan, City Ship Tunnel can be completed. I don't necessarily ask if one should take him along, but can the Council of State guarantee that all processes will be ready until the next NTP plan is dealt with in government and comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1182	The representative of Hareide is probably right in saying that the City Ship Tunnel has been kept and kept. I have worked in the Department of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs before – it was early in the 1990s, when we worked on this matter. I must admit that I was a little surprised when this was one of the first things that appeared on my desk again, but there it is. And when new investigations are under way, it is to meet the improvement points that have been pointed out in the quality assurance process. The work is planned and is scheduled to complete the first phase of quality assurance in 2011. This means that work is on track in relation to the timetable outlined in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, so we follow what is announced there, and we follow that timeline. Then we get back when we have done the investigations and what must be done by quality assurance in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1189	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1192	There are few other areas of society where the need is so basic to think new and different as in the railway sector. President, on our common rail route from Ashim to Oslo, I have this week experienced trains on the way, that it is hot enough, and that it is long enough – it had to last only. There are cold trains passing through the country, there are too short trains, signalling systems and overhead lines on the way, and the lack of punctuality reveals weaknesses in today's organisation. Moreover, the non-use of annual appropriations for the intended purpose also calls for the transformation of the form of organisation and connection of the railway system, with the overall objective of securing and improving rail services. Appropriations for one year at a time at a time at a railway station will stamp the rational planning and for costly project implementations. We can do this better and cheaper. We can, for example: move it to the same railway station, administratively, and transform it into a limited liability company. It's going to be right. The need for new solutions and modernisation is evident. This will include, inter alia: provide greater predictability, and this will reduce our political detailed regulation. We in the Right want the construction of train tracks continuously, continuously and faster. New forms of funding and alternative forms of organisation will be seen today. It is very provocative that the government has found no room to comply with the national transport plan on investments in the rail network. Investment in such an infrastructure is needed. Cross-rails of more than 600 meters are one of the measures for which there is an increased need, just to mention one thing. It is essential for both goods and travellers to arrive. The intercity triangle Oslo-Lillehammer-Skien-Halden with the Swedish border will have double tracks in 40 years at the pace of the government. It is simply not fast enough and not good enough. So good advice doesn't have the nation. Commuters and businesses will lose and suffer as a result. It's about saving yourself to find. It does so with its aversion to any form of modernisation and new methods of construction and financing. Everyone understands that decades of neglect and delay take time to take up again, but no one understands that there are ideological reasons for not using funding by private and public cooperation, or that private entrepreneurs are given the task of using planning and signalling skills to an adequate degree. When, according to the National Audit Office, the National Council’s own organisation, the Railway Agency, has not been able to provide accurate information on the consumption of means of maintenance, it is inevitable that the government will not intervene to look at today’s organisation. Yesterday, in the Drammen: A excavator snowed a pole to which all the contact wires at the Sandvika station were attached, and short-circuited the current on the entire Drammensbahn. Could it have happened on Gardermoen that someone is digging errors without the security systems alerting? It is a national scandal that the government does not take the necessary steps in the railway field to such degrees. It will be very difficult, if not directly irresponsible, to collect funds into an organisation that cannot explain and does not use the funds for their own purposes. Almost 1 billion. kr is not used up by the total year’s appropriations in the field of transport. 1/3 of the appropriations for racial protection are unused. Of the pot of 1.3 billion. kr for maintenance is 260 million. kr unused. Does the Council of State think she has control? What will she do? Nothing? Continue with an immature organisation and organisational models? As I said, I refer to the proposal that we have previously made from the Right regarding conversion into a limited liability company. The National Audit Office also says in its report regarding the package of measures that was given to the Railway Agency, that it is 929 million. NOK left on book. The development of the railway is going in the wrong direction, despite the fact that increased appropriations for maintenance have been prioritised over time. The fact that the government opposes the transition and also the assistance of private actors to deal with capacity and competence planning is, therefore, a policy that makes Norwegian railways vulnerable to damage. commuters and businesses failed. People live in the districts, among others. In order to get to work in the capital area, a central government council is failing the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1209	National road ferries are an important part of the national road service along the coast. In recent years, there has been a very positive development in the fact that many of the most busy links have been given new and more time-consuming ferries. Natural gas as a fuel is being phased into new connections, and in the autumn of next year the largest gas journey is now being introduced into the Rogaland E39. This implies progress both in terms of the environment, in terms of speed, comfort and universal design. It is also gratifying that the Lavik-Oppedal link at E39 in Sogn and Fjordane is being announced as a development contract with a view to obtaining even more environmentally friendly fuels, such as battery or biofuels. Many of the district ferries also provide opportunities for new technologies. Several of these are currently being run by old-age ferries, which are not environmentally friendly, with poor comfort and poorly adapted requirements for universal design. Therefore, it is good that many municipalities will also consider more environmentally friendly ferries. This applies, inter alia, to: Hordaland County. For the environment and for all ferries users, the majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications is particularly pleased to point out that the State has to assist the county municipalities in order to make the transition to new environmentally friendly ferry fleet technology. Since I have a brother living in Bømlo, like the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and Halleraker from the Right, I would like to say that we are also pleased with the maritime part of the transport budget. The maritime infrastructure will be improved by about 90 million. kr in the 2011 budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, and the conditions for maritime transport are improved by reducing the coastal charge by nearly 30 million. kr. This provides a good follow-up to the national transport plan. There is also an increased allocation of 25 million. kr to be prepared for acute contamination. Means have been provided for a framework agreement for fishing vessels and other suitable vessels linked to the State oil defence potentials along the coast. The Government will undertake a new and overall assessment of the national towing boat standby. Until a conclusion can be reached on what will be the future solutions, the current tug-boat readiness in North Norway and the South will be continued. Until more permanent solutions are in place, the Western Towing Boat Preparedness is strengthened by a presence contract, providing better access to to towing resources in the region. In the case of the submarine U-864, I refer to the Council of State's answer to questions from the representative of Sortevik now earlier. We are concerned with safety at sea, and we are concerned with safety on land. Norway is one of the most traffic-proof countries in the world, and we see that both the number of accidents, the number of injuries and the number of deaths in Norwegian traffic are moving in the right direction. Last year 212 people were killed in traffic in Norway. It's 212 too many, but it's the lowest number since 1954. By the end of November, numbers from Trygg Trafik show that we are at a similar level in the current year. The zero vision, the desire for a future without fatal and severe damage to traffic, is our vision for road safety work. We are concerned that it is important to focus on the whole traffic system, both the road user, the vehicle and the road. This is what all the parties agree on, but in terms of practical policy, especially the Progress Party, but also the Right, stands out. They focus most on the road, mainly on the construction of middle parts. We also believe that the construction of the middle parts is positive. That's why, in the budget line, we've added to this line, so after two years with the National Transport Plan, we've built half of the midpoints that are the goal in the four-year period. But there are many other measures that need to be taken to improve road safety. Traffic accidents occur everywhere, and there will never be built middle parts on all roads. The increase in the budget for road maintenance of 60 p.m. stops the decay on the roads. That's good for road safety. Next year, 1000 km of new asphalt will be added. That's good for road safety. The race risk billion is good for road safety. All road projects under construction or started next year are good for road safety. We can never build ourselves out of all the traffic accidents. Therefore, measures in other parts of the traffic system are equally important. We must have good drivers. That is why we look forward to the evaluation of traffic training, and we will make changes to make it better if it turns out it is right. This could be done, for example, by: means, again, making the theoretical knowledge course compulsory or introducing individual driver training. We will not, as the Progress Party suggests, privatize the driving tests. High speed is a contributing cause of half of the fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. We don't need higher speed limits -- we need a greater effort to get all of us to keep the speed limits we already have. Nevertheless, the Progress Party and the Right will increase the speed limits of the motorways. For this purpose, it is used that in 2004 the State Road Service recommended an increase in speed limits. They overlook the fact that new knowledge has led to a change of vision six years after the same road system. The Progress Party also uses Safety Traffic in Eastfold as evidence that this is correct. Now it is that Safety Traffic is not an organisation that is organized in states, but is on the contrary a nationwide organisation with one employee in each state. So safe traffic in Eastfold is one person. It is used as professional evidence that it is right to increase the speed limits of the motorways. In the media, the Progress Party has among other things: used Sweden as an example for the follow-up of speed limits. A few weeks ago, the red-green transport fraction had a meeting with the Director of Traffic Safety in Sweden, Claes Tingvall. There they believe that the Norwegian speed limit policy is correct – and say that Sweden will gradually approach Norway. We want more controls, both from the State Road Service and from the police. We've strengthened the printout police, we want more photo boxes, and we want more average measurement of speed between photo boxes, so-called distance ATK. The foreground part and the right part will wind down the distance ATK. The route ATK evaluation shows that the number of deaths and injuries is significantly reduced. This is considered by the Progress Party and the Right to be less important than the approach adopted by the Data Protection Authority in 2006. The fact that the Data Protection Authority did not delay the handling of personal data in the context of the current route ATK in 2010 clearly has not been brought with them. The progress party also believes that when a few drivers are taken, it is an argument against the distance-ATK, but for us it actually shows that it works. In fact, the goal is to get as much of a speed limit as possible. In addition, the driving party considers that it is dangerous for the drivers to keep track of the speedometer while driving. Hit it! Shouldn't the drivers always follow the speedometer when they're driving? How else are they supposed to keep the speed limits? Or does the Progress Party believe that it is not important to keep speed limits? Maybe they think the drivers should keep the speed limits, as the Progress Party would have them? Like the representative, Bjørnflaten, I would like to stress the importance of putting in place, as a matter of urgency, a code to ensure that all school children are seated in the school bus seat and seatbelt. As of now, only one county municipality has seats and seatbelts for all schoolchildren in the school buses, and there are incidentally Nord-Trøndelag. This is not sustainable, and for the Workers' Party this is an important matter. So we want to carry out that process. The more we succeed in road safety work, the more demanding it is to find new tools and to apply new ones. This will largely be about using new technologies, which will limit the freedom we have to choose for ourselves how we will behave in traffic. When we see the resistance of the Right Party and the Advance Party towards using new instruments today, I am not particularly reassured by the idea of what these parties will think of such measures in the future. For us, this question is simple: freedom of movement is not about freedom to drive as you wish, but it is about freedom to travel without being damaged or killed in traffic. This year’s transport budget, with a good follow-up to the national transport plan according to the NTP SPE, will, together with other important measures aimed at the whole transport system, be positive for road safety. The zero vision is our lead star – and we are on the right path!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1253	I start this year, as last year, by noting that when we travel around the country of Norway, we all see with our own eyes how bad the road standard is. The extremely dangerous stretch of E18 from Arendal to Tvedestrand has not been affected in the year that has passed. So this is a distance of E18 with two footbridges. The Council of State has promised that when it comes to an application from East-Agder to share one of the bombs they have – from one to more – she would take a positive view of it. So she welcomes the fact that even more bills are to be sent to the drivers, money that should have been granted over the state budget. The formidable promise in transport, which the representative de Ruiter of the Workers' Party spoke so much about during the budget debate last year, we have seen nothing more in East-Agder. Not even $25 million. For the planning and design of this dangerous route between Arendal and Tvedestrand, he has found room in the budget. It's simply irresponsible. I have received written promises several times in the last year from the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa about money for repairs and to have middle parts set up on the route between Bieheia and the Grimstad port on the E18 in East Agder, a distance of approx. 4 km. Great was the joy when I read in the government budget that the money was really inside the 2011 budget. The bigger was the shock, as it was only granted half the distance by closer inspection. This is actually irresponsible. Therefore, I assume that the remaining money from these written promises from the Council of State will be available either in the revised 2011 or at the latest in the 2012 budget, so that the development of this road can be continued without any stop, until the whole route is completed – something else would be irresponsible. We know that good, safe roads prevent accidents and improve the environment. Nevertheless, we see that this in the government's NTP and in the government's 2011 budget is not being properly prioritised. It's urgent to get good roads in place. We have neither human life nor time to lose. Racial protection is also a highly topical issue. We had a tragic accident at Search in West Agder earlier this year, on the main trajectory between Kristiansand and Stavanger. I cannot see that in the government alternative to the budget there is a willingness to rectify something here. The Progress Party will give priority to this route. The Progress Party believes that oil preparedness in Norway has been a priority for a number of years in the red-green, which is irresponsible. The Progress Party expressed its concern in previous budgetary negotiations that the Government parties were not betting enough. The Progress Party therefore asks the Government to submit a financing plan to reinforce the upgrading and renewal of the Coast Guard Depository Equipment and its own vessels. In our alternative budget, we've increased the budget by 50 million. kr. Freedom of oil protection is important, and we can only praise the WWF which is doing an important work related to the training of volunteer oil protection crews in the coastal zone through the Clean Coast project! We also believe that the project is Clean Coast! provides a lot of oil protection for the money, and therefore sees voluntary forces as essential in the future. The rescue company is also part of the backbone of oil protection along the coast. The rescue company contributes by a number of accidents, and helps to get what could have been major accidents, to be near accidents, just because they are present. That is why we are proposing an increase in addition to the government budget of 30 million. kr, this in order to ensure the operation of all day life skates. It is very important that the rescue company can be in place quickly when the accident is over, and then they must be secured so that this is possible. Arendal airport Gold button in East Agder is worth noting. The coming airport is a private airport that has its own future. A new control plan will provide the runway with a length of 2,200 metres, including safety zones. The owners have already purchased land and land, so that the aerodrome can be extended to a runway of 4,000 meters, and this on their own land. Such business initiatives are admirable. It shows that they have faith in Gold Button as an important airport for the entire southern region. I'm happy to see what business gets here, in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1276	Norway has a particularly favourable economic position. This means that we need to be very aware of how to streamline management and renew the public sector. In a few years' time, we will face challenges with the increasing number of older people. We need to find room for both good care for the elderly and other important initiatives. Renewal and ICT policy shall contribute to increased well-being and value creation. By using advanced ICT, the public sector contributes to innovation and value creation. ICT is also an important prerequisite for the renewal and efficiency of the public sector. The renewal of the public sector and the creation of value in emerging industries are therefore two sides of the same coin. Both from the Loan Box and from the Tax Office, we see that the use of technology provides opportunities for better public services, more efficient processing and better interaction between service providers and users. Increased use of technology also benefits business by making reporting practices simpler and provides information available in a better way. In the EU, ICT stood for 50 p.m. of the total productivity growth from 2000 to 2004. The EU launched the European Digital Agenda ICT Strategy in 2010 as one of the pillars of the EU's efforts to get out of the economic crisis. By improving efficiency, improving business processes and new services, Norwegian companies also have great potential for value creation. Administrations shall also contribute to the development of forward-looking regulation and to the development of electronic management. We in Norway have succeeded in getting the population to use electronic solutions. The ID port and MinID have been a huge success. 21 state bodies and 180 municipalities provide services through the ID port. Only in July, August and September did we register 4.7 million logins. But in order for us to succeed even better with electronic services for the population and facilitate electronic interaction in public, we need to have a forward-looking electronic ID infrastructure in place. eID is a prerequisite for several public services requiring a high level of security to be ready for electronic roll-out. Compared with the current budget, therefore, the government proposes to increase the effort next year by nearly 15 million. NOK 76 million. kr. We're also proposing a ringing of $8 million. of these means to cover the costs that the large public service providers will have when using eID solutions. When the draft budget shows an increase in the operating costs of diffi, it is due to the fact that some of the development tasks have now become part of normal operation. The total cost of diffi is approximately 387 million. kr. Possible gains from using eID alone are in the billions class. Divi should be a driver for public agencies to offer users their digital communication solutions, i.e. a digital first choice. In addition, Diffi is our main instrument for better coordination of the major ICT efforts in the state and for better electronic interaction in the administration. The government is committed to ensuring access to broadband with sufficient capacity for the whole country. We still need to facilitate the cost-effective development of broadband, so that market players themselves can expand broadband to as large a part of the country as possible. In those areas where we clearly see that there will be no market-based wide broadband offer, it is appropriate to grant government grants for the development. This strategy has been successful. Norway has one of the world’s best developed broadband networks in terms of both coverage and capacity. Besides, we're leading the world in using broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1303	Maybe I'll brag a little today: I think it's nice that so many of the councils find time to be in the Storting today. There have not always been so many who have participated in these debates. I'm very concerned about this with broadband. Governments say that we are world leaders, but there are people who have far higher ambitions than what you have in Norway. You talk about having 99.7 pst. coverage, reaching very many – perhaps beyond 10 pst. It's got 640 kbps. That means we can see from the Storting on the Internet, but that doesn't mean you can use your bank connection, or you can look at other channels on the Internet. So it's not exactly something to brag about. I record that the government and the government do not give more money to build this kind of broadband. So I want to challenge the government council on the following: why do you stop now, when it's still like 10 pst. have far, far below what you want to call and define as broadband today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1312	First I would like to say that it is nice that the representative Hoksrud notices that we are here – even he is not from Bømlo! The government has invested money to expand broadband in those parts of the country to which the market does not extend. I think it's been a proper strategy to let the market expand where it's necessary. So the government has spent 850 million. to shoot at the point where the market does not reach. This will also be the government's further strategy. I have registered that the Progress Party in the budget position wants to grant more money, and that they have an ambition that we will have a much wider broadband in 2015 than what we have today. Then I would like to remind the representative Hoksrud that an estimate has been made that 28 billion is needed. kr in order to achieve such a goal by 2015. And then I don't think it would be just the money it would be on, if we were to be able to achieve that goal. I have heard from the debate here that the excavators are also needed in other areas where the Progress Party makes its arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1321	State councils argued that ICT is an important part of public sector renewal. I agree. Finally, she was involved in the expansion of broadband. It's a very important piece, especially for the districts. The last time we talked about this, the council said she would bet on the digital dividend, which will be used in the coming year. Mobile broadband is being strongly developed today. Both Telenor and NetCom at least build out quite a lot. But they're relatively small based on fiber out to the stations, i.e. that if you don't get fiber out to base stations now, what's called both 3G and 4G will be perceived in the districts as both 2G and lower than that. Here it would be right that the Council of State had committed itself to the companies. So what does the Council of State intend to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1330	I didn't quite understand what Myraune said at the end, if we had engaged ourselves to the companies. Rather, on the contrary, we have tried to work with the companies. A number of conditions have been mentioned in the companies, which have shown that it is difficult to build fibre, among other things. because it has been problematic to provide driving paths. The Minister of Transport and my department have worked a lot to put in place a better regulations for digging. I think that's very important, so we don't get more costs for digging fiber than we need. Then it is still such that I believe that the market must take responsibility for a good part of the performance that will apply. And then the public must be able to shoot at where we see that the market is not reaching. The digital dividend shall be auctioned. This is the Ministry of Transport which has the primary responsibility. I believe that this too can help improve access to mobile broadband in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1341	Governments are responsible for data communication – a communication that is becoming increasingly important. I want to focus on data security in these WikiLeaks times. We know that four out of ten Nordics care little about data security. Norway is considered to be the worst in the Nordic class when it comes to data security. The government itself has experienced the loss of large amounts of data. We can now read on VG-net: «Hackers with retaliation against Mastercard.» The prosecution authority in Sweden has experienced being hacked, among others. because of WikiLeaks-saka. How does the government take action to ensure better communication on data security with the even citizen? How does it work to make public communication more secure? And how does a technical worker work in connection with this – is it a holistic strategy in such an important area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1348	I'm not hiding that prevention IT security is a challenge, because it affects a lot of social sectors. There are technically demanding solutions, which may differ across the different social sectors. It is also related to the fact that we, who are residents of Norway, often swindle with our own identification papers. Among other things, more than 20,000 passports are lost in Norway each year. Of course, it is a good idea to open up some environments to access your personal information. As far as IT security is concerned, we have established a cooperation with NorSIS at Gjøvik, an organisation that will help us to obtain more information. There are also a wide range of private sector actors working with NorSIS to focus on IT security. I'm absolutely sure this is a field where we're going to have even bigger challenges in the future. We need to work on it even more to make the challenges that society faces in the field of IT security visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1355	From a consumer point of view: we are using the network more and more, and very often it is that more and more of the tasks fall on the consumer in relation to the financial institution or public institution to be visited. Very often it is that the amount of work is shifted to the consumer, while the consumer experiences having to pay more for a service. On the one hand, you streamline, on the other hand, you get others to do the job – which then has to pay more for the service you actually do. What are the thoughts of the councils around it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1360	I'm trying to think about which of the government services there are payment schemes that make you pay more if you use electronic solutions. I can't get at anyone right now. However, in the local government sector, there are some payment schemes, such as: related to the processing of building applications. There is the principle that it should be for self-eating. Municipalities shall not charge a fee higher than the costs they incur to deal with the case. We've seen in a number of municipalities that are now starting to apply new electronic solutions, that then the price goes down, and it gets easier for the user. In particular, the treatment period for each individual is not immaterial in such a context, and we see that the service is increasing. However, if the customer takes a substantial part of the job, it should also be reflected in the fees paid for the individual services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1368	Effective transport and communication solutions are essential to create growth and development in business and to maintain viable communities throughout the country. Government parties show that road and rail investment is at a historically high level for 2011. Yeah, that's right, and it should just be missing. Each year more oil money flows than before, which can be used within the framework of the rule of action. Nevertheless, it is not at the level adopted in the national transport plan for the period. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Right has proposed using 1 billion. kr more in the transport and communication sectors. In addition to more money for the sector, the Right also proposes measures that will give us more money back. We propose project funding, and we propose Public Private Cooperation, so-called OPS. During the visit of the Transport and Communications Committee to the United States and Canada last autumn, we heard about a number of successful OPS projects. It was the main form there when carrying out major road projects. During the visit of the Transport and Communications Committee to Trøndelag in the autumn, we were told that Portugal has the same practice. The interesting thing was that at the same conference, a State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport said that one would assess this kind of funding also in Norway. If I don't remember correctly, the council also said in a discussion we had in the spring party that it was possible. But the Minister of Finance canceled it a few days later. It would be nice if the Council of State could touch on this subject and say something more about the intentions of the College of Government today. Air traffic is another important part of Norway’s communications. Both the main route network and the regional route network are important, and regular traffic on these routes is a prerequisite for business and rural settlement. The operation of the short-haul aerodromes has been a loss undertaking for several years and funds have been transferred from the major aerodromes. The right agrees with this form of funding, and we support it. The State also subsidises many of the routes on this network through the purchase of air routes. Nevertheless, ticket costs have become extremely high. It is important that, in the further negotiations, the State should now ensure that there is real competition on these routes. Real competition is also important for private airports, especially for Rygge and Torp. Now I want to ask the committee to move from Bømlo to Middle Norway. The Committee was on its way in mid-Norway this autumn. At that time, there was full agreement among the representatives of the two counties on what was to be given priority in the country. Trunk layers are in many ways a bottleneck in Norway in terms of both road and track. If something goes wrong on Langstein north of Stjørdal, everything goes wrong. Therefore, there was a great deal to do to modernise both the road and the track on the Trondheim-Steinkjer route. The electrification of the Trunder Railway is urgent, the Meråkerbahn must be electrified now – that was the message. The Swedish authorities are in despair. The County rapporteur of the South Tribe team called the route ‘the missing link’ and it is really ‘the missing link’. Therefore, the Right has a prayer to the Government: Take the signals seriously and get started. The Hubroway has become a concept. For B.C.E. 714 were granted money, and just before they started the work, they discovered a couple of helicopters. Then the Ministry of the Environment stopped all construction. New trasé costs 100 million. kr more. Now this has been transferred to the county council, and the state seems to have no responsibility anymore. We ask the Council of State to reconsider this and find a solution. The use of ICT, both in administration and among the population, has increased sharply in recent years. The Council of State was involved in its intervention, and we support many of the measures mentioned in this context. But I have to point out again that when young people want to move back to, or to, the village, the first thing they ask is mobile coverage and broadband. And then it's not about 640 kbps, which is the standard for 99 pst. coverage today, but 10 MB or more. If that's not the case, they don't want to move back. That's why it's an important part of it. Norway has been one of the pioneers in ICT use, for example: in toll financing, but in the case of public communications and ticketing systems, we are well behind. There's a lot to pick up today. So a little bit about maritime transport. There has long been a political consensus in Norway that we should get more of the freight across the sea and on the track. On the sea side, there are myriads of fees that make this terribly difficult to achieve. It simply won't be profitable to carry environmentally friendly, when the government imposes such high charges. There is a need for innovation here. We really hope that the government will add up to that in the years that come. In terms of path, we need more crossing tracks, and there I refer to the Right proposal earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1396	The development of the first phase of the emergency network has been a challenging process. A complex technology project that requires interaction between a number of actors, user groups and suppliers has led to the first part of the project taking much longer than initially assumed. But in March of this year, the emergency network launch button in Oslo police district was pressed. After a demanding construction process, normal operation of one of the most modern and high-tech emergency connections in the world was under way. Today, the network provides people in Eastfold, Akershus, Oslo and Søndre Buskerud with increased social security and better services. The police provide some 5,000 users with good feedback on the use of the Emergency Network. The fire service does the same thing, and the health service has used its first unit in Eastfold. The size has made a reservation on further nationwide expansion. It may only take place after completion of the first stage of construction, quality assurance and evaluation. This could be a challenge with an evaluation break for the directorate. Therefore, I would like to stress the importance of not taking too long for the current evaluation, and that the government will return to the Stortinget as early as possible in 2011 with a detailed assessment of the issue of nationwide development. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, asking the Government to facilitate the use of the new emergency network by rescue organisations, it is now foreseen that some smaller user groups that have close occupational contact with emergency situations, such as: Norwegian People's Aid and Red Cross, will be given the opportunity to join. In the case of other potential user groups, it is necessary to return to it after a possible decision on a continuation in the rest of the country has been taken. However, one should be aware that a large-scale testing and use among voluntary organisations will require much follow-up by the Emergency Communications Directorate. Organisations concerned have no employees with professional competence in TETRA technology. But we agree that as far as possible, we need to facilitate the use of the new network by non-governmental organisations carrying out rescue work. To the proposal of the Progress Party such as, inter alia, dealing with the economic impact on municipalities, it is simply to say that this is part of the evaluation currently being carried out. So to something completely different: rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox This path has been and is high on the inland priority list. Construction starts are mentioned in the current year’s budget, and it was expected to have the earth’s spade this year. The KS2 report was completed in April 2010. The Glamdal region is strategically located in the east-west Oslo–Stockholm axis. The axis is also part of the trans-European transport planning system. Rv. 2 ends in Norway’s second most trafficked border crossing. A new rv. 2 will be central to the development of cross-border cooperation on business development and culture between the Capital Region and the Nearest Region on the Swedish side. It is also worth noting that Värmland with its 273,000 inhabitants has the Gardermoen as the nearest main aerodrome. With effect from 1 January, the municipalities of this region will be part of the Oslo Region Cooperation Alliance, which is expected to grow to 100 000 jobs and to 150 000 inhabitants over the next 15 years. The Glamdal region has free capacity for housing, satisfactory public service and a good cultural offer. The municipalities of Glamdalen could be attractive housing municipalities for people who have their daily work in the capital region. However, this requires good communication. A new rv. 2 is absolutely central to being able to seize these possibilities. In this connection, I also mention the Kongswingerbahn. I am concerned that the process until a decision is taken on the further development of R & D. 2 has gone out in time, and I mean mildly said that it is unfortunate that it took so long to demonstrate the need for new political treatment of the tariff and discount system. I would like to stress the importance of rapidly promoting a proposition for the Storting in this case, so that we can be sure that plant start-ups will take place as early as possible in 2011. Finally, I have a comment to make to the representative Schou, who argued with and showed the great belief that AS-certification, business-economy thinking and the best management of the market are modern thinking. It's almost incredible. It's old-fashioned thinking. That's the social model we have in Norway today, which is the modern one, and the right does not realize that we are one of the most modern and well-driving countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1420	It's strange to listen to the government's sunshine stories. If you believe what they say, most things go on the rails – while the trains are actually standing. At the same time, the government parties are of the opinion that the Progress Party has an irresponsible economic policy. Then the question is, what is irresponsible by definition? In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is irresponsible that the degrees are now small and late in taking into account the maturities we have in the transport sector. And the maturity will continue. Only on our roads do we have a follow-up of almost 50 billion. kr. In my view, it is far more irresponsible not to deal with the challenges we face in terms of backlog, maintenance and investment for the future. With today's proposed progress from the government, it will take 50-70 years before we have taken what we are today behind a responsible standard. Responsible politicians cannot accept this. In a report on the standard and accessibility of our roads, Norway has 79th place – behind Botswana, Kenya and Rwanda – while Denmark has 9th place and Sweden 18th place. In Europe, Norway ends up in Jumbo Square, after Albania, according to another survey by the consultancy company Rambøll. So who is running a responsible policy – those who sit and watch our own country fall due, or the Progress Party, who actually have solutions to our challenges? It is a crossroads of thought that traffic accidents cost Norway nearly 30 billion. kr a year, while we build roads too much less. While central and modern motorways will reduce the number of road accidents, injuries and deaths, there is no large-scale investment in this area. Who talks about irresponsibility? Flights and routes in Norway are important for the mobility of the population, and the flight routes are the only nationwide collective service we have. Air traffic is user-funded, and today we have four airports that cross-finance all the others. Avinor is facing high investment needs related to safety requirements and capacity extensions. New terminal T2 at Gardermoen, the expansion of Flesland, Værnes and Tromsø and the removal of a mountain peak at Kirkene Airport require large investments, and then it is completely wrong that this government wants to take a total of 315 million. kr in dividends from Avinor. These funds would have made much better use of the fact that Avinor could have invested more in its own development plans. It is worrying that an industry financed to the degree of users is treated as a dairy cow and not as an airport developer. It may seem almost as if the government's objective is to kill the airports we have through its climate and charging policy. The districts can expect approx. 10 pst. higher fares and lower regularity, argues Objection – this as a consequence of a misguided tax policy towards aviation. In addition, the Government proposes that Hålogalandsbrua be co-financed by Avinor, which will go at the expense of the other airports. This helps to undermine the whole principle of non-discrimination between transport sectors. An air passenger in Vadsø or Stavanger shall now also be required to pay fees for the expansion of the Hålogaland Bridge. Brua we are positive to, but not the financing of it. For it is not only Avinor who is to co-finance — in addition, there is toll collection. There are hardly any limits to this government's creative proposals to tax its own population in its entirety. When we talk about accountability and irresponsibility, AS Norway, from the revised budget until today, has gone with 40 billion. NOK more in profit than expected. It would not be irresponsible to use any of this for transportation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1437	I am very pleased that the development of the middle parts of the E18 at Grimstad is being carried out. I am also pleased with the local and regional commitment to find good solutions that make the planning of the E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal not stop. The development of Rv. 9 is also well going on. Otherwise, it is important to keep the level of ambition high with regard to the South-West runway. One should definitely think two thoughts at the same time, both the interconnection option and the quick train with the shoreline. I am also pleased that Sørlanden has improved oil protection, with a tugboat, new sailors and a still present coastguard. Not so bad, committee leader Hareide's immediate comment was when the budget was presented earlier in the autumn – this in stark contrast to the Right and Advance Party, which has allowed sport to be done in black-painting the government's policies in all fields, including transport and communication. For 2011, 29.4 billion has been proposed. kr for road and rail investment – growth of 2.8 billion. kr from last year. Not so bad! The appropriations for the road have increased by 44 pst. from 2005. Not so bad! The appropriations for the railway have increased by 67 pst. from 2005. Not so bad! The appropriations for maintaining the national road network are increased by 60 pst. from last year. Not so bad! The appropriations for the reward scheme for better public transport and less urban car use are increased by 30 pst. from last year. Not so bad! I hope the chairman of the committee does not experience this which has happened on my part. Because it's not meant to be. My point is, in fact, to give the committee leader and the Christian People's Party credit for the objective facts that show that the Red-Green Transport Budget is an expression of a historically good commitment to infrastructure, for the next year, and not least the great promise that has been made since 2005 – as opposed to the Right and the Advance Party as black paints the most of the welfare and infrastructure efforts of the Red-Green Government. We take responsibility for the last five years in terms of investment in transport and other welfare areas. The question is about the opposition, and in particular the Right, takes responsibility for the failure of the Bondevik government to invest in infrastructure and well-being. The Progress Party does not have much to boast of as a supporting party to the Bondevik government either. So our conclusion on the budget for transport and other expenditure in the budget for the next year is therefore: do not delete so badly!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1473	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1476	We have a long-distance and beautiful country of residence throughout the country. That's very good. The Labour Party has always been concerned about putting the whole country into service. Of course, with such scattered housing, we depend on having good road connections. I am therefore pleased with the escalation that the government is now undertaking through the National Transport Plan, and I would like to highlight in particular the focus on racial protection and road maintenance. The state budget for 2011 was very well received where I came from. Our Regional Road Manager was so enthusiastic about the state budget that she actually proclaimed More and Romsdal as budget winners. That's good! The record high level of racial protection now ensures the start-up of several projects that will ensure a safer way for schoolchildren and workers in their everyday lives. Those who live on the flat may not think so much about it, but it is a great burden to send their kids along a rascal road, which is exposed to both rock jumping, snowfall and dirt race. Are you all right today? Or is it today that the rock jump will hit the school bus? It's a big mental strain on both the kids and the parents. Through record-breaking appropriations for racial protection, the government removes this concern for many, and that is a great relief. Just ask kids and parents who run every day through the rosy Rising Beach on the North Møre. This is where tunnel work begins in 2011 thanks to the government. In the summer my family holidayed in Norway, and we drove a lot of cars. On the rides I reflected a little over us drivers and concluded that we are a strange race. Of course, we complain if the roads are of poor standard – it should just be missing. But the jam we complain when the authorities do something about it as well. On the routes we drove, there was a lot of road work. Yes, it was actually so much roadwork that I felt a bit irritated. I was tired of waiting for a lead car on sections that were asphalted, I was somewhat irritated by all the roundabouts and impatiently waiting for green light in areas of great activity. When I became aware of my reactions, I was really a little embarrassed. Of course, the large amount of activity to which the government has committed will cause some disadvantage to us drivers while the work is going on. But instead of complaining, I and all the other drivers should rather be pleased with the great activity. It benefits us all, and in 2011 it will happen even more along the way. Then the budget for road maintenance is increased by a total of 60 pst. And there's absolutely no reason to be annoyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1493	Effective communication solutions are good enterprise policies, and they are good district policies, but they are also good policies to ensure the security of individuals. Better roads are essential for achieving a zero vision in relation to fatalities and serious injuries in traffic. Of the billion that the Right in its Alternative State Budget contributes as an increase in the transport budget, a total of 600 million. additional crowns allocated to pitfalls and other road safety measures in addition to those provided by the government in its proposal. These pitfalls and other measures of increased road safety are intended to be applied to the routes where this is assumed to have the greatest effect. In the previous budget debate, about a year ago, I had an article on traffic protection in the form of lighting on the E39, on the route between the county border of West Agder and up to Ålgård in Rogaland – the only unlit section on the road between Oslo and Stavanger. I had the hope that today I could thank the government and the State Council, Kleppa, for taking on this important challenge that had made the entire route between Oslo and Stavanger now had light. Unfortunately, I cannot thank you like this today. With the exception of a few kilometers, from Ålgård to a business area, Skur, which is a little outside, the situation is unfortunately the same as last year. I would therefore like to remind the State Council, Kleppa, that Vegvesenet has had a project group to assess different road safety measures, and it has concluded that the project for which society will have the most traffic safety in Rogaland per invested krone will be the lighting of the route on E39 from the border to West Agder to Ålgård. The cost of lighting this distance is estimated at approximately 58 million. kr. For 58 million. So we can get light along the entire distance between Oslo and Stavanger, by setting up light along the approx. The 80 km long trasé that still has no light. I will therefore repeat my call. I'm sorry that State Council Kleppa isn't in the room right now, but I hope she reads the minutes, and that she takes the call and the challenge in relation to lighting these last 80 km on the route between Oslo and Stavanger, which is still unlit. Traffic accidents cost society a lot, but the costs are highest for those who are themselves exposed to accidents, and their relatives — and of course also for ambulance workers and other auxiliary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1506	The government manifesto of the Stoltenberg II government for the period 2005-2009 reads as follows: ‘Kyst-Norway is important for the value creation of the country. This is why maritime transport and ports are an important part of transport policy. It is necessary to facilitate safe and coastal traffic, with better labelling and maintenance of the lease, modern navigation systems and charts. To get more goods on the boat, the ports have to be upgraded so that the transition to and from the boat is improved. Oil protection must be strengthened, and we must do more to prevent accidents from occurring and having disastrous consequences.’ Norway has a long-distance coastline where the conditions are initially very favourable for maritime transport, both freight and passenger transport. Nevertheless, some coastal routes have greater challenges when it comes to safe transport than others. And in particular, I'll call it the Stadhavet. There are not few casualties that have occurred on this piece of sea, with unfortunately great losses of human life. According to the insurance companies, on this piece of sea there is also the most transport damage to goods. It is also quite impossible to create conundrums and security with quick boat connections past City – this because weather conditions change so fast and so much. Passenger transport past Quicknake City would be so risky that it would not be possible to create trust in such a connection if one had to go outside the City Hall. Therefore, it is unlikely that the government will not support major progress with the City Ship Tunnel, which would totally eliminate the danger – for both freight and passenger traffic past City. In my view, the current government has been training this project since they took over power in 2005, with ever-increasing distributions. I therefore dare to make the claim that the government does not want to use the necessary government resources for this project. It is true that today there is great value creation along the West Coast. A project that would contribute to both increased value creation and bustness along the west coast is the 45-minute region. This is upgrading the route from Måløy to Florø. In my view, this is the most important road project in Sogn and Fjordane, and should come as soon as possible. The financing of this route is now being undertaken, which will also require co-financing by the State. I hope the government will be positive for this project when they get it to handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1524	The location of the ship's tunnel has been described in several landfills over the past few years. I am pleased that this is now part of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In this plan we say that we want the construction of this important stem project in the last half of the planning period, i.e. once after 2013. For all projects above NOK 500000, external quality assurance shall be known to be carried out, so-called KS1. The work on this is somewhat delayed, but I am pleased that it is planned to complete the quality assurance in the spring of 2011. Otherwise, the work on this major ship tunnel is on track in relation to the timetable estimated in the national transport plan. Coastal populations, industry and coastal tourism businesses have high expectations for this project. The autumn of 2007 was the concept selection from the Coastal Works in place. This distribution concluded with a positive socio-economic benefit. The fact that quality assurance, KS1, of this work is not yet in place, creates some frustration both for those who travel on the coast and for the coastal population. The tunnel will remove crossing of one of the most dangerous sea areas we have along our coast. Increased safety, increased safety and reduced waiting times are important for well boats, container ships, cargo ships, fishing boats, tourist ships, Hurtigruta and recreational boats. The location of the tunnel will paste this part of the coast, and one will have a much stronger and more rational construction and labour market region in this part of the country. With the tunnel, the travel pattern will change significantly in the North West – just think about what a fast boat route between Bergen and Ålesund will mean. The potential of this tunnel lies in e.g. tourism-right commercial activity, is large. The first ship tunnel in the world will itself attract tourists from both home and abroad. The LO leader, Roar Flåthen, said for a while back: ‘Trafficking affects us all, and City Ship Tunnel affects us all much more than we would believe. [[...]] I'm glad we're now keeping a strong focus on this matter. I – and many with me – expect the timetable that has been set to be kept. This is a national matter that will be decisive for people and businesses along the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1546	When I heard the beginning of the debate here today, I almost wondered if I could press the repeat button when there were many of the debaters in the room. The bear surface was about not giving tax relief, because then it went beyond well-being. But perhaps I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is more talk of tax relief towards increased red tape, and increased waste in public projects in the form of cost increases because of not using competition as an instrument. When the representative Gorm Kjernli sums up his percentage increases on various projects, it might be good to remember that the government we now have has experienced a freedom of action that hardly any other government has experienced, and that his percentages are not very impressive compared to the increases in the state's freedom of action in the form of increased revenues. But I wanted to say a little bit about a couple of things in the debate on traffic. Norway is a different country. We are outside of European cooperation, and we are an outpost in Europe. It might be important to think a little about how to ensure a link with the future structure of European transport. To put it directly: I can't see why Sweden should be particularly concerned about developing an infrastructure that meets Norwegian needs west of Karlstad and north of Uddevalla. It is therefore alarming that the Right is alone in wanting to intensify cooperation around the Nordic triangle and bet on stronger links with the trans-European transport network. Here my colleagues from Hedmark must have slept an hour, for this is a rather harmless remark, and it is remarkable that no one has joined. So I can put the question to the Council of State: Is the Nordic triangle a central wager, and why is it not mentioned in the government's papers? Then to rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox I assume that government fools around Rv. 2 now goes to the end. We were promised a proposition, and we've been promised the road for many years. But we were promised to start in 2010. The proposition has not yet come to Stortinget, and I assume that it will come just over New Year, and that it will also include planning funds for the period ahead. Traffic cooking on the left. 2 is formidable, and with the government's tax policy, it is probably even larger parts of Rome that are going to Sweden to act. Magnor competes with Svinesund for growth in border traffic and rv. 2 is a road that does not have a standard that can withstand that traffic. For South Hedmark, it's a very central project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1557	In June 2009, the Stortinget adopted its National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019. We then decided to spend 100 billion. kr more than in the previous period to expand roads, railways, ports and fairways here in the country. At the same time, it was clarified that the government will step into the economy as quickly as possible, but within the limits of a sound financial framework. This was followed up by the appropriations in 2010 and markedly phased in, and in the next year’s budget this is escalating further. Accordingly, the Government follows up the decision taken in the NTP. I have listened to the tediousness of the Right Mantra that they are promoting modern and new solutions for the development of transport projects. But what are they actually suggesting? Well, to bet on OPS and create a Mesta also for the Railway Works – these are not new and modern solutions. There are old solutions, which have been tried out before, and which many now go away from. Competing with core rail and road development and maintenance skills is risk sport. That's what I thought everyone had learned after the Bondevik government exercises in this area, which we still see negative effects of. One goal we share is to develop larger transport projects coherently, with predictable funding. OPS has been tested on three road development projects and the government has engaged TØI and Dovre International AS to evaluate them. Experience so far has shown that the OPS model has given faster project implementation and that the combination has been positive. However, it is not possible to demonstrate either higher or lower costs than traditional implementation or optimisation of life-cycle costs. On the contrary, the evaluation points out that the OPS carrier’s approximate monopoly on implementing changes to the road system is a major challenge and could lead to increased life-cycle costs. In addition, OPS commits large sums to the annual budgets and reduces the space for action. There are several governments in the wake of the financial crisis. The government of Stoltenberg has, first of all, given priority to spending more money than ever on transportation. Three major investment projects – E6 west of Alta, E16 and the Oslo-Ski railway project, which is part of the Eastfold Railway, are listed under own headings in the State budget, which will provide coherent and predictable development of these major development projects. In addition, work has been started on, inter alia: new contract strategies and investigation of new high-speed rail solutions. This is modern transport policy. Finally, I would like to point out that, through this government, we have achieved a predictable, high and very necessary railway priority. At the same time, we in the East have experienced great delays and problems in the last few winters, and this winter is no exception. The train commuters are a patient people's behaviour, but they're getting tired, even on the Eastfold course. It is therefore important that the adopted investment and maintenance projects in the intercity triangle be implemented and that the use of the resources is the priority of the Railway Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1572	In the Kristiansand region 1 billion shall be used. of locally collected tolls to build bicycle paths and to invest in public health work. In addition, there are plans to finance bus operations with tolls. Cycle paths, bus operations and public health are all positive and good measures. But what is not okay is that the money should be collected from other planned road projects, with the tolls collected today or planned to be collected in the future. New roads that are being exposed may be the result. We're getting suspensions on upgrading roads. Temporary works may be exposed and road safety measures may generally be put at risk. As a result, increasing the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic may be the result. It is no longer useful to hide behind the fact that these are locally desired measures. That is the policy of the minister and the government, and the municipalities all over the country know it. They know only too well that it is this government's philosophy to depriorize road and road safety and to give priority to charging those who have to use a car, cost what it will cost. Municipalities very often see it as their only way to impose on those who have to use a car the maximum amount of taxes and taxes in order to achieve a certain degree of local road safety. The problem is that the toll pot in Kristiansand and elsewhere is a certain amount that is available, and the problem is that the Minister of Transport is playing with monopoly money when she gradually opens up to the dilution of tolls for all sorts of good projects over a long time. It's just not enough tolls. Once you've agreed to collect tolls, it's not enough available to bet on as strong a road development as the Minister of Transport claims, and at the same time drain the toll pot in the way that the government has set up over a long period of time. Then the Minister of Transport must spend the same money several times or bring fresh funds to keep what she promises. The Kristiansand region urgently needs all the money we can get to expand the E39, Gartnerløkka in Kristiansand to the Seeking Border in the first place, plus much more. We cannot wait for years of investigations, and we cannot allow the government's policy of constantly diluting the tolls that have been decided against our will, despite our policies. You have to stop looking at tolls as a purely fiscal tax equal to taxes on ordinary labour income.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1586	I outlined earlier today the ambitious railway and collective effort of the Left. However, I would like to challenge the Minister of Transport on a local matter that I have been introduced to. Local left-wing people have from early in the planning process pointed out that a railway line along Mjösa and Vorma will involve major natural interventions. In addition, it will have a curve that will limit the competitiveness of the train. Thus, the level of this track with speed-limiting curves of 130 km/h and 200 km/h does not correspond to the Stortinge’s requirement that new double tracks should be designed for at least 250 km/h. The planned standard makes profitable operation and a competitive train offer with cars and aeroplanes difficult. Today's railway crossing Eidsvoll-Hamar has been there for 130 years. Now, when we're building a new building, it's not just for the next ten to fifteen years. We have to be able to think 50-100 years ahead. If we are to achieve the necessary greenhouse gas emission targets, many measures are required. The transport sector is responsible for high environmental emissions and therefore has a special responsibility. An obvious measure is to build a competitive rail dimensional for continuous high speed. On such a track we can drive both regional trains and lightning trains to replace much of today's polluting and energy-intensive air and road traffic. Can the Minister for Transport guarantee that this route will follow the decisions taken by the Stortinget with regard to the design of double tracks for speeds of at least 250 km/h? Does the Minister for Transport see the challenge of the planned trajectory in the coastal zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1597	On 1 December it was 14 years since the reorganisation of the NSB, and we got the establishment of the Railway Agency. I think it was still right to do the organisational grips that were then done, and to that extent we did not really have a choice based on the EEA legislation on the distinction between infrastructure and operators on the railway. A lot of positive has happened to the railway in the 14 years that have gone by, among other things. There are several trains running, the rail offer is significantly improved, but I will also take the opportunity to take a critical look at how we have organised ourselves in the railway sector. Many noticed the game that was going on for a long time between the NSB and the Railway Agency on the expansion of the Lysaker station. I have followed and tried to get involved earlier in a matter that concerned a certain holding position on the Kongsvingerbahn. The game that was going on between the Railway Agency, the NSB and the State Railway Authority is really amazing – what went on with money and annual work in such a stuff before a conclusion was reached. Not to mention how difficult it is to get done with access parking spaces around the public nodes in the Oslo area. The NSB is responsible for some of the buildings, the Railway Agency is responsible for other things, and as if that's not enough, the NSB has organized its property operations in something called Rome Eiendom, and it's completely impossible to get someone to show leadership and lead the way and put the cabinet in place. We can't have it that way. We have to organise the railway business in a different way than what we do today. When I hear the opposition say that they want to have their own roadside supervision, I really say, please! Someone wants a Nav agent and someone wants a bully, and I don't know what. We don't need any more directorates, supervisors and agents. We manage ourselves in the heart of this country. We need more money for production, and if I have a little concern, it is when I see the job ads in the evening post. The major appropriations now made available to the Railway Agency must not go to any more executive posts in the administration. They have to go to build the railway. Finally, do not let organisational problems between the NSB and the Railway Agency prevent what was previously called Route Plan 2012. I understand that there are delays, but there has to be an obligating plan on the table for when we can get an increase in the rail service in the Oslo area. And all organizational obstacles must be cleared off the road!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1612	I had to look up twice to see which party Myrli belongs to, and I am pleased to note that we were in line in several respects. So to the government and the position that says they're going to keep the promises. If you're going to keep going like this, you're not going to keep the promises. In 1975, the train went from Ashim to Oslo five minutes faster than it does in 2010, and there have been no more stations. If you come at an unfortunate time and drive five miles from Spydeberg to the capital, you spend five miles more than two hours in a rush. I tried it on a study trip when I did not get the train. I guess it's a good idea to leave the car alone, but then the train has to go. I also want to make a visit to the representative Bjørnflaten, who did not respond to the representative Halleraker's reply as to why the government parties would not be on criteria for what is good. It's not very long since we had a fatal accident in Finnmark, where the conclusion was that the road standard was contributing to the accident. This is the practical consequence of our not being able to obtain criteria for what is good — also as a basis for having roadside supervision. Then to the representative Gorm Kjernli, who thought that people in Eastfold had to be asked to bring happiness here in the country, and folk party was the name when we got eight kilometers new road and bridge in Inner Eastfold. I'm going to be the first to say that's absolutely excellent. But eight kilometers is not very much to yell for when we know that the planters had to pack up after the road section was opened, both excavators, dumpers and what was, and have to be restored to the next stretch, once we round the summer of 2011. It must be difficult to find your own arguments when you have to go eight years back, until 2002, in order to find reasons for your own position on the road and rail. I can recommend the representative, Kjernli, to go back another eight years in terms of the Stoltenberg I government. Thus, the government cancelled an ongoing reorganisation of the railway works less than three weeks after they arrived in the government offices, without any impact assessment and with a possible breach of the investigative obligation. I think it is the way – to the representative Bjørnflaten – that the government and the position must also take responsibility for it. The result was that good people stopped, and the government was responsible for a poor predictability with the manning railway station when the stairs were up, and the private were not allowed to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1627	For us who live in Akershus, the train is one of the most important means of arriving, for our inhabitants. People take the train to get to and from work and to and from school. Hence, it is unlikely that we have a government that is really betting on rail and new trains. When the train is delayed, there are almost 80,000 people either coming late for work or perhaps not getting picked up in the kindergarten in the afternoon. This is not good enough, and therefore I am unlikely to be happy with the efforts to be made throughout the Oslo area, with better route provision and improvements on existing railways. It's actually here in Akershus that we can really get a climate effect, because when so many people want to use the train, it will monna. Efficient and environmentally friendly public transport is perhaps best where it is tightest with people, and many people travel along the same path at the same time. Nearly a quarter of the country's population lives in Oslo and Akershus. But the capacity of the rail network in the east is detonated. Large quantities of passenger and freight transport that could actually have gone by road have to go by road. I must therefore say that I am unlikely to be satisfied that all the political parties agree that new double tracks between Oslo and Ski have the highest priority, and that this is the largest and most important single project in the national transport plan. Some of us have known this for a very long time. Now I can also report that it is being worked at Ski Station, a sight that the machines are running, and that something is happening to the commuters – at least it will be a great pleasure. I take note of the remarks that the opposition is almost trying to compete for better than the government on train duty, and especially on Oslo-Ski. I want to say that for the project itself, it's very good with great commitment. But with the history of Bondevik II's missing train effort fresh in memory, I think it's best for the Oslo-Ski project with a red-green government. It had to be a red-green government to get started, and it's a red-green government that can also complete the stretch. It is important that Oslo–Ski is planned as part of a holistic strategy for the new Eastfold Railway, and that it is worked in such a way that it can also become part of the future high-speed route. It's a pleasure with the new tunnel that's been decided, 19 km train tunnel in two, between Oslo and Ski. When the new double track is in place, you can come from Ski to Oslo in 10 minutes. Then it'll be as central to live on Ski as it is on Majorstua.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1638	A little over two weeks ago, in my municipality of Ashim, we opened this year's longest route with a new European road, E18 between Ashim and Spydeberg. The road is good with a nice bridge and a tunnel, which we don't have so many in Eastfold. This has been a cross-political agreement since the 1990s, before the red-green government took its seat. We have been given a European road while at the same time being able to care for the important winter spot of the bat in the same mountain. It turns out it's possible to build a road at the same time as we take care of nature. The road opening would have been a much better day if we had known that we were coming to Millenfry on a new European road by 2017, not to drive a carousel, but because E18 is Norway's second most important road in terms of goods to and from our country. Today's standard is not good enough. It is therefore alarming that the government parties here at Stortinget have no idea of further progressing the new E18 through Østfold and Akershus, since the distance is not worth any remarks in the year's budget position. In 1882, the eastern line through Eastfold was opened. We train commuters are happy in our line, despite the patience being put to the test every week. Punctuality is very bad, but we're thinking: New day, new opportunities! Now we're going to be a pilot project for the railway station's new signalling system. The others got a signal system in the 1960s and 1970s. We're going to get it over the next few years. Our clear message is that this must not lead to any further delays in the daily departures. As users of the eastern line, we are pleased with the mention of station measures in this year's budget. The government's message to the Stortinget is clear in relation to the stations Dreamtorp, Skotbu, Knapstad, Langnes and Askim Food Park. It states that measures are already being planned. Then my hope will be that the Minister of Transport's underlying offices will understand what message the government sends to Stortinget through this year's budget. Unfortunately, the government has given railway development through Moss red light – red light because there is no capacity in the light signals. This is regrettable, and it is quite unclear what it really is about when the planning and development director last week told the NRK Østfold that there is planning capacity and that it is not the biggest problem. This collapse has received no other notice than the message from the government, which is stated in the proposition, that there is no capacity. It regrets the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1653	We have heard throughout this debate that the government parties boast of their commitment to trade. I understand that they need to find something positive in the everyday life when most of the time they disagree. Nevertheless, it is important to have facts on the table, and it unfortunately appears that the government party is far behind its own promises in the national transport plan. Then it is all the more pleasant to show that the Right follows its promises and comes with the efforts of time on the road. 1 billion. kr more than the government’s proposals in addition to the OPS bet and the maintenance fund means a formidable commercial investment. When we know that trafficking is the second most important measure to create growth and development in the whole country, this is a strong signal that the Right will facilitate the development of nutrition and value creation at a high rate. There are many important road projects in our region. I am very pleased that there are means to complete the Kvivsweg, the new E39 route between Nordfjord and Sunnmøre, and that the project around the Rasutsätt Hjartåberga will also be launched. Right also wants to facilitate a bet on the coastal road between Bergen and Ålesund. The 45-minute region between Florø and Måløy is a good example of that, and right already has the promise to support this project with 200 million. kr when this extension comes to handling. As part of the Right's powerful commitment to trade, the Right will start up three to five OPS projects per year. That's why it's also set at 200 million. kr for the planning of such projects. For Sogn and Fjordane, that means something. that the Right will build the Town Tunnel as an OPS project, and that means a massive redundancy of this project. While red-green politicians resort and argue about more distribution, Right will take action. Right's bet on OPS also opens up for several projects in Sogn and fjords that can be built with ordinary means. Reference is made to the sections on E39 between Førde and Hornindal and Kjøs bru–Grodås as examples of such sections. It is clear that OPS will relieve the ordinary promises, and it will ensure more money for road construction in Sogn and Fjordane as well. The third measure of the Right's initiative in the field of trade is to be set by 50 billion. kr to a maintenance fund. This will happen at the top of the ordinary permissions for maintenance. If the Right's proposal to set aside such a maintenance fund had been agreed last year, we would have had 2 billion. extra for road maintenance this year. For Sogn and Fjordane, this would mean 132 million. kr more for road maintenance, and it would make way for the well in our county as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1674	The representative, Gorm Kjernli, could tell that for them to join the Railway Agency, it has become more dangerous. I thought that was very good. One of the challenges is that for the train passengers it has not been farfetched. That is why I was also pleased that the representative Gorm Kjernli said he had learned a lot about good and bad links to the train effort. He also said that what had been thinking behind a train revolution, now had become a train reform, a route reform in 2012 or in the future. The challenge is that we do not know what time this reform will take. As a natural follow-up to Kjernli's contribution, I would like to say that what is now important is that the railway works will enable them to complete their planning work and ensure that we get there as quickly as possible with the Route Plan 2012. I also think it is important that we do not let it go one year until we are determined when this plan is to be implemented. I think it will be too long, and it seems that I am an important signal to the State Council Kleppa. There are many good words to the Christian People's Party today – not so many from the Progress Party. For me, it is a little special to get criticism of our budget from the Progress Party. Gunnar Stavrum, editor of Nettavisen, says: ‘Frp on its own planet. The budget of the Progress Party is as realistic as adopting nice weather and lifting the law of gravity. Today, Mr Frp presented his alternative state budget. While other parties make budget proposals that can be launched, the Frp budget is at best an illustration.» That's the challenge. The challenge is also that the Progress Party does not decide what to mean. If we go back in the budgetary settings in the transport sector – and we don't have to go beyond seven to eight years back – the Progress Party writes that the railway is «smallly suitable as an efficient mode of transport in a country such as Norway where there is a low population density». It's in very contrast to the billions that they're bringing to the railway today. We know that yesterday there was a debate in the Chamber on pension, and there the Progress Party fulfilled all the promises. This means that if they are not included in the user funding, the only option for the Progress Party is to raise the taxes. In fact, if we don't have user funding, the only answer is 100 pst. tax financing of road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1695	To the OPS debate: the Norwegian State does not need to finance expansions with loans. The real nature of expenditure and its effects on the economy are not altered by private financing of transport projects. Funding other than the ordinary State budget, which pushes the expenditure on future government budgets, will also undermine the rule of action and weaken the state budget as a fiscal instrument. In a reply to Halleraker earlier today, I asked if the Right knew how much was going to be tied up in the future budget compared to the proposals they have on the OPS project. I did not get an answer. Last year, however, the Ministry of Transport calculated that the right-wing OPS projects would bind up the entire road budget in instalments of 2023 or 2024. I would be very surprised if the Right believes that there will be no need for new road projects and road maintenance when that time comes. In debates on this topic, the opposition refers to how well this works in other countries. The star example has been the United Kingdom in the past. The UK Finance Minister now says that the OPS projects have contributed to the high debt it now needs to deal with in the wake of the financial crisis, and the Conservative Government will now replace OPS schemes by completely different ways of financing public projects. So far about the problems the British have with OPS. The Swedish Minister of Finance believes that OPS reduces the scope of fiscal policy action and that private capital is more expensive than the State. And in Hungary, no new OPS project will be launched after the centre-right coalition has taken over. We are committed to making the best use of resources, and we are engaged in effective and coherent expansions over longer distances, but this can be done within the budgetary system we have today. E6 between Colomoen and Gardermoen was built faster than the OPS project E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand. I also refer to three major investment projects that are listed on their own items in the State budget, with the benefits it has for stable financing. There is also work to assess new forms of contract combining operation, maintenance and development of the road standard. Some words for a completely different matter that is mentioned in the setting. I refer to a point on equality and a note from the Progress Party: ‘It is offensive for a woman to know that when she is to have a place in a government, it is sex that matters most, and not competence and suitability.’ If this is a description of reality, I wonder how many men over the years should have felt hurt for the same reason!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1717	I'll talk about research and planning. The aim of transport research is to provide basic knowledge of the transport market, the effects of transport, new technological opportunities and transport policy instruments with a view to more efficient, more environmentally friendly and safe transport. Transport policy is characterised by complex interactions and difficult balances between good and disadvantages. Political decisions must therefore be based more on a research-based knowledge base. Research efforts are proposed to focus on three strategic areas: climate-related research, smarter freight and logistics solutions and transport security. For my part, I would like to point out the targeted research on the different modes of transport's advantages and disadvantages. It is necessary for a decision to be taken in principle on the means of transport on which it is to be invested. Here it is important to focus on the energy consumption measured in passenger kilometres and tonne-kilometres. Energy consumption and the type of energy used are crucial in the fight against climate change. In this overall transport policy, it is important how county municipalities prioritise and involve all areas of society in their planning. It is therefore with joy and great interest that I follow the work of the regional planning strategies. This will determine which ones are. My kingdom, Sogn and Fjordne, shall be established. Transport has been developed as an important area and as a means of achieving other goals for the development of society in the county. This work will specifically focus on the following: Enterprise needs for good infrastructure and the impact of a service that may not meet its needs. Visions for the movement effort must be interpreted, and transport as a means of achieving the desired social development. Strategic commitment to transport in order to create more well-functioning urban and labour market areas is important, as well as analysing commuter flows. It's often a neglected area. We need stronger links between land and maritime transport. And we definitely need to focus on the development of the main road network and the supply routes. And what's really interesting is that it's now being seen in the forward direction and across the boundaries. Failure to do so has often prevented one from seeing the transport needs of a country in relation to the needs of the neighbouring state. This is now given a clearer focus as it will work on a common transport plan for the whole of the West. So my conclusion is that regional transport planning has a good and clear perspective. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1750	My conclusion is that speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1753	Then another westerner took over the staf stick. E134 Haukelivegen is the main transport year – the trade route – between the East and the West, or the West and the East, if this is the starting point. For large parts of this area, 134 Haukelivegen is in practice the only realistic alternative, and all the predictions ahead show an explosion in the use of the road, not least in view of Bergen when the Jondal tunnel opens, when Hardangerbrua arrives, and there are some other solutions, which means that Haukelivegen, which is an important road today, will become more important and important in the future. Now AS Haukelivegen, owned by almost all the municipalities along the route – in Rogaland, Hordaland, Telemark and Buskerud – has established a separate toll company that prioritises the most important project, namely two tunnels through Röldal/Haukeli area, past Seljestad. The industry on this route has asked for this to be given a strong priority by the Ministry of Transport. The toll company was established a few weeks ago, and there are great expectations that the Minister of Transport will have the progress to make the regulatory plans. The feasibility studies developed by Vegvesen show that this is possible. You wait for the Drafts Committee, you wait for the Ministry of Transport, so you can start. And then you probably wait for one more thing: an instrument when you don't have good enough government appropriations for transportation purposes – then you have to bite in the sour apple in relation to tolls. The cost of building long tunnels in Norway today is so high that it is a regional and local desire to start ex ante toll collection on the route – it is the desire of industry and a local political desire. There is something the Council of State should prepare to have an opinion about, so that we can get a start fairly soon. E134 is the backbone of the transport system between Haugesund, Sunnhordland, Hardanger, Bergen in the west, Grenland, Vestfold, the entire Oslo area and the export routes in the east. This road is connected to all the main ports in South Norway. So it actually plays an important role in it as, among other things, has been in the position of the Minister of Fisheries today to obtain transport from road to port. This is then an incredibly important road that meets this need. My post is a follow-up to a question-time question to State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa: there is an impatience from a comprehensive western land area here. And there she has an obligation to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1769	The northern regions are the most important strategic investment for Norway, including in transport, but obviously not for this government. They don't want rail from South Varanger and Finnmark to Russia, and the railway network there, and they don't want an investigation of a coast road in Finnmark, which we've been waiting for – done planned before World War II. They obviously don't want air traffic there either. The increase in landing and en route charges and the increase in climate quota charges are causing negative results. In today's North Light we can read that there are sky-high air fares in the north. The business community is going to take a course in Kirkenes, take a flight from Hammerfest to Kirkenes. The flight price is more than NOK 9000. If you compare the flight price in North Norway to flying in the rest of the world, it's like if you're on an on-shore plane and you're flying from Mo in Rana to Vadsø and the trip takes four hours, it's $9,938. On the other hand, if you take the journey between 12.5 and 15 hours, you get the same flight ticket to NOK 6293. Where else in the world do we come for these sums? Yeah, we're going to Los Angeles, we're going to Hong Kong, we're going to Honolulu and we're going to Cape Town. That's the daily situation in the north. Then other representatives have to stand on the platform and say that this is not so bad. This is actually the worst! It's so bad that as a nation we can't live with it. And why does this kind of situation arise? Well, it occurs because Onkøe has two types of booking options. One option is through the regular service running on state purchases, the other is that of commercial purchases. If you buy an airline ticket on the commercial, this is the price in Finnmark. And if there's anyone here in the house who can say with his hand on his heart that these are flight prices a part of the country can live with, I don't know what to say. But it's cheaper for companies in Finnmark to organize seminars in Crete than it is to go within their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1780	Ingerd Schou has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1783	The representative of Sønsterud was involved in public-private financing. Then I think I should remind you that it's not just about funding, it's about a method. The point is to tie up funding, build continuously, faster and together. And I notice that it doesn't want the government parties – they won't tie up, they won't commit. It offers future generations the prospect of inheriting a worn-out railway. It can't be bad. Last week a report was submitted showing that the competitive outsourcing on the Gjøvik course had been good for both travellers, businesses and employees. There we record that the government will continue to hold a train monopoly. The competition works and offers better offers. In today's news we have also heard that the Swedes have now got a so-called cheap company on the railway, and if not the Flytrain is, I would not have ignored the fact that it would have been beneficial for travellers to get it on the east line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1790	The Minister of Transport took us on a verbal journey along the E39. We would probably be able to get the same impression elsewhere too: that there are new projects that have been completed and new projects in progress. But she forgot one essential thing, namely to tell who financed this. She forgets to tell us that in the overall picture it is actually that the drivers pay large parts of the government's so-called road effort, that tolls under this particular government have become one of the main pillars in financing road development in Norway. It's a development that we are strongly opposed to, and that we are deeply concerned about. There is a large extra tax that is applied each year to all those who use the road in Norway. And the concern is no less when we see that more of that money is spent on completely different things than the way, that others have been in here today. It's accusations against the Progress Party that we're irresponsible, that we're on another planet, and that we're gonna blow every frame. The balance between being irresponsible in particular in investment and being responsible is, to a large extent, a political point. Let me illustrate it quickly with two things: the one is the final aging, where in six months it shows up over 40 billion. kr more because of more income and less expense than the government proposed just six months ago. The second is the cost framework for the lightning project, which lies somewhere between 300 billion. kr and 500 br. kr. If it's built within such a frame, it's about 30-50 billion. kr more. I expect that it will take up to ten years to build. So where you put the point of balance for the irresponsible and responsible to invest – because that’s essentially what the Progress Party is proposing, and that’s where the big bet in the Progress Party’s alternative budget is, it’s on investment – see, it’s a political point of view and a political point of view. We think it would be irresponsible to spend as much as 300-500 billion. kr on a large project, compared to the fact that the national transport plan we now have and relate to, is actually a waiting list for projects. There is a waiting list for road projects, waiting list for railway projects. We believe that with a new financing tool and other financing tool, we can implement the waiting list faster than the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1797	There'll be a lot of talk about organization. But the feeling of attack on an office that we politicians are responsible for, for which the representative Schou presented in his first post, I didn't think I should hear in this room. I do not recognize myself in this description of the Railway Agency, and I distance myself from the representative Schou's criticism. The working party is occupied by a working railway station. We think we get it by making demands and by giving the appropriations that are needed. After hearing the representative Schous harange against the Railway Agency, I wonder at one thing – now that Schou has already burned his speaking time, but perhaps others from the Right can answer it: if the Right really thinks the Railway Agency is as bad as they claim, how should it suddenly get better by turning the same railway system into an AS? You change your organisation and the same company has to completely change its form. I don't share the reality description to the Right, but you have to be a right-wing politician and hooked on the AS to get that argument. We make demands on the Railway Agency, and we give the appropriations that are needed. So I don't have to go back eight years in time. But when I went eight – and five – years back in time and found the same allocation, I think it illustrates a point. I can take the Right Alternative Budget for this year and what's next year. There's a lot of writing about crossing tracks. But you don't have one penny for railway investment for crossing tracks beyond government budget proposals. So I'm recording that the government's appropriations for investments in the railway sector are being followed up – and then this fund solution has its right on maintenance. So to Route Plan 2012: I'm glad that the representative Hareide was very close to my post, and I agree with the representative Hareide that this is urgent. I spent a lot of time doing it in my first post. In the election, government parties have asked the Council of State to come back as soon as possible and at the latest in the 2012 government budget. The measures that need to be put in place need to be clarified and cost-effective. Then all the work now done on the railway with renewal and upgrading will also provide a better train service before 2012. You can see the effect of the summer closure you had from the Oslo tunnel. Things have gotten better. Next year, we're also going to shut down the Oslo Tunnel to rust up. The rail offer will be better. So it's urgent to put in place the route conversion that Route Plan 2012 involves. I look forward to the Council of State returning as soon as possible, at the latest in the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1808	The government has increased the effort to the railway by about 70 pst., and this has resulted in a force for maintenance and renewal of the railway – no matter what the right-hand side says. We have tripled the investment in new train lines, and in two years the level will be four times higher than when the bourgeois ruled the country, with the Progress Party as an important supporter. The large investments have also had an impact in Central Norway, and I am pleased about that. In 2010, extensive replacement of tracks and bows, etc., was carried out. over Dovrefjell. The quality of the track is now so good that with some smaller investments we should be able to get the trains up to 250 km/h. It's good over Dovreberg. That's why the track has to get further 116 million. kr next year. And we're very happy to see that the tunnel between the Gewingåsen can be opened next autumn. Then we're talking about a tunnel almost a mile. It costs a lot of money – 725 million. kr. But then we connect the North and South Tree layers even better, and there are many who have been waiting for. We had not realized that the appropriations for the railway had come at a civil pace. In two years we're going to have a new transport plan up. SV will work hard to raise the investment on the railway further, to get even more good and green transport solutions in central Norway and in the rest of the country into that plan. SV wants to get even more commuter traffic across the railway both north and south of Trondheim. As the President knows, the Trender Railway between Steinkjer and Trondheim is a success, and we will stand on hard to get this offer to be just as good also south of the tower capital. People in Trøndelag want more traction on the railway. That's why it's a pleasure that the government in the railway lift has put off 1 billion. to reduce the driving time for trains between Trondheim and Steinkjer, and to increase the capacity for both freight and passenger traffic. We want to electrify both the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen, and you have to see these two projects in the context. It will have a major impact on business and on the settlement of the region. We also have great ambitions to look into the future with a cross-border midway project. So I'd like to say a little bit about the reward scheme in Trondheim. They've gotten well with money, more than Oslo and Bergen combined, and it's because there's a red-green regime in the city that has understood the importance of reducing fossil energy consumption in traffic. We want even more measures for the soft road users. So we want to reduce traffic. We're going to get people to go and ride a bike, and then we're going to have to build multiple routes and bike paths. Gains will be reduced health problems, fewer traffic accidents and shorter rush times. People... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1834	Unfortunately, speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1837	In its position 2 S on page 22 of the Financial Committee, it is important that the Government parties are pleased with the escalation of the investment funds for transport. It is important that what happens this year is ‘in line with previously communicated escalation’. But then it also says that it appears as: ‘a demanding task to realise all the projects in the current transport plan. The majority will continue to express impatience in the follow-up to the National Transport Plan 2010–2019’. The Ministry of Transport has facilitated new forms of contract. That's good. This means that one can take total enterprise prices, planning and implementation. Following the assessment of the Central Party in the Storting, it is not appropriate to enter into OPS contracts because it is poor country financing. Countries that have enough money do not borrow money for such investments. However, the Ministry of Finance is based on the principle of cash, and that is a good principle. However, as it works, investment in transport is systematically lost in relation to the improvement of the welfare offer, because any investment is spent on the year in which the investment comes, while welfare improvements are phased in at parts of a year's cost, and then last forever. The system is also such that investment loses in practical policy. What is our task in Stortinget is to consider what is always reasonable and necessary in terms of its time and circumstances. Increased investment is needed, and there are available civil engineering resources, not least around us in Europe. I want to draw attention to something the Prime Minister said in the evening post on November 12th this year, where the headline was: «Stoltenberg accepts loss for the Oil Fund. Europe’s debt crisis is re-extinguishing’. The question from the journalist was, ‘Norway and the Oil Fund are willing to go on a click?’ The Prime Minister answers: ‘No one wants to lose money. But I understand the European countries that say you can't guarantee any private investor against any loss. It is about something more fundamental: we cannot develop an economy where we privatise profits and socialise losses Through the Oil Fund, Norway is among the major lenders of the state in several indebted European countries. [[...]] At the end of the third quarter, the oil fund had government debt securities worth $600 billion." We are facing a situation where we are likely to lose money on the oil fund – the state pension fund abroad – also in government bonds. Then it must be necessary to think again. We need to separate investments and operations from the rules of action, so that we can today invest more resources in communications. It is both economically sound and prudent and is highly safe. That's what people ask for. We have to think new.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1860	I have to look twice at which parties the previous speakers and Sverre Myrli actually represent, as I experienced as a couple of representatives who definitely do not talk about their own party policies in this room at least. But that's interesting what they're coming with, and a lot of that we can do well. Firstly, it is good that one government council has at least come to realize that the Progress Party will use the excavator now. We're going to make sure that after 2013 – hopefully – even more excavators are started, and one should start building both roads and railways and broadband and more. That's what we're looking forward to. When I heard the representative Bratli, it reminded me a little about the people and the robbers in Cardamom City and Aunt Sofie, when she was going to tell me how terrible everyone else was, and what one is doing in relation to this with road safety. I also noticed that the government's parties have spent a lot of time in line changers talking about road safety. But I record that there is one thing they are not talking about, namely, the use of a safety belt. This may mean that when the Prime Minister does not use seat belts, it may not be very important in road safety work. I definitely believe that using a seat belt and having a campaign to get people to use a seat belt is very important to reduce the number of accidents on our road network – just as we say that on the roads that are good, and that are built to withstand a higher speed limit, it might make sense to increase the speed limit. So we might at some point be able to reduce the speed limit because it's natural, because the road is not in a position to tackle the speed limit that's there. In this regard, I would like – when the Council of State took us on a trip here earlier today, and tried to be a little fluffy in the line change with the undersigned – to invite the Council of State to join me home to Telemark, to come home with me to Bamble. Instead of setting up new investigations to discuss whether we're going to have a bridge over the fjord, or whether we're going to use the E18 that we have there, we can get faster to get dead right away to start figuring out other alternatives. Then you can join in and see the consequences of automatic traffic monitoring over distances, ATK. She can join in and look at uninvited distances that there's not going to happen to anything, neither to the next year and probably not the year after that either, but maybe in three or four or five years. This is about road safety on routes where there are many accidents, so I really hope that the Council of State will accept this invitation, as I know she has also received from the action group on E18 and others. Just as we want to give priority to getting started as quickly as possible and stop considering other alternatives that are really just there to postpone the processes, I'm going to challenge the Council of States: why can't you put the shovel in the ground on the Eidanger track, which is ready for fine action? We want to do that. So I think it's sad to listen to the SV representative who wants to send Oslo into the gallows because they're betting and have done something about public transport, while Trondheim, who hasn't done anything yet, gets money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1875	Talking about others' posts as "flocked" is inappropriate in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1878	It is obvious that the representative Hoksrud has not understood or registered that the government parties practice social criticism in a much more constructive way than he has ever been in the vicinity of. In addition, I can disclaim the claim by the representative Hoksrud that the roads in Westfold are in the process of disintegrating. It's on the contrary! Billion E18 investments through Westfold and increased maintenance efforts have contributed significantly to raising the road standard in the county. Prosperity is relatively good, although traffic is high and we have problems with some bottlenecks in times. But they are gradually cleared away, and in just a few years the continuous four-field road through the whole county is. Although right now we have a small problem that the Minister of Transport may help clear the way. In the budget proposal, the Ministry says that they will present a toll proposition for the Gulli-Langåker E18 section as soon as adequate clarifications are available. Now it has been a little unclear which clarifications the department is aiming for, but the problem is that it is now urgent if development is to start in the spring as planned. Well, development projects can be published on tenders, subject to the approval of the Stortinge, but it is almost a prerequisite that the Stortinge has a proposition to deal with. Gulli-Langåker is a toll project. The progress party will programmically oppose this, as in all other toll projects they are dealing with. Therefore, we should be happy to see that the Progress Party has no influence on the transport policy – I had almost said: not there either. In that case, we would not have had four-field road from Oslo to Tønsberg. We wouldn't be doing the Sky-Langang, and we could've scraped Gulli-Langåker. Then we would have the same situation as the one in the Tønsberg area, where the Progress Party once had political influence and managed to push a very crowded road development into an uncertain future. There they promised without a bomb. We got a bomb without a road. Now it's a long way to go until the 2013 big shot, and today's polls may change within that time. But now there is a danger that the Progress Party may have influence, and then we almost have to ask their partner, Right, who has relinquished their economic policy, whether the Right is also willing to repel the Toll Policy of the Progress Party – because it is also necessary for this party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1893	First to Gullvåg. This is a question I have answered several times. If I were to get into a situation where I'd have the opportunity to spend as much money on government budgets as the toll companies have tied up in loans, I think I'd find out a lot more to spend that money than to repay those loans. Then it's black again. So to a little line exchange that we had earlier today, with the words 'not so bad' as the description of the transport budget and the budget for coastal and fisheries, respectively. There were two boys who said this, and then the Council of State reiterated that there was enough coastal action on Bømlo as well. But that's not what we were after. It was just to express the liberality that characterizes the people of Bømlo that we said ‘not so bad’. State councillor Meltveit Kleppa was out of the hall for a little while, and then she got a few questions from Gunnar Gundersen that I'll be allowed to repeat. It was a remark about the Nordic triangle, about why you don't have a focus on it and would be on – as he expressed it – a little harmless remark about promoting it as an important matter in the discussions with our Nordic friends. Then he also asked about the status of the proposition for rv. Two, that's what they say. Then I think it was good that Meltveit Kleppa took us on the journey along the E39. I just missed a big and important project, and it's Hordfast, who's going to be a ferry-free connection between Stord and Bergen. What's the worm in that project, and which is actually a little disappointing, is that the Progress Party in its comments to the State Budget maintains the old solution with ferry connection between Tysnes and Os. I must express my disappointment at that. To Irene Johansen, as I see she has left the hall: she was concerned with a note that she herself wrote about Mesta and the state road development department in connection with the treatment of NTP. But what's clearly gone past her house is what's in this year's budget, where the department has assessed what the government's parties wrote and says it's not appropriate to go back to a model with its own production operations in the state's road system. You can read about this on page 74 of the proposition. That's it. So we could have a long discussion about OPS. I can't do that. I just want to say, at the bottom of my post, that Sverre Myrli I don't want to do any cheap right points on. I think it's great that you're a realist even if you come from the government parties. We could learn a lot from that, a lot of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1908	And now Halleraker can learn even more. Mr. Ingerd Schou has really been in the debate today. She said she had to see twice to see which party I was from. I can say to her and so far to Bård Hoksrud as it says in the song: «Red as my roaring blood». I belong to a party and a movement that is happy in the railway. That is why I am also concerned about how we use the money and how we organize to get the most possible and best possible railway. I believe that we, as growth representatives, must be involved in all sectors – health, defence, police, road, rail and other sectors. That is why I also corrected the opposition, which is now proposing to establish my own roadside supervision. For what does that lead to? Even more bureaucracy, even more administration, even more people in the office – less money out in the field. I think it was interesting that it was just Schou who challenged me on this -- Schou, who was part of the Bondevik II government. What was the case then? Well, the Bondevik government called off the pedestrians at the railroad station. The workers out in the field, or rather out in the puck -- those who could the electrical system in the Oslo tunnel and those who could do other things to make the railway work every single day -- got final packages from Schou and the right-wing government. People who went to work every day and were happy about their job got money either to start competing businesses or to think about other things. After all, we are still struggling today with the disappearance of a lot of key staff in the railway works because the previous government manned down. Fortunately, we've turned it around, and fortunately, there's been a lot of work done in the last five years, after we ended up with the right hand rule. It brings me to what should be my last words in this debate: To get a line on the railways in Norway – a lot is good, but we need to do even more – we need to succeed in that, there is no need for more right-wing policies. We have learned – and Halleraker and others can learn this: no more tenders, more separation, more fragmentation, more new companies, etc., etc. What is needed now is political will. There is a need for political bets, money, governance and some organizational action, so that we get an even better railway for the future. Right-wing policy has been tried. It went terribly bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1919	We've been through a number of themes, which I would like to comment on a little, among other things. objectives for what is good, as the representative Halleraker called for us to debate. I think we should debate it and standards and different things in connection with the roll-out of the national transport plan, which we are in the process of doing. I expect that the representative Halleraker will also look forward to the job that the committee will do as a matter of course. At least I do. It will also be important to discuss project funding, look at the models that are available today, look at what can be done, as the Minister for Transport has also invited. Today we have three projects that are on our own. We have to test out some kind of OPS without private capital, where you see operations, maintenance and investment in one project. It's going to be really exciting. I have no allergy to private solutions in any way. On the contrary. But when we see that OPS solutions are becoming more expensive than what you can do by giving money over your own budget, it's not characterised as a wise policy – something that the Swedish Finance Minister was also concerned about, which I was into a little bit earlier. Then you are concerned that you should have roadside supervision, representative, reorganization, you want to modernise, and I don't know what. It is tempting to think that in the absence of being able to criticise the government and government parties for building a road and investing, something is being found on the organization front to focus on it. The centre party is concerned that we should not have more bureaucracy. We do not want the concern about the costs of conversion that characterises some of the countries that have done some of these things, with which we also have experience from past times. The center party is, as I said, impatient after moving on and getting more built up. We're impatient to build more railways. We're going to maintain, replace overhead lines and old sleepers, we're going to blow up mountains and cliffs. There's more of this people are busy, and no more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1936	I would like to mention in this article the route that many people call for ingenuity: the future south-west runway, the route between Oslo and Stavanger, which, if we stick to the forecasts, will provide a good train offer for about 2.5 million people by 2025. There is a train section that will offer travel times of less than three hours between Kristiansand and Oslo and less than five hours between Stavanger and Oslo, which would really make the train a good offer instead of planes, cars and buses. It is a train section that would also become an important driver in the development of this whole region, both in terms of residence and business. It is a route that over time will be the most environmentally friendly and efficient means of transport in this part of the country. There is a route that will lead to less road traffic and therefore also fewer road accidents. The South West Railway is a genius line. And not only that, this is probably the only train section that will be financially profitable over time. One prerequisite for getting this in place is that the Eidanger Tunnel, the Eidanger Parcel, is being expanded and put in place. I just have to say that in Telemark we were very disappointed that this line was not mentioned in the 2011 budget. For almost 20 years, this project has been working politically in Telemark. And for many years, the people of Grenland, who want to use the train, have shown patience with a train that is so slow on the route between Porsgrund and Larvik that you can cycle next to it – if the train is at all running. Patience is at the breaking point, and the government has to signal that the Eidanger tunnel is going to be in place. Today, only the Christian People's Party has specifically mentioned the Eidanger Tunnel in its alternative budget and set off a crown sum that would have led us to at least get started in 2011. But to get the Minister of Transport involved, I will personally take the initiative to rename this Eidanger tunnel to the Kleppa tunnel, and she will have the whole Parcel with her – if that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1945	The next speaker is Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. The President cannot see the representative of Hofstad Helleland in the Chamber. It is possible that she has gone the wrong way – at least we will go on to the councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1948	I feel a need to thank for the commitment in this debate. It's good to carry on for a government that's offensive when it comes to transportation. So it is that today there are called for many single sections. Many representatives will find that if they read the budget carefully, they are actually mentioned. Then there's the other, which is a little bit more ahead of time, and it's both path and road. We're in the process: while we're not quite a year inside this decade's national transport plan, we're in the process of rolling. Etats have done the first part of the work, and we are now going to meet the different municipalities. Most are invited in February, and some in March, then there will be additional work, and then the Stortinget will be presented with a new big message in 2013. A central theme that I think will be how we can even more specifically facilitate the transfer of more of the freight from road to road on the routes where the railway has its advantages. We have 440 million in 2011. kr to a number of smaller and medium-sized projects, aimed at increasing the capacity of the network. Another theme is public transport. There are several of you who have mentioned here: public transport in the cities. Last week I had a meeting with the job selection among the county chairpersons to see how we could further strengthen our efforts there. So I'd like to say that the government's proposal is close to 1 billion. kr for aviation in 2011. It's because we know that aviation is a commitment to reducing the distances for people and business in our long-range country. With the draft budget, we are making it possible to maintain a secure, efficient and equivalent air transport service throughout the country. So some of you have called for an equivalent offer of basic postal and telecommunications services, of high quality and at reasonable prices. It's the government's busy. The Right Party and the Progress Party remove the obligation for the Post to provide banking services. There is an obligation that is statutory. The Ministry has set up a distribution work to provide a basis for assessing the extent of the obligations in the future. It's a case that I'll come back with in the case. So our goal is a universally designed transport system that is efficient, safe and environmentally friendly. Many are impatient, not least the transport users. Then we'll see how the debate goes – if I have time to get something back to the individual questions, but don't let there be any doubt: I'm also impatient. The government's strategy is to step up its efforts in a sector that has been neglected for decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1965	I would like to take this opportunity to point to the government's offensive railway policy. Because while the Right is talking about modern and new solutions on the road and rail, the government is implementing this. The right is talking about rail bets and criticising the government for not doing enough – as the representative Ingjerd Schou points to the shortcomings of the Eastfold Railway and the Eastern Line. At the same time, the right-hand priority is to cut down on operation and maintenance to the railway, and otherwise use as much on investments on the railway as the government does next year. They're going to need 200 million, right? kr for the planning of OPS projects on road and rail, and establishing a fund, but it has not been given that this will lead to any concrete next year. The government has set in motion the development of double tracks in the intercity triangle on all routes and continues this next year. In the next NTP, we're going to have a temporal attachment of when the entire triangle can be finished with double tracks for high speeds. It is an objective that projects under way should be developed coherently and efficiently. It's happy, because there's one area for which this is important, it's the railway. It is not easy to build up rail piece by piece and split and at the same time to increase social benefits and shorter travel time, as has been done in the past. That is why this policy is important. At the same time, it is a right priority to prioritise the maintenance of the railway, as the government does. Also in winter there are problems with punctuality and lack of train sets. We must give priority to getting this right – patience is coming to an end. On the Eastfold Railway there are several commuters who have made bus passengers off, but I hope they will come back when the conditions are cleared up. But it's not just the maintenance of today's orbit we're occupied with in Eastfold. We are also concerned with the further development of the double track through Eastfold and Moss, as two of the representatives from Eastfold have pointed out today. That's why we were very happy when we got into the Mosse tunnel in NTP, starting by 2013. This is underlined in next year's budget. It states that as soon as the Railway Agency has competence and capacity, detailed planning and design work shall continue, no later than 2013. We want to start as soon as possible – that's clear – and we're going to work hard for it. However, as concretely as this wording in the budget, on start-up as soon as possible and no later than 2013, we have never had one before, nor under the Bondevik government, where the representative Schou was a minister. Finally, as one of the initiators of the previous phase of the high-speed rail investigation, I would like to stress that I am very pleased that this work is now well under way, and that we have a good basis for decision-making in connection with the next NTP in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1982	Tone Merete Sønsterud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1985	The representative Schou may not have heard after I kept my post on OPS, so I repeat, we are engaged in making the best use of the resources, we are concerned with effective and coherent expansions over longer distances. But this can be done within the budgetary system we have today. I referred to three major investment projects that are listed on their own budget lines, with the benefits it has for stable financing. One of them is the Oslo-Ski route. What we're opposed to is that transportation projects are to be purchased on payment by the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e1998	The debate is getting closer to the end, and I have to say that I really don't feel that these are the big issues being discussed, except a few. There is a fairly good consensus about much of what is being put into communication in Norway today, and we are pleased about that. Swearing Myrli says that he essentially supports us when we don't want more bureaucrats and directors, but we want executive terms that get done something, because that's what matters. And when Lundtigen also says that he wants to distinguish between investment and operations in that type of project in Norway, we are 100 pst. I agree with that. I hope the representative can get it through at least in his own party organ, and we'll do what we can in our own. I feel the need to defend the representative Schou a little, after she was attacked so strongly after having ‘brissed himself’, as they were told, and burned by her speaking time. With regard to the Bondevik II administration, of which she was part, it is true that it was decided to change the structure of the Railway Agency. It was a short time in the new government before it was reworked, and it was not unreasonable to believe that it led to any problems, because then there were already a few cards left, and something had already been done. With regard to the Railway Agency, as Schou said, I do not perceive that she criticized them in principle, but what was their course of action and their framework conditions. Then I must be allowed to refer to two good workers, Kjell Opseth and Matz Sandman, who in the last issue of the Railway magazine, which came out today, says: ‘In our view, both the Road Administration and the Railway Agency must be given room for action in order to perform their tasks in a more efficient and effective manner than today’.» Yes, we agree on that. So a little bit back to OPS: Lundtigen says it's expensive to borrow money. Yeah, but there are ways to deal with it if we have enough money, and we actually have. That's the principle of OPS, where we give responsibility to someone, not just to build it as cheaply as possible, but to build it so that it's profitable to operate it over a period of 15 to 20 to 25 years. TØI has concluded that the statistics on accidents are significantly better on the OPS roads because they are kept. There is increased standard on the roads throughout their lifetime. That's very good. Otherwise, I'd like to refer to the Ruits, which say we're black-painting. No, we don't, we're red-painting because one isn't willing to do something about a part of the underlying principles, for example. in the case of OPS, as I mentioned. Then I must be allowed to praise the representative of Kvalvik, who is an alternate today, and who expressed their support for the Meråkerbahnen and the Trønderbanen – great!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2020	I will comment on some of the issues involved in this debate. First to Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and the Progress Party: I note that the Progress Party, when it comes to the financing of Hålogalandsbrua, is on a collision course with both the NHO in North Norway and large parts of the Northern Norwegian population in relation to the consensus on using the money from the closure of Narvik Airport to finance Hålogalandsbrua – a very important transportation project for us in the north. I also got the criticism that we do not want to participate in investigations regarding path in Finnmark. But the point is that the government had already started the investigation that Fredriksen asked for, that is, a comprehensive northern area investigation of infrastructure needs. For us who were in Tromsø when partial investigation 1 was presented a week ago, it was very happy to see that this and several track projects were things that were recorded, and that are to be assessed further. Then we have had a long debate on funding. I have to say that I think it's a paradox that countries that are struggling with much greater aftereffects after the financial crisis and do not have a «book pay», as the Minister of Finance would say, are now moving away from OPS as a method. The United Kingdom is doing it, Sweden is doing it. The reason is that there are too many budgets tied up. I have to say that I was a little quirky when Ingerd Schou said instead that the whole point of using OPS methods was to tie up the budget. Tone Merete Sønsterud had earlier stated that the Ministry of Finance has calculated that we should follow the model of the Right, the entire budget for transport will be tied up to 2023-2024. I have not registered that she has received any answer from the Right to the question whether this is the case. Then we have not been in the air budgets of the Progress Party, but we are also dealing with the effusion. The progress party is in favour of abolishing tolls and believes that tolls are to be paid by the State and proposes that they be taken into account in the re-saltation, which is also part of this case, not in 2011. I believe that is a way to camouflage and keep the voters fooled. It again shows that the Progress Party does not have more money than we have. In the case of funds, there is also a solution that the Advance Party and the Right have. It was a very interesting leader in today's business last week about the Research Fund, where it says: ‘The Right Party and the Advance Party want a similar model for infrastructure investments. Neither should a fund be set up there. Norway has a dense fund – the State pension fund abroad, and there is no need for any more. There won't be any more money to build fancy structures in the budget. There's only going to be worse opportunities to see the whole thing." We have been accused in this debate by the Right and the Progressive Party of being old-fashioned. I find it interesting to see that the Red-Green Government does this both today's business and Trygve Hegnar in the Financial Newspaper has encouraged the Right Party and the Advance Party, namely to use the State budget to finance transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2043	I am surprised to hear about this debate in which representatives of the government are talking about the bets of the times. In More and Romesdal we have a road we call the export road – E139. That's 11 pst. of all Norwegian mainland exports, representing values exceeding 20 billion. kr. When these companies have produced and sold their products and are going to transport them to the market, what are they offered? Yes, one way from the last war. Gradually, this road is so narrow that there is no middle stripe. Parts of him hang in bolts in the mountain side, and so he hangs since the war. The alternative of the sitting government is that we pay new roads ourselves, through tolls. The same option is offered when it relates to a transfer bet in the county's largest city, Ålesund. The road route along the Laerstadweg is and has been a challenge, where he walks along the busway out of town and has a screaming need for repair. But once again, tolls are going to solve the problem. Hardly anything will be done without it being financed by a bomb. Then we see that the red-greens have tried to legitimize the county and leave much of the road network and the ferry routes to the county municipalities. Furthermore, many holiday routes are on offer, and when the new holiday routes are to be run by the new ferries, there is still a great deal to be done when it comes to holiday bets. In other words, they do not adapt the larger ferries and put the state in an impossible situation when it normally applies to maintenance. Jon Aasen, who is the Workers' Party's group leader in the county council, concludes this: when one trades with the state, a new one becomes the weight. This he has repeated several times. So a few words about the town ship tunnel, a project that has been distributed close to the tragicomic and yet is not ready. The risk of loss of life in the region is reduced to one-seventh, the risk of oil spills is halved, and the social benefit is estimated at tens of millions of dollars. These are some of the conclusions one has drawn if Norway builds the first shipbuilding tunnel through the peninsula of City in the North West. This shows the preliminary project developed by the Coastal Plant. In other words, it's about will and nothing else. The Party of Progress’s solution to the challenges of investment in transport also reflects a solution that contains a certain degree of precaution, unlike the current system. We have a fund of 300 billion. kr, and we are forced to separate investments from operations, as we do in business and the private economy – as we have always done there. If Norwegian business had used today's cash principle when it comes to initial investment and renewal, the welfare society we know today would have been a utopia. That's why we're content to rearrange the system, so that a distinction between permanent investments and ordinary operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2058	The representative Hoksrud compared me to Aunt Sofie. It could be a good comparison, because it's actually a role I've played. Aunt Sofie was so strict that the robbers were converted from their criminal career. Now I can only hope that I work the same way in the Progress Party, but unfortunately, I'm not making any hopes in that direction. The importance of wearing a safety belt is not disputed. That's what we're going to use, whether we're prime minister or Siv Jensen. I happened to notice that the Progress Party leader posted a picture of himself with a belt on Facebook a few days ago. The reason why I did not talk about the use of seat belt instead is that the Progress Party has not actually proposed that the drivers should have the same awkward use of seat belt as they obviously think we should have with the speed limits. I also did not talk about driving in a drug-induced condition. I should have, because there's a big risk in traffic. On Monday, the Stortinget passed a law on zero tolerance for drugs and drugs. We also decided that persons with a driving licence on the test will lose their driving licence even if they have a promille of less than 0.5. In the debate, the Progress Party informed us that they are actually opposed to this proposal. In view of the youth accidents, it is incomprehensible to me. What I think is the biggest challenge with the Progress Party is their handling of professional assessments. How would it be if we all dealt with individual employees in the State Road Service or single employees in Safe Traffic, as the Progress Party does, when the recommendations of the organizations themselves are unambiguously opposed? At best it can be called creative and selective use of professional judgements. For me, it's almost in line with whether I should ask my brother at Bømlo about what kind of advice he had to give in the context. The range ATK has been evaluated and the experience is unique. There's even a report from the State Road Service on the route ATK. It results in a significant decrease in the number of fatalities and injuries, resulting in a reduction in speed. That's what the report from the State Road Administration says. We choose to use the competence. We choose to rely on the professionalism of the floors and in the State Road Service and will therefore have more distance ATK. To the Advancement Party: Merry Christmas! Say hello to Aunt Sofie.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2075	After listening to this debate, it would be thought that some in the Workers' Party and the Centre were in opposition, because it is largely only the Council of State and Myrli who have been satisfied with the government's commitment to the road sector. When I listened to the Central Party's fiscal spokesman, who was up here, I wondered what kind of party he was really representing, because there was more criticism of government's fiscal policy than there was in the government's policy. But now it's like he's probably also known to be in opposition to the government. Steinar Gullvåg told us about the amazing road standard in Westfold. If Steinar Gullvåg wants to have a glare on the road construction of the Workers' Party, maybe Westfold is a suitable state, the size of Mo in Rana. But even that size you can't deliver a proper road standard on. I don't think that's the nicest thing you come with. I had hoped that the level of ambition of the Workers' Party was a little higher than solving the road problems in a county of size with a municipality in Norway. But even you can't do it. In the election campaign, a former Central Party government council told me that it would smell asphalt all over Norway. Now I've been driving a lot around the North and smelling and smelling, but it's not a lot of asphalt to smell there. [[muttering in the hall]] I don't know if they forgot how to do those things there. Janne Sjelmo Nordås of the Centerpartie was so "intolerant," she said. I'll recommend her to learn one thing, and that's patience. Because with this government you have to have a lot of patience. I don't have the patience that Janne Sjelmo Nordås has. When you look at the death tolls in her own county, and in her own neighboring municipality, which is still setting new records, I had no conscience to have that patience. It was said up here from the red-green that you have a political will – strong political will, I think it was said – to build roads in this country. The problem is that it is not political will to build roads, it is money from the budget. And that's what's missing. It was said here that the Progress Party was against tolls, and therefore no roads were built here. If you want to go on, you can drive to Sweden and see. There you wouldn't think it was a single road, but you've built a road on the road without tolls. So that's possible, but you have to have the will, and the willingness to use the budgets to do so. It doesn't have the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2088	The representative Svendsen has revealed considerable geography from this pulpit earlier today. It's true that Vestfold is a relatively small state, but there are some people living there, actually some more in Westfold than it lives in Mo in Rana. Mo in Rana we could actually have placed on a small part of the south, population, so that the cultural significance of Westfold I think we're going to measure in traffic and the traffic problems that affect this county. The other day I came across a newspaper clip from the election campaign in 2005, when several of us traveled around this small district of Westfold and promised that we would spend between 5 and 6 billion. kr at Vestfoldbanen in the period until 2015. I remember that the Right and their head of state, Svein Flätten, who often ran over our good rail lifts, which he told without crushing, were considerable overburdens. We're going to blow that line with Barkåker-Tønsberg and the new big project that started this summer, i.e. the continuous extension of the route Holmestrand-Nykirke, with a station inside the mountain in Holmestrand. In reality, we are facing a railway revolution in my state, which in a few years will change the conditions for housing and employment on the west side of the Oslo Bank. At the moment it is possible to drive express trains between Tønsberg and Oslo with a travel time of less than an hour, with new trains coming and going when they are going to, the train becomes a natural transport choice for most. Because there is no one with the wit and the sense that exposes themselves to the pressure of stamping on the roads to and from Oslo during the rushes, as far as they can avoid it. When several take the train, there is also better space on the roads, because a double-track railway has the same transport capacity as two four-field roads lying next to each other, especially in the rush time. In the 2005 project list, there is one project: the Farriseidet–Porshund section, which did not fit in the 2011 budget, but which we hope will be included in the 2012 budget. I am pleased that the government parties in the committee voting session are meeting the follow-up to this project in the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2099	In terms of geography and population growth, my impression from the nutrition committee is that most of it is the largest in Narvik, so now it's handed over from this pulpit. I want to go into some of the points that have been up here. First, the debate that has been around this with roadside surveillance. It's actually like we've had pretty bad accidents now, and when we've found a reason for this on closer inspection, it's the state of the roads that's the cause of the accidents – sometimes serious accidents. I'm from the aviation industry, where we use the Air Traffic Control. It's actually like being able to describe what kind of standard it should be before you can get wheels to roll, can often be important. No one asks a question about an oversight saying that this runway is actually in such a bad condition that there should be no planes there. It could have been a thought to do something like that with the road as well. After all, it's claimed from the traffic bureaucrats that you don't need this, because you know what's bad ways, you just have to have more money. But it's actually like somewhere the roads shouldn't have been in use, and the evidence of it lies there. So until the debate on the form of organisation and funding of large-scale transport projects: this government, too – we can agree on this – has moved on how to organise and view the projects. One has moved to the extent that in the case of project E6 west of Alta, it was long so that no one knew if one was really going to start it now or not, or who might have to finance it, or what one had promised the local politicians. It is important to be clear in the debates and discussions. It's not always what you're talking about, it's what you're talking about. Finally, I would like to take the round of air fares and air services in Finnmark. There I record in the mass media that the Ministry of Transport is out saying that there is nothing to do with it. It is wrong after my ringing mind. The principle is simple: in the tender documents you send out, you place a maximum price on the different travel sections. Then it is that when the maximum price is placed on the tender papers, the ticket price for it is set from that place to that place. In any case, you get so rigged that you say that this is the price you think you have to pay for the trip.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2112	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2115	I'm not going to brag by Swearer Myrli in this round, for when I saw what kind of reaction it came to when I boasted of his first post, I won't do it! But there are a few things I need to comment on. Firstly, it must not hang in the air in any way that the Right is not very aware of and will cultivate and further develop the good competence that sits in our offices – both in the Railway Agency and the State Road Service. But that doesn't mean we can't organize ourselves differently. We've done that with both Mesta and Avinor. We have put off the Gjøvik track, and we got a change on the Fly train. I have not registered any suggestions in this room to reverse those arrangements. Then we get a good OPS debate later today in a slightly wider context, so I don't think we're going to spend any more time on it from here. I just want to say that it is nice to record that the government's representatives are now boasting of bourgeois politicians in Sweden and England and are not very pleased with their own, who crashed earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2124	Today's budget deals with many important issues that could have been addressed, and a lot of things have been said about both the past and the future. The representative Myrli had a visit to the Bondevik II administration and the Railway Agency. Yes, it is true that the Bondevik II administration actually started a reorganisation of the Railway Agency, which was reversed and stopped by the red-green government. Then you can ask yourself if the experience after that time maybe has shown something that it was right to look at the organisation of the Railway Agency, that it was right to look at how you get the most effect out of the resources that are actually invested there. It is also argued against more efficient forms of investment by several government representatives. Sometimes it sounds as if you have been informed by the Ministry of Finance what you should mean, and then you make the arguments afterwards. I am surprised that both representatives Bjørnflaten and Sønsterud refer to experiences, for example. from the United Kingdom, which departs from this tool on the grounds that they are in the process of being heavily indebted and have major challenges with it. If, in fact, this red-green government has such great ambitions for road development that through OPS you have to be able to charge Norway net government debt, then I'm actually going to give them a big flower and a big reward for their ambitions in this area. – This is not a relevant comparison. I will also, like the representative Bratli, focus on road safety. We have many different tools for speed controls and controls in a modern society, but we never fail to strengthen the personal responsibility of each driver. Nevertheless, it is important that we invest money in the most accident-affected routes. One of them is E6 and Rv. 3 in the south of Trondheim. I refer here to comments such as: The Christian People's Party agrees that it is important to speed up the investments to be made on this route in the years to come. The Meråkerbahn is the ‘missing link’ on the Nordic railway network. I wish there was a majority in the Chamber who were in the comments that the Christian People's Party here has joined with the Right. Finally, I would like to raise Ørland airport, where the Christian People's Party is unfortunately alone on a note that we point out that the regional importance of the Ørland-Gardermoen route deserves to have room on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2141	Government rates in the north: 1.2 billion. in 2011 for different Northern Region actions next year in line with the New North Building Stones Action Plan. We're going to bet on transport in the north, and we're going to bet a lot more in the years to come. I'm drawing out some bets: strengthening the Coast Guard and moving the Coast Guard Headquarters from Oslo to Sortland a number of major road projects are to be launched in order to re-open the fast route – priority being given to high-speed Hålogalandsbrua north of Narvik to build the will to increase public transport and rail investment in Bodø and Salten region; It is clear from the Committee's comments. I want to highlight the increasing importance of the railways and the possibilities for cross-border transport. That is why we must follow up on a transport corridor between the United States and Russia/East China via Narvik. This is of great interest in North Norway and not least in our neighbours. We have to do what we can to speed up green transport paths for goods and people. That also means upgrading the railway. We need to modernise and increase the capacity of Narvik rail via Kiruna and further east. That means a vision of double tracks and straighter lines. We must also speed up the plans for the railways in Troms on the agenda. All of this is addressed by the government, and we need to follow up this important work with a transport plan for the north into the treatment of the new national transport plan in 2013. New major airport at Helgeland will be a fantastic boost in nutrient development and settlement in this region, one of the few regions that do not have a larger airport. Enterprises in a large area from Lovund to Hattfjelldal have settled behind the Polar Circle airport. It is therefore important to have good speed on the concession process and on decisions and to find ways to realise an aerodrome that can be operated by larger aeroplanes. It is about industrial development, regional development, travel time and prices. Back to Hålogalandsbrua, from Narvik and northwards, which is one of the highest priority transport investments on E6 in North Norway. It is important for the transport of goods in North Norway, and not least for the continued transport of freight by rail. 80 pst. of all transport to North Norway north of Narvik is by rail from Oslo to Narvik via Sweden. Hålogalandsbrua is also important for ensuring that transport. I am very pleased that the Council of State has announced that the actual wedding project will come to Stortinget as its own case in 2011. I would like to ask the Council of State to bring the matter forward already in the spring session, so that construction can be started in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2174	"We manage ourselves in good health," said Myrli. Actually, I was just going to go up and thank you for a fantastic opinion, because that's something we in the Right have been busy for a while, and that we can very well document through the questionnaire around the state budget. Although Myrli said that the previous government sent out the foot people, which I do not think is right, we can at least confirm that the bureaucrats have come in afterwards. There has been an explosion in the number of state bureaucrats, and there has also been an explosion in municipal administrative expenditure. So even though Myrli showed his other side in his second post, I would say that I very much agree with much of what he said in the first post. Then I have also noted during the debate that you are talking about OPS being more expensive. As far as I know, the evaluation that was carried out by TØI could not conclude on some things when it was costing, neither that it became more expensive, nor that it became cheaper. I guess you're aiming for funding, and unlike many of the red-green people who refer to a lot of Europe rejecting OPS, that's not my experience at all. There is a great deal of innovation in funding. Downstairs in Europe, we are now talking about the possibility that the state can make the borrowing and that it is guaranteed by the private sector. Then you get the best of both, because then you also get the positive of OPS, which has been pointed out: it's risk relief, it's transport safety over time, that the representative Myraune was in, it's fast implementation, and that's innovation in the projects. So the fact that Norway at the Red-Green Government is outside all sorts of innovation in this regard is quite critical. As for the Bjørnface, and the fact that we have room for action: it is obvious that the debt situation in Europe causes investment to stop, and that is quite dramatic. But it has nothing to do with OPS. The fact that we have freedom of action means that we should focus on having projects implemented effectively. Then OPS is one of the instruments. Finally, I miss answers from the Council of State to the challenge I gave, because I'm a little concerned that Norway should also belong to a world around it. I believe that Norwegian business needs to get goods and services out. Without a very clear Norwegian strategy on how to build the infrastructure between Uddevalla and the Swedish border and Karlstad and the Swedish border, I don't think the Swedish are going to have that focus. I have not received an answer to that challenge. Nor can I see that there are signs of strategy in government documents. My red-green colleagues on the Hedmark bench have also failed to support the comment made by the Right in the budget. We'd like to know if there's a focus on that particular challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2185	I would just like to highlight page 136 of the budget proposal and the following pages, where the main railway projects are mentioned, the status of planning, design and land use. There is evidence that, in the case of the Eidanger tunnel, there may be considerable opportunities for start-up in 2012. There is also the status of Eidsvoll-Hamar and other projects mentioned today. Then I can cheer Hoksrud up that I've been to Telemark several times, even after I was Minister of Transport, even in Bamble. To Halleraker I can say that Hordfast is inside as one of the six KVUs, and also in Elevenset's work on a ferry-free coastal line. Only two things in the end. The only thing is for Gunnar Gundersen, and it's for the Nordic triangle. Let me say, first of all, we now have our own north-area development as the basis for the next national transport plan. Secondly, there is close cross-border cooperation. I myself attended a ministerial meeting in June in Haparanda and a new meeting now in Brussels. I mean, like him, it's important that we work together here across borders. And then finally, I want to say: there are some representatives here who have given the impression that they don't see, there are some who say they don't hear, it was even mentioned that some people had lost the sense of smell. I have to say that I am looking forward to realising the 2011 budget. I think that out in the country, people want to make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2199	The President records that some of us have commented that someone has lost the political sense. Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2204	I can't stand up and I expect the Minister of Transport to deal with this. The government itself states that the northern regions are its main strategic investment. When you in the north feel that the price of air travel to get from a to b internally in a state is 9 000 kroner, it has nothing to do with bet. I would rather say that it is an anti-district policy. The government can do something about landing charges, can do something about en route charges, can do something about climate quota charges, can do something about tender papers and maximum prices — and can also do something about state purchases. It's not like there are no tools in the toolbox. That is the political will it depends on. I am asking the Minister to look at the matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2213	The majority is now suspending its negotiations, and the President will recall that the meeting will be resumed at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker is Oskar J. Grimstad. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.01. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2225	The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Ragnhild Aarflot Kalland, has taken their seats. The decision continues to deal with the case No. 1-6 on Agenda No Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2233	I asked for the word again on the basis of the discussions that have taken place with the fund allocation. I myself have had the pleasure, as a member of the Norwegian Bank's representative over a few years, to be there and see how the State pension fund abroad has grown up unbelievably large. I was also on a trip to New York, where we visited NB's office and got to see the function the stockbrokers have. It was the same day that Lehman Brothers passed over the end. We also experienced how fast a fund can be – say – drastically reduced in the world. It makes me think that I have thought many times: what if we placed a few hundred million of these values representing parts of the State pension fund abroad, in infrastructure here in the country – what would it have done to the competitiveness of our business, what would it have done to employment, etc.? Instead, we had to put in significant funds under the financial crisis. We see that we are now using money from the State pension fund abroad to invest in infrastructure, in corporate shafts and also in property. In other words, we are involved in making companies abroad stronger. We are helping to make the infrastructure of these companies abroad stronger. In other words, we're able to put the others in a better position to compete with our own businesses and our own inhabitants than what we're doing abroad. We're so afraid of using dollars domestically that it's going to be kind of making its own trip wire. This is far from the future, and, as I say, it only strengthens our competitors and not those who will be with and sustain the welfare society that we today enjoy being part of – the companies that build the welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2238	Representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås. She has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2241	The representative Svendsen obviously has a bad sense of smell, as the Minister of Transport also pointed out, because this summer I drove from Mo in Rana to Bodø and experienced at least no less than four projects where road work was carried out, with blasting, maintenance and asphalting. And it's just a fifth of the Nordic region, so here it's activity. In Grane, there's a lot of accidents, and that's why we're betting in Grane. You now open 4.9 km at Mayavatn. You start with a new project at Brenna this spring, and we're going to make a decision in Stortinget in relation to the Helgelands package, which includes 27 miles. The Holiday Package will be important in order to prevent future accidents. With that, I strongly recommend the budget that we have now presented and that will be adopted. It is forward-looking, both for Northern and for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2250	The President does not very much appreciate the fact that the representatives have characteristics on each other – ‘bad smell’ is not a very good characteristic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2253	I would like to point out that the post from the representative invited it very clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2258	What happened earlier, this representative can't say anything about it, but now I'm the one presiding. The representative Arne Sortevik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2264	In 1 minute I'll do two things. One is to say two words about the ferry-free coast road E39 between Stord and Bergen. This time, too, we mean by our comment from the Progress Party to stress that when examining options for ferry-free connections, we include today's trajectory in that investigation. We actually have written confirmation from the previous Minister of Transport that she will do just that, and we hope, of course, that she is standing by her promise. So, finally, funding. What the representative Hareide refers to as ‘absent all reason and that is not realistic at all’ – a quote from today’s debate – is therefore to use state loans for state agencies. It gives us faster and more extensive investment, it binds the budgets to a slightly greater extent than what we know today – that's quite right – but we're getting more projects completed faster, we're getting faster social gains, and we're saving more lives. Do not delete the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2271	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2274	I just want to briefly summarize how I have seen this debate. I think it has been a good debate. I might say that this debate has not been so bad, and this time it is not just the government council, Mr Kleppa, but indeed all the participants in the debate. I think it has been an exciting debate, which has shown the political divides. The one who was probably the most embraced by both opponents and followers was the representative Sverre Myrli. What's a little bad is that he's going against roadside supervision, and that's probably all the parties today for, but we're a little confused about how we're going to organize it. I want to ask the Council of State to notice that all the parties, apart from the Progress Party, say in relation to the high-speed distribution and what is leading in this way. There are clear indications from a Joint Committee, in addition to the Progress Party, on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2281	In connection with the posts of the representative for Vosskensen, I need to make some comments. I share Mr Vosskensen's commitment to good communication and infrastructure in East Agder, among others. in the case of middle parts of E18 at Grimstad, coastal protection, Tvedestrand-Arendal, rv. 9, etc. But when the representative Vosskensen claims that one is adding to an increased toll burden, and that there is a lack of state resources, I would just like to point out that the county council in East-Agder has supported such a solution by a large majority. It actually means that very many of the users of E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand will get a less strain than is the case today, because what it's about is dividing the bomb into two. In popular terms, this bomb is called the 'justice bomb', so I hope it becomes a reality, because it should have been a reality a long time ago. What's the reality here is that those who use the bomb the most do not pay anything today – believe what they want. To exemplify this, I would like to point out four patterns in the drive between Grimstad and the district border, Aust-Agder/Vest-Agder. Those who drive from Lillesand to the border of West Agder today pay zero. So these are the ones that benefit most from the new E18. They will have to pay NOK 15 with the new solution. Those who travel from Grimstad, Arendal and further east and to the border of West Agder, pay today $30, and they will pay $30 with the new proposed solution. But those who travel from Arendal, Grimstad or further east and to Lillesand, who today pay 30 kroner, will have to pay 15 kroner with the new solution. So will those who travel from Lillesand and eastward towards Grimstad and Arendal. So they're going to pay $30 today and they're going to have to pay $15 with the new proposed solution, which most people in East Agder think is fair and fair. Finally, I would like to make a small comment to the representative Fredriksen, who says that the flight prices in North Norway are ‘worst’. I agree that they are not very good. But I don’t think it’s very pleasant to play out the Albania and Botswana cards in terms of experienced road standards – using it as evidence of road standards in Norway. It's "host".
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2292	It was just this flight ticket question that was a little clingy after two posts and challenges. There I now choose to answer cards, but by taking a little bit of history first. Internal aviation was deregulated in Norway as a result of the EEA Agreement between 1994 and 1997. Before the deregulation, the airlines in Norway had concessions on routes, and the authorities approved both frequencies, schedules and aircraft types, prices and discount structure. After the deregulation, it is on routes on the commercial network – i.e. routes without public support – the airlines themselves as fixed prices, discounts, conditions and routing, without the approval of the authorities. Under EEA legislation, the State only has the power to establish rules on the price of routes subject to public service obligations and where the State purchases air services on an on-demand basis. Then the government buys supplies. We want a good flight offer throughout the country. North Norway has special distance challenges, and regional air route provision is therefore particularly important in this part of the country. We're buying flight services for about 200 million. kr in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. For example, the maximum price of those routes is: NOK 1 149 on the Hammerfest–Churches route, so there's something misleading out here and going. If we're going to say it simple, we can say that this is exactly the commercial that goes into it. In another context, there are some people in this room who want us not to subsidize special routes and make government purchases, either here or there. When it comes to the level of charges, I don't think I'm looking closer to it, because it's going to increase in the 2011 budget by 1.3 pst. That means it's actually a decline. So to the Arendal–Tvedestrand stretch, there's one of several examples of local initiatives being taken to support planning. I hope they find a local clarification quickly on that road, before the cases come to the ministry, so that we can get a clarification. It's not very local, but it's a formal decision. In the end, I just want to say when it comes to lynching, that I have noticed the committee's attitude on that point as well, and that I'm going to be very aware of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2307	The representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås commented on my opinion on my sense of smell. Then I can only state that my sense of smell is excellent. It is actually so good that if I smell asphalt, I take the camera and drive away and take a picture of it, because it happens so rarely that it is conservationable. And then the representative Janne Sjelmo Nordås says that the Center Party has a «future-oriented» policy on road construction. She says she's been driving through Northernland, and there she's met so many works. That's right – I've also driven that distance. So you drive 90 km above the Salt Mountain on a nice road built in the 1980s, and then you drive into a road where the speed is down to 80 km, and where there is no middle stripe, you hit some construction machines to fix the road a short distance – the road is just as bad on both sides of the repair – then you drive down, and then you meet the same thing. For me, a "future-oriented" road construction is that you start where the road is bad, and then you build it in the future so that the whole way is good. You don't have to do it so that you run in 90 km a piece, 70 km a piece, 60 km a piece and 80 km a piece. It is not «future» road construction. And then this with the Helgelands package was mentioned as something positive for the government. But it is the government that has forced part of the population to pay tolls to build a road! If they don't want to pay tolls, they won't get away either. I think it's a shame that you have a government that's set over 3,000 billion. kr in shares abroad, and then requires the drivers in Norway to pay a higher tax than they do. At the same time, I know that the new age shows that we have paid much more taxes and taxes to the Treasury this year than what was planned in the State budget. For me, it is incomprehensible that drivers should be taxed even more instead of spending money on expanding the road network in Norway in a forward-looking way, so that those who produce goods in North Norway and in the West can get out of the market in a reasonable way, sell their products and pay taxes and taxes to the State. It is a forward-looking policy. It's a policy that makes us have a business life in District Norway in the future, when we retire – a business that can pay taxes and contributions to the pension that we can also participate in. But having a pieceful and divided structure – one kilometer here and one kilometer there – is not forward-looking, it's backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2320	The President understands that he has been in the middle of a debate in a healthy language, but will nevertheless note that ‘disgusting’ policy is not something the President will let go without humbling it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2323	Now I was thinking that we should move on to the next case, because there is a good opportunity to discuss financing of transportation later today as well. But just to make it clear: it's an important and independent point for this government to make sure more coherent expansion than what's happened before us. That's because I first took the Storting on a trip on E6 and now a trip on E39. It is definitely not like what happened to us in the time of the representative Kenneth Svendsen, that there was only a new rounding in the whole of Nordland in quite a long time. So we're definitely focusing on more coherent expansion, and we can't have it on us that there's no future-oriented expansion we're running with. Fortunately, people in the country are very happy with all the forward-looking expansion we are now pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2330	It was Kenneth Svendsen's contribution that also made me take the floor. I felt that he was trying to present it as if nothing were happening in North Norway, and that is, of course, completely wrong. Since the red-green government took over in 2005, we have tripled the investment in transport in North Norway. Northern Norway was before below the average level for trade in Norway. We are now at that level – we still have major challenges, but we have tripled the stakes in North Norway. We've discussed it a little earlier today, but I think it's very special that the Progress Party as the only party is going against a solution where you're going to spend money after the closure of Narvik Airport to finance the bridge over the Rombaksfjord, which will be the next major transport project in North Norway – an incredibly important transportation project. That is what the Progress Party is against. Here is the Progress Party on collision courses with the population, with the NHO in North Norway and with all those who have worked to get a solution to get that bridge in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2339	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 6. [[Votation, see pages 1481, 1492, 1493 and 1495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2355	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2364	Now we have had a wide-ranging debate on the budget on both organisation and funding, so I should just like to make a few brief comments on the two representative proposals. I feel that there is a cross-political consensus on several of the issues discussed in the two proposals for representatives. We all want to have comprehensive and efficient transport planning, we all want the most rational implementation of transport investment, and we are all positive for project financing. I want to start by stressing this, because it is often – as demonstrated in the previous opposition debate – produced as if the red-green parties have ideological resistance to changes and innovations in the transport sector. That's obviously wrong. It is precisely we who are the strongest defenders of the public sector, who have the most to pick up at all times to ensure that the public sector operates as efficiently as possible. That's why the red-green majority has, among other things. open for project financing in the current NTP. The Christian People's Party wants the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate the possibility of setting up a common transport network, according to the model of Sweden and Finland. The idea is interesting and an important reason why the red-green transport fraction visited the Swedish Transport Agency earlier this autumn. Traffic is a relatively new construction, and was established on 1 April 2010. Therefore, it is too short to draw much experience from this reorganisation. At the same time as the Swedish Transport Agency was established, several transport stations were closed. The Swedish Transport Agency should be responsible for long-term planning, operation and investment in the transport system. The majority support the Christian People's Party that there is room for planning that sees the means of transport more closely and takes advantage of the advantages of individual means of transport. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that Norway is well advanced in overall planning. Sweden just adopted its first transport plan covering all transport sectors, while we are in the planning of the fourth national transport plan. The Ministry of Transport indicates in its response to the Committee that they closely monitor developments both in Sweden and Finland. At the same time, the Ministry points out that it is not possible to compare Norway and Sweden for example. is a major construction activity, while this has been separated in Sweden. Politicians have delegated far greater decision-making powers to the Swedish Transport Agency than is the case in Norway. We have to ask ourselves whether we want a development with less political governance of traffic modes, and with the possibility of increased red tape, such as, among other things. The right is inside his remark. Right wishes to implement several OPS projects. As I said – and as has been said many times before today – the red-green majority is making a positive contribution to project funding. At the same time, I again wonder that the proposers focus only on OPS as a solution to the financing of the infrastructure projects. Proposalers argue that tighter economic frameworks will make stronger demands for policy priorities and for new solutions to realise new projects. But the recipe of the bourgeois parties is therefore to do the opposite of what their common senses do in other European countries, in order to secure economic space after the economic crisis. Here we have already discussed the situation both in the United Kingdom and in Sweden earlier today. In the United Kingdom, the Minister of Finance has said to the media that the OPS projects have contributed to the high debt it needs to deal with in the wake of the financial crisis. The red-green response is to invest heavily in the transport sector, to give priority to operation and maintenance – and therefore we are in the process of implementing a historic transport promise. Both of these two representatives show that there are no quick fix solutions to the challenges we face in the transport sector, as the right parties tend to present it as. Maybe a common transport rate will be a future solution, but before we get there, there are many important clarifications that need to be made. The most important thing now is that establishments, such as the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency, need to be calmed down first and foremost to carry out the ambitious transport effort it has set up. Experience from other countries shows that in the short term, OPS solves some challenges, but quickly creates many others. With that, I am promoting the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2390	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2393	I was really a little unsure when I heard the previous speaker, because she is probably talking about both the matter we are now dealing with, and the matter we are going to deal with afterwards. So whether you're going to take everything together, or how you're going to do it, I'm starting to get a little bit unsure. But it doesn't really matter much, so I'm dealing with what the matter is really about, a common transport rate. I am very pleased that the proposers are taking up old, good progress party proposals again. The first time we promoted this in Stortinget was in fact in 1992-1993, so we are very happy that we are now getting a case on this. I think it's good that the council says she's positive, but unfortunately she's doing this a little bit later. This is about an opportunity to say something about wanting to modernise this sector, and actually also about looking at new opportunities to use resources in a more efficient and much better way than you are doing today. I think it's a little bad that the Council's response to the committee is very little clear in relation to what goes on in maritime transport, which I think may be part of the transport sector we often forget – which is often this down, and which rarely reaches in the big discussion. You may not see the great interest in ordinary people, but it's incredibly important for business. It is very important that ports also become more and more important when discussing the area of responsibility of transport modes, and that an overall action be taken – although, of course, the Council of State and others here would argue that this is achieved, as well as having good coordination with regard to the national transport plan. But I have to be honest and say that when I was allowed for the first time to attend and deal with the National Transport Plan in this room in the previous period, it was such that the ports fell a little between some chairs. That's all the other thing we discussed -- we discussed what people were busy about, whether their path entered the NTP, whether the route or an airport entered the NTP. But the ports are doing this down a little bit, maybe because they don't have the same interest in the broad team of the people. But it's definitely important, as I said, to business. I think this is exciting. This is a good proposal, and of course we fully support the idea of now wanting to have this assessed, explored the possibilities and looked at the consequences. Sweden has now done so – you don't have very long experience, of course, because it's been a short time since you did it. At least it shows that there is a government in Sweden that is a slightly different symbol from the government you have here in Norway. But they have at least gone a little ahead, and they have to go ahead. We are very pleased that the Swedes have also followed where the Progress Party was early in the 1990s, and believe that this is a good solution. Of course, the majority in the Chamber will vote in favour of the majority of the committee – but it has been allowed to be a majority for a few days – and refuse to do so. But I think it's sad, because I think it would have been very good to get this assessment and have the possibility that maritime transport too will have its rightful place within the transport sector and be taken in the same seriousness as the other modes of transport. Unfortunately, some of the heart of the dispute and the reason why you don't want to collect all the infrastructure in one department is probably a little bit afraid of this: what about a separate Ministry of Fisheries when most of the business that's there is actually being taken into another department? Clearly, for a nation like Norway, where salmon farming and fish and that kind of thing are important, it might be a little strange not to have such a department. I think it's something for reasons of motion. But everyone who operates and works in transport and logistics is definitely concerned that maritime transport must also enter the same road network as the other modes of transport. That is why we hope that the majority in this House will think and support the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2410	I assume that any government and any Minister of Transport will be able to have an overall view of the planning of transport, and I think it is regrettable that the government and the Council of State will not be able to think completely and modernise within the levels that build up columns individually. It must be quite obvious that there are also overhead costs that could lead to some efficiency, although the Right in relation to a common transport state is probably also very clear that we do not want this to be bureaucratic organisations that have the characteristics that we do not want. The transport sector has also been heavily influenced by sector thinking. It concerns both sea, air, rail and road and, in particular, more electronic communications, which must be seen together when planning the transport and transport sectors. And especially important is this when we're going to try to get more goods from the road to the track and the sea. It is then clear that the dimensioning of one transport sector has implications for the other, and vice versa in terms of dimensioning and coordination. The right is concerned with improving coordination, getting away from what has been and is sector thinking, and getting more involved in long-term, holistic planning, taking all modes of transport into account and dimensioning so that they are related, and that we get a development that is in line with both environmental and promotion considerations – in order to ensure the nutritional development and promotion of people at work. So there's something about the overall social strength – what is this region, this part of the country, having special challenges in facilitating transportation? What kind of nourishment are we going to have? What major other societal tasks is it right to continue to develop in this region? I think that the transport committee's visit to places in Europe, in the United States and in Canada – and British Columbia – clearly shows that we have something to learn in terms of overall societal strength, including in the transport sector, to a greater extent than we have today. Road and track are often given short-term planning, and it is also positive to have overall planning where we see synergies between the different modes of transport. We have also seen on our journeys in the Transport Committee that regional transport plans are developing that can build up to the national transport plan. Eastfold now takes this into account when it comes to thinking of all modes of transport — not looking blindly at county borders, but not at national borders either. For road, track, air and sea there are also consequences for neighbours, be it for counties or for Sweden, Finland, Russia – the areas affected. We also see that Nordland, Troms, Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag are now planning more on the basis of regional transport plans than has been done in the past, taking into account a greater degree of overall planning. In that case, I think the Council of State should note that it is possible to think anew even in terms of the overall national management of this sector. I think it is very affordable and would like to commend the proposers for taking up an important issue that carries a bid for modernisation, for innovation, which I think is something that many people in the districts feel is that not enough is being cared for today. Not long ago there was a big look in the NRK Eastfold that now the new E6 was too small. Then it was very good to say that there won't be any more files on that E6 because we have to take the goods over to the track and sea. It emphasizes with all clarity that we, even nationally, had benefited from a grip where we had a greater degree of overall strength. I feel that both the government and the positioning parties agree with the opposition in describing everyday life and reality, but do not want to be part of the grips that can lead to us actually doing something about getting a coherent, coordinated planning. Then I warn against red tape – we have announced that in our comment – but I think it is positive that we have got this case up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2433	Sweden and Finland are now taking action to ensure greater soundness in their transport policy. That was the starting point for the thinking and the foundation of the Christian People's Party's presentation here, just that these neighbouring countries now want to see the investment on the road, sea, rail and aviation more in a context. We have put behind us an exciting budget debate, but it is clear that some of the challenges we face in this sector are the climate challenges – we know that 35 pst. climate change emissions come from this sector. We know the population challenge we have, not least in some of the central areas. We know the air problem in our biggest cities. The question then is: do we have a good enough holistic strategy for this – not only in a ten-year perspective, as a national transport plan, but also in a longer perspective, when we look at it? I did not think we received a very clear and good response to that during the debate today, and therefore I think there is a need to see this more in a context. I want to use some examples. We've had the pleasure of joining the opening of the Bjørvika tunnel, but we also think that a cottage in 2009 had to make some cuts to prepare for the opening of the Bjørvika tunnel. At the same time, we know that the NSB reduced its supply – an example of how the path and the road do not see each other in a good way. Another example I would say is Fornebu – a large and beautiful area that we have known about the challenges and potential for now for 12–13 years, after the Stortinget took its decision in 1997–1998. But have we made provision for a good infrastructure? How do we use orbit as a tool into our big cities? The city railway in Bergen is an honorable and good exception, but it is clear that this is enormously lifted for cities, without a state involvement. I note that the Progress Party and the Right support the proposal. I'm very happy about that. I also record that the government parties are not in favour of the proposal, but they express understanding. When it comes to the response from the department, I just thought that the need to see things more in context is absolutely present. I have not concluded on this matter, if this is correct. But I think it's very wise for us to use some of the experience from Sweden, and possibly also from Finland, when they go into this. Then I believe that a piece of work is the first step on the way to learning from this. This is not about how we organize the Road Service or the Railway Works as units. I think it's about how we strategically view infrastructure and transport policy, and that's the debate I hope we can get, and then see if we're going for a deal. I think the processing of this document has been constructive also for those who do not support the decision itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2450	I think a merge could have a positive effect on several areas. However, significant risks and costs are also associated with major changes in organisation and tasks. It applies both to the superior governing authority, to the merged enterprise and to its members. It also applies not least to the tasks to be resolved in the near future, year by year, which I would like to have the main focus ahead. Let me stress that we already have a good and extensive cooperation between the two, not least the national transport plan and cooperation that take place in different distributions for the sector. An option may be to strengthen this cooperation. Another option is to always focus on how to work together better. The committee leader gave a few examples. Let me also mention one, from a whole new time. It applies to railway and road along Mjösa, where the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have found out that with joint planning they save 400 million. kr. I am open to considering whether organisational changes can contribute to more efficient resource use in the transport sector, while I, as I have also written in my letter, am busy that organisational changes have their price. For the first time, I intend to carry out a survey of equality and differences between transport modes in the Nordic countries. The results of this mapping will be used to provide a basis for further work to be done. Consideration should also be given to whether it may be necessary to make other organisational arrangements prior to any merger. Statens vägvesen and the Railway Agency cannot easily be equated with Vägverket and Banverket in Sweden. In Sweden, the construction company in Banverket was already separated into an owned company, while in the Railway Agency we have taken a cautious step in that direction when establishing the Baneservice AS. Norway, on the other hand, has made a corresponding change in the road sector in connection with the establishment of Mesta AS – with slightly different experiences there. When assessing the possible aggregation of transport modes, it is important to sort out the challenges that can be solved by such aggregation and the challenges that can best be solved through the further development of existing cooperation between administrations. So the Department of Transport has started a job of looking at how to coordinate work better, and possibly organise something different for us than today. This is a work that has been done internally in the department, and now we want to draw up experiences from our neighboring country. That work seems to me to be an external editor. Then I can make the Stortinget aware of a difference between the Swedish and Finnish Riksdag and the Norwegian Storing – it is the role of the Riksdag and the Stortinget. As a proxy, I was always busy with the possibility to ask questions and discuss issues about local relations with different government councils. As a Transport Council, I answer extremely many and sometimes very detailed questions about matters that are currently under the Railway Agency or the State Road Administration. In this respect, it is tempting to mention for those who are most concerned with reorganization and more efficient use of resources that they might be able to practice a little in the meantime. Some of the questions that create a lot of work both in the Railway Agency and in the State Road Service, whether there are detailed questions about reading baskets, signs, middle parts of a special turn or other matter, borders today to what a depositor should ask. In any case, they'll be out-of-date with a reorganization.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2470	Finally, we could have a separate debate on this. As an avid questioner, I would strongly argue that it is an important part of our democratic system that we from Stortinget can challenge the position of asking questions. So I'd like to get back to that at a different ratio. But until that matter applies, and the line here. In the letter to which the Council itself has referred, you are relatively positive about this, but it seems that the fear of conversion means that you end up being negative and rejecting what you really are for. I would like to make another comment. It is the Ministry of Transport that has itself started to assess coordination and organisation. That's good. But is maritime transport included? In the answer here we talk about rail and road, but in the proposal from the majority of the vote we are concerned about getting on with maritime transport. At all, we are committed to improving the quality of maritime transport. It is then important that it also participates in the work on coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2479	Let me stress for the sake of order that I agree with Mr Sortevik that there should be great opportunities to ask questions to the sitting government about different matters, but I just say that the consequence of such a reorganization will be an extensive form of delegation of different matters. The Stortinget cannot expect the matter to be withdrawn in Stortinget with as extensive a basis as it is today. So I have noticed what has been said about maritime transport. He is now involved in the work of the National Transport Plan and must be withdrawn if he is to obtain more goods by sea. Overall, cooperation with the Coastal Administration and the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry must be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2487	It is true that the NTP device itself was simply a device to coordinate more. It was actually Oddvard Nilsen from the Right who took the initiative that it should happen. Now it hasn't been such a very obvious coordination. Several times we have called for the possibility of some scenarios, i.e. looking up the carriers and making a balance in a more decision-making perspective. We haven't done that yet. Earlier in the debate I said that I would not brag by the government any more. I actually did that this summer, and I can repeat it. It's about the planning along Mjösa. It's very good that it happens. There is also a comment in the budget position that we should be doing more of this. So I hope that the Council of State keeps going. What I want to ask you is about the strategy papers that the agencies produce, which are valid in a much longer perspective than the NTP period. Will the Council of State publish them, as Navarsete did?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2496	We've already published such a document, that's the northern region division. It's a document that we're asking you to think about in a 30-year perspective. It was now published in November. We will use the work that will be done in January, for discussions with the county councils. I don't have any idea of any less publicity about these documents than what's been used to before. On the contrary, I think it is important that they participate and form the basis for the debate. When it concerns the Coastal Plant, and if we move on to the departmental structure, it is the sitting government that determines the structure itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2503	I also thought I heard the representative Halleraker boasting of the Minister for Fisheries and Coast today. He has not kept his promise not to say anything positive about the government more than once. I am also in favour of what the government signals in this matter, because I think it's constructive, also the idea of seeing things more in context. Then I want to use a concrete example. We now have a very exciting high-speed train layout. Obviously, if we don't see the meaning that the project can have for road and air, it's very difficult to see this as an important socio-economic element. I feel that the state council is now saying that there is a work to see more in context. We're also going to include external data. Will it also ensure that the high-speed train provision also benefits other sectors – I am thinking of road and air –?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2510	The work on the revision of the national transport plan is actually organised even more open and more external than at the time of the development of the national transport plan. It's e.g. such that a representative from the county councils, the councillor of Telemark, is in the steering group. It's because we also need to secure the necessary processes at an early stage in the county councils, with the large share that they also have when it comes to the transport network. So the question was the issue of the high-speed distribution. There's the answer, yes, I think it's quite obvious that the distribution that also forms an important basis, as it's said here, for both road and climate, becomes public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2517	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2520	When the Progress Party is promoting a proposal for the first time in the Grand Duchy, it does not always fall into good soil. Some years later, when we promote the same proposal, we can be ignored. After a while, other parties promote the good proposals of the Progress Party as their own, without praising the Advance Party that for years ago we were very predictable. The party proposed to repeal the NRK monopoly for a long time, but these proposals only received two votes for the party for the first time. The authorities seized paraboles, and people were probably almost housed if they were connected to a joint facility that could accommodate Swedish TV. Fortunately, this is history, and no one wants to go back to the monopoly. In 1993, the Progress Party promoted a groundbreaking proposal to seek a merger of the administration of road, rail and air transport in one directorate. The proposal was promoted in the nomination of the Transport Committee on Norwegian Railway Plan 1994-97. This groundbreaking proposal was supported only by the Progress Party. So the Christian People's Party chose to oppose it. The proposal was as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to merge the administration of road, the railway and aviation routes into one Directorate.’ This proposal was then re-launched in the context of the State budget for 2011 in Innst. 2 S for 2010–2011. The case was dealt with at Stortinget on 25 November 2010, and the proposal was rejected by 78 votes to 24. So the Christian People's Party once again chose to vote against. It is positive that the Christian People's Party, at least gradually adopts our policies in this area, as they have done in the proposal for a representative to be discussed. I am very pleased with the future, for how long will it take before the Christian People's Party will also support other important progress party proposals? For example, how long will it take? take before they embrace the award funding of the primary schools, which I would think will be popular among the party's voters? So I'm glad that the Christian People's Party here shows that in practice they agree more with the policies of the Progress Party than they choose to show with words in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2538	I think it is quite remarkable to hear how far the Advance Party is always ahead of its time. I guess the next thing we're going to hear is that there really was a person from the Progress Party who anticipated the invention of the wheel. I'm one of those who's been in favour of structural organisational changes in the transport sector. It's actually a thought that I brought with me from the Ministry of Transport at the end of the 1980s, where at that time you actually looked closer at the establishment of your own transport system. At that time it was quite premature. Now we have gained other experiences, including: the experience of the reorganisation that was the result of an ideological invention at Sem during the Bondevik administration, and which overnight, almost to say, turned up on the roadside, a plant that at that time worked quite well, in my opinion, but which was paralysed quite vigorously for several years by a bardu reorganization, which was also not properly investigated. In the light of the experience gained at the time, I very much appreciate that both the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber have such an open position that, when time and place are ready, and it is actually at the next revision of the National Transport Plan, you can enter into a substantive debate on changes in the transport sector. It's actually pretty important. I have made myself the spokesman for about the same thoughts that underlie this proposal. I will continue to lead them into the public debate, because through a broad public debate on these issues, we will have a far, far better basis for making decisions when that time comes, i.e. before the 2013 big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2549	I actually thought Steinar Gullvåg's wise words had seemed to end this debate, but I only wanted to comment briefly on the last post of the Progress Party from the representative Vosskensen. It is not that the Christian People's Party has concluded here and could have gone for the proposal that the Progress Party apparently made in 1993. What we're asking for is an explanation. We want this to be done, in order to get both the benefits and the disadvantages of it. We haven't concluded that out of proportion. That has been the point of this matter. We now mean that the situation, based on the experience we can gain from both Sweden and Finland, makes this more relevant. So I thought it was great that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party could stand together on this, and the Christian People's Party has a very relaxed relationship with the Advance Party. We have supported many of their proposals. We are evaluating every proposal from the Progress Party. The ones we think is good, we support, and the ones we don't appreciate, we don't support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2558	I could not cheer myself up after listening to the representative of Gullvåg. I understand that, unfortunately, he may have a bit of a hard time bringing with him everything that is being said. I registered that in the previous case he had not got what I actually said. When I talked about bad roads, I didn't talk about Westfold, but I actually talked about the telemark roads. I also think it is a bit sweet that the representative of Gullvåg has to go up to the pulpit and tell him that he thinks it is so bad that the Progress Party tells us that this has been promoted in the past. He was concerned that he had actually made the same thoughts himself, that he had even aired it in the state roadway at the time he was there. Then it becomes a little delicious and a little sweet. But I think the Council of State had a good account of how the Council of State looks at the matter. I think that was a good answer to the questions. So I'd like to see the Council of State have been a little bit more positive. I feel in many ways that today’s debate – in terms of organisation and the sort of thing – has gone on several times today, and I believe at least that it is very sensible to look at a new reorganisation, so that you get all the infrastructure into one department that is responsible for everything that is involved in transport and infrastructure, because I see that it is a ‘missing link’. Then you have to talk about good cooperation between the Coastal Agency and the Port Departments of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department and the State Road Administration. But I hear a lot of feedback from those who run the ports around Norway, and they don't feel the same way they're being taken – all the recordings you have, and the idea of seeing things in context. If you want intermodality, with the challenges there, you feel that it's a missing link. That's what this is about, and we actually think that by getting everything into one department, which is responsible for all the infrastructure in the transport area, we could do a lot of good. That is what this proposal is all about. I think it's been a good debate, until Gullvåg had a great need to tell about all the thoughts he's been thinking. Then I hope that the thoughts continue to go the right way, so that when you come back later, it might be that Gullvåg supports the idea that you should have one transport rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2571	I feel the need to catch up with a somewhat sweet talk that the Advance Party gives me – it can easily become quite sticky. Otherwise, I would like the representative Hoksrud to maintain a slightly higher level of precision than he has, so that he can be easily perceived. But I don't think it's so strange, when he can't even hear what's being said from this pulpit. Then it's not so nice if he also draws crazy endings bumped and still. So let me repeat to Hoksrud's announcement that I was not employed in the State Road Administration at the end of the 1980s, when I was employed in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2578	Then it's clear. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2596	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2605	Common to both the previous case and this is that we are shown ideological change-reduction to a significant extent. Then, as case rapporteur, I will take responsibility for not extending a long day, and try to make a brief statement on the matter. The case concerns a proposal from several representatives in the Right to use project funding models in Norwegian transport. Project funding has been discussed quite promptly earlier today, throughout the day. I'm just going to conclude that the majority of the committee has a recommendation, and that majority consists of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, and we want to use project funding models. The minority, which are the government parties, have a different view and also a different proposal, and I'm sure they will come into this. Let me make it clear, on behalf of what is a majority in the committee, that with project funding, we mean something similar to the main business organisation, namely that there are all kinds of funding solutions that ensure that a project is allocated to the entire project at start-up. Then the Progress Party has its own proposal, which I am referring to here, on an enhanced funding tool to speed up the implementation and implementation of the existing NTP, i.e. the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. We want a separate case on an extended funding base, so that we can ensure the coherent development of large projects through binding financing decisions and through the use of just project funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2618	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2621	It is true that this topic has been up several times before today, but there are some things that have become hanging a bit in the air, which I would like to comment on. I would also like to answer questions that came, materially from the government parties. One question that was hanging in the air came from Tone Merete Sønsterud, who wondered if the Right was aware that we were going to commit the budgets forward. It's probably a well-intentioned question, but of course we are. That's actually also a little bit of purpose. Because we see that despite the fact that we have a rule of action that gives us a relatively large room for action for the very purposes for which the rule of action was intended, one third of which was to go to infrastructure and transportation measures, it is not the case today. Nearly to force us to do that, we want to introduce models where it happens. It is true, as the Labour Party leader noted, and as others have noted, that of course there will be greater and greater confiscation of the framework for trade. What is then a logical consequence is that the framework must gradually become larger as well. It is true that what is going on today — the share of it in the state budget — is actually down to 2pst. At the end of the 1980s, we were up to 8 pst. This means that there are other purposes that have been given more and more funding over our state budget, while transport has been losing out over the years. We need to find solutions and models to that and meet them. Otherwise, I'm afraid that we don't get the development that I think most people who honestly are busy building the country want, and perhaps especially if we think of such large and frontier projects as expanding a modern railway for Norway within a reasonable time horizon. So it's said, is this to be modern, then? When we say that we want to modernise and use new tools, it's kind of pro and versus the three gentlemen Sandman, Opseth and Johnsen, who say that today's methodology is old-fashioned, now it has to be thought again. Yes, we fully agree with that. That's what we call modernisation. Now poor Sverre Myrli has been mentioned several times from this pulpit today, but he was actually at Stortinget as a representative of a slightly different culture in the honored government party Labour Party, because at the end of the 1990s the Workers' Party modernized very much also in Norwegian transport. But what happened in 2001? Well, then it was the brakes on, because then there was someone else who ran the premise for the Labour Party's policy, and they paid well for it. That's what happened. So I'm a little disappointed when one – now one shouldn't be too personal from this pulpit – young, modern woman that the Labour Party leader doesn't see the dimensions of developing society by modern means. She doesn't have to take a line on me for this, because it's well intended. I know that she has a great sense of business dynamics and private dynamics in other contexts. I'm not going to spend so much more time on it, but it's referred to other countries. Yes, many other countries, which have not been mentioned here today, use private funding. For example, almost the whole of Europe is building. its roads by private means. So one says we don't have to finance loans. We're financing loans almost all of the roads we're building today, with tolls. They're built with tolls. What's the difference? The government has put in place an interest-reimbursement mechanism to enable the county to raise loans and to make interest payments above the State budget. No, I'll follow up on what was said before me: Study the NHO Book on OPS. It kills a lot of myths. I will finally address the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2640	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2643	The debate on this topic has actually taken place in previous speeches today, and I allow myself to refer to the contributions that have been made by representatives of the Workers' Party, from SV, from me and from the Council of State on the topic of project financing, where the views you have on it have been explained, and also what you are doing today. At the same time, I would like to refer to the opinions given by the Council of State, including in writing, in relation to inviting a prejudice-free, open and thorough debate related to the roll-out of the National Transport Plan and the financing of projects. Then I intend not to extend the debate any more, other than to promote the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2650	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2653	It should be unnecessary to repeat it once more, but I do it to be neat: the most important thing when we now have an offensive policy in the transport sector is, of course, to add funds to the projects that we are going to undertake. With 322 billion. kr over the state budget for the development, operation and maintenance of the road and rail networks, ports and fairways, and hence 100 billion. kr more than in the previous plan, it is clear that we are in a different situation when the funds are involved. Then the government will phase in its efforts to move in line with the possibilities and limitations of a defensive economic system. So we've done that. In 2010, we had a significant phase-in already the first year of the planning period, and we have now done well for the escalation that we are following, and that is a prior warning. It shows, I think, that it's possible to realize an increase in turnover within today's system. So the question is, what does project funding mean? For those who are particularly interested, it is possible to go back to the Yellow Book and the review there, which says that project funding can be ‘ designation of selected projects. Toll company organisation for the financing of a specific project or route. OPS Development Company and the operation and maintenance of a specific project or route. the organisation of one or more State-owned limited liability companies to undertake the development of specific projects or sections within a given timeframe, with State-owned debt financing.’; – It is mentioned earlier today. ‘Swiss model scheme with State loans for selected road and rail investments under the direction of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency, with repayment of instalments and interest in future budgets.’ Now let's try out a little bit of different models in today's NTP. We have these three projects on special posts in the state budget: E16 over Filefjell, E6 west of Alta and new double tracks Oslo-Ski. The active use of tolls for special projects does not understand I am not in any case the Progress Party adds to OPS project. Then we have experience with three projects where we saw that what was decisive, in fact, was neither that they were cheaper, nor that they were more expensive, but that it was progressing, so that the whole road was means available. And more funds are now available. Then in the setting there are named different types of project – there are also Gardermoen named as a type. What we don't talk so much about was that in that project, the actual state -- the Stortinget -- went into debt between 6 and 7 billion. kr. So today's government has a rational implementation of start-up transport investments. We'll give it a high priority over the years to come. But we see that there's a lack of debate about different alternative funding models, and we're laying a foundation for that in the rolling of the national transport plan that I've already mentioned. We've ordered two distributions, one that goes on the diet-benefits that we use today, another that goes on experience from other countries. Then the representative Øyvind Halleraker confirmed that it is the commitment to the future budget that is the point. There is an unknown x there, that is, the interest cost, which is low now, but which may vary, and which may be present at some point and put a little bit of paint into all the promised around OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2686	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2689	Now this is a proposal for project financing, not for OPS specifically. Project funding has a much higher content than OPS – let's say that. Let me also say that we are pleased that the government has come beyond what the Prime Minister said here in this Chamber a few years ago, when he said that we have project funding – every project has its funding. It's not that simple. The majority, who will have tried out project funding, define this as a financing solution, which means that a project is secured appropriations for the entire project at start-up. The government’s model, with three separate items in each annual government budget, does not meet that definition. Can the Council of State explain how this solution to the government, with its own items in the annual budget, meets the project funding requirement, which is not only the majority, but which is also outside the Chamber, namely that this should ensure that the entire project is committed at start-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2697	Let me first say that what I referred to in the Yellow Book is a review of different models related to project financing. There may be even more, and I would also like to be involved in a scheme to discuss the roll-out of the National Transport Plan – both what experience we have here in Norway, and not least what experience is also from other countries. With the three projects now in their own posts, the idea is to add the funds needed every year. That's what we do in the E6 west of Alta. There's not that project as clear as we thought, we hope we've got it back on track. On File Mountain, it's going its way. Then I see that someone has now called for the propulsion of Oslo-Ski. That's exactly why it's also on its own account and gets added funds. So there's fast progress on Oslo–Ski – as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2704	I call the three projects in my own budget line for project budgeting. Most people in other countries think I'll follow it – one understands something else with project funding. So this with interest expense: In all cases — at least business-economic — the theory is always a question of what is alternative returns and alternative risks. So when it comes to alternative returns, those who also have good money use debt financing and long-term financing to use the cash they have for daily and up-to-date investments. But I want to challenge the Council of State on a question, and it's up to her to let this issue also be the subject of the consultation round in connection with the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2713	For that the answer is yes. I have already notified this to the county councils and businesses with which I have been in contact – I have been invited to several meetings related to alternative funding. That's the answer. I think it's important that this topic too be the subject of the hearing process that should be. If it is to be put down as a question and answer: at least what has been clarified is that there will be a theme for the meetings that we are going to hold already in February. So I'm sitting with a calculator that tells me about pretty big bonds in relation to the right's arrangement here. I also thought it was good to get involved as part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2720	It's not that easy to get completely wise on the government when it comes to this particular question. Because when you stick to the script, it seems like you're very clear against it. But when you have the ability to think a little bit more freely, you see some of the advantages. I'm thinking about what the Council of State signal gave us in the spring, when she starts researchers looking at and distributing new forms of funding for roads and other transport investments. It must be because you're open to look at this, to take this in. These are the arrangements that I'm going to find out that the Council of State here refers to. But my question is: do I see the Council of State – and now I'm talking beyond 2013 – an opening for alternative forms of financing of OPS, based on the experience you have, and the research arrangements that lie there, if they were positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2729	What I said in ours, and as I would like to repeat now, for the first time, is that what I think is decisive to realize the transport projects that we want to realize, is to spend enough money at any time. What I said in addition, is that here researchers have started different arrangements. What I also said was that during this period – that is, until 2013 – today's funding is fixed, i.e. state resources on the railways, public funds and tolls on the road. That's precisely because we've seen these statements going on and notify them that there's going to be a debate on these questions. This is because there is a big message that applies in 2013–2023, one should address these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2736	I bring the state budget down here, and then I register that the government council said we're running project finance, and we've got three posts on the state budget, which means they're being followed up financially, so you can build until you're done. It's the whole point of project financing that you actually make the funds available at the start, and then you have to build as soon as you can, until you're done. Then I have to ask the Council of State how she can make it to post 31 New double-track Oslo-Ski is the same as project funding. Because after two years, there are 747.5 million missing. kr against the framework that should have been set by the first two years, if you were to follow up in order to get started and complete construction. The wolf – Sinsen is another example of a project where you have had to stop in the middle of the year, because you had no more money to build the project. The excavators stood still instead of building the road, with the cost increases it brought.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2745	That is exactly what we are talking about earlier today: the difference between 2010 and 2011. If we go back a few years, and I don't want to surprise anyone for that reason, this is exactly the whole time to ensure progress in different projects. I think Hoksrud and I have to be a little bit more of a means at my disposal to keep progressing in different projects, whether we bring them to our own post or not. But then this was done, because these three projects were to be followed in particular. When it comes to Oslo-Ski, I just have to tell you that there's a big effort here to keep progress as fast as possible. I would like to say something more about it – I am glad that I see Hoksrud coming back. But why would we set 700 million in 2011. kr extra on book when we add funds year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2752	Bård Hoksrud – to line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2755	I asked for the word for a three-minute post. I think I need a little bit more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2760	The representative didn't ask for the word in reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2763	I asked for the word for a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2769	The cord shift is over. Then we go back to the regular list of speakers, which was now very improvised. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2776	It wasn't meant to mess it up relative to the lines, but I felt that I needed a little more time than just taking it as a line to the council. We heard that the government in the budget debate boasted that, among other things, opened 8 km at E18 in Østfold. What are the consequences, as the representative Schou said? Well, the consequence is that you have to tear down the equipment, and then you have to set it up again in two years. We also experienced the same thing on the E6 at the Millenian Fry. So you'd have done everything, and you'd have to tear down after building the tunnel, because you'd have to wait two years to build two miles on the other side. That's exactly what you want to do by getting either OPS or project funding, by making funds available as soon as you start building, so that you build the projects as soon as possible. The OPS project E39 in Orchid is an excellent example of how to make the funds available when you start the project and you have all the means you need to complete the road construction. Instead of spending eight years, which would be the normal process, 2.4 years were spent building the road finished, and maintenance was financed afterwards. That is what this is all about, and that is what is important for the Progress Party. It is not that we welcome OPS or project financing at all costs. What we're concerned about, and what we want to do, is make the funds available, so that you can build and make sure that you have the best progress in the development of the projects. Those who pay tribute to OPS or who pay tribute to project funding that has not been done or who place entries on the State budget – those who do so are busy – are to ensure that the funds are available so that they can be deployed in the most rational and efficient way possible. That's what it's all about, and that's what the OPS projects have been able to show: you can expand faster, and you can expand so that you can complete far faster than what you're doing in the traditional way. The Council of State says today: This is so good that we have now set up some posts on the state budget. Setting up records on the state budget does not help if it is not followed up with money. It's actually money that's needed to build this. The Progress Party wishes to expand roads with full funding from the State. Someone else wants to use OPS to finance in a way that doesn't come through the government budget, but it'll be a little later. We believe that we have the opportunity to do so, and therefore we propose to use OPS as a good organisational method to build infrastructure. But we don't necessarily think that OPS is the charity. It's a way to have a good organization and a fast progress, but there might be other ways to do it. You have to make sure that you have fully financed by the state, so that you can expand as rationally and efficiently as possible, and not as on the E6 north of Oslo, where you have ten projects. Instead, there should have been fewer but more efficient projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2787	Now this is a matter to which we come back in connection with the national transport plan. But just to make it clear – and I take the Oslo project as an example. When it applies to what was done at night by maintenance and renewal, and that actually will mean something to the railway in the whole country, the point was that there is a lot of uplifting and downgrading all the time, unrelenting, because it's going to be railroad parallel. That's why we hooked up this summer and we'll shut down the next summer. That means that we also have to be concerned about the practical aspects of different projects. I would urge Hoksrud to be realistic, because I have listened to what he has said today about, for example. Eidanger Tunnel. It's not just about money. Whether it is the Eidanger tunnel or other railway tunnels or different road projects, it is a matter of planning. So there are certain formalities associated with different projects that also take time. Then I can report that I am busy simplifying some of these processes, for example: the system set up under the name of the concept exchange operation and quality assurance 1 and 2. There are processes I am busy simplifying. But in addition, there are regulatory plans, there are many local policy decisions to be taken. All of this must be taken into consideration. So it's like not just creating a project organisation and doing and running. So I'd like to say a few words about Oslo-Ski. Oslo-Ski is a project that I myself have followed closely, precisely because I know about the expectations associated with it, I know about the promises that have been given, and I want to follow up with as fast progress as possible in the planning process. Then it was a pleasure to call in the different municipalities that were involved, listen to their opinion around the table and actually agree on, in that case, a partial state plan. But we necessarily had to spend some time before we got there. If the Oslo-Ski project had had 700 million. kr on book or not, I don't think anything from or to, for those who run that process are aware that they have hanging over themselves that it is going to happen with as fast progress as possible, so that we can get over from plan to construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2796	I am listening with pleasure to the Council of State, which, at least when she is released, is for new forms of funding – project financing, OPS and what may be – while it is more difficult to coordinate with someone who, for ideological reasons, does not like it. Project financing, OPS or what to call it is more than a funding. It's a method. It's a method for how to manage to build continuously and predictablely in one stretch, so that people know when the road or the railway is finished. That's essentially what you're asking out there. For us who drive a train or a car or what it has to be, the question is, When can you expect the double track in the intercity triangle? With the pace now at hand, it'll take 40 years. So it's not durable. Business can't afford it. We can't afford that as a good nation, nor can we afford the travellers. Those who travel today probably have no prospect of experiencing it, at least if you're at my age. Everywhere else, there is a sense of transport projects and funding, wherever we have traveled with the Transport Committee, such as British Columbia in Canada, in the United States and in Europe, and that does not mean just referring to the worst countries, as England does, as I hear the position. There are other European countries, with nine-time priorities and selected projects, who choose different types of funding, not just for funding but for the methodology. We don't have to go further than to the neighbouring country of Sweden, which with socialist rule was actually the ones who cheered on that way of doing it. We don't have to go abroad to find experience figures. Three OPS projects have been carried out in Norway, and Skanska built the first, the E39 Orkdal Road. We've looked at the sums that society saved on that project. It was implemented in a slightly different way than the standard business model in Norway. It was built 22 km by motorway in 26 months. 10 km went into the tunnel, and 12 bridges were built. If the project had followed the «normal» business model, the construction time would probably be 43 months. When I mention these things – I could go further on a further millions and billions saved – it's also about the previous case, about building completely, using new methods for the future. We now have under construction 14 km of railway in Westfold, with seven contractors – seven rigs with similar materials. So good advice only has one who doesn't bear the cost immediately. As a social leader – both the government, I trust the Council of State, and we as representatives in this Chamber – must be responsible for finding the best methods that can be found at the least price, but with great security and quality, can provide us with the best transport policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2807	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2815	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2822	A total of 71 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 12 and 13, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 14-64, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 65 and 66, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 67, by Øyvind Halleraker, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 68 to 71, from Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 68, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a national collective plan with a concrete overall overview and concrete objectives for the development of the collective offer in Norway, where the various modes of transport are seen in the context.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2860	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 69-71, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a state incentive scheme for walking and cycling, following the model of the State reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in urban areas. The aim of the scheme shall be to influence the planning of transport in municipalities and counties and to act as an incentive for better organisation for walking and cycling.» Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to address the infrastructure needs of the northern regions, including the extension of the railways from Narvik to Tromsø, and to provide it appropriately to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present its own case for measures to increase the use of alcohol.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2887	There is a vote on proposal No. 67, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:2 S [[2010-2011]] The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2904	There is a vote on proposal No. 66, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests an assessment/investigation of the Eidanger new plant on the Vestfold track as soon as possible and electrification/repair of the Meråkerbahn as OPS projects.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e2921	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14-43, 45-48, 50-59, 61, 63 and 64, from the Party of Progress Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State Transport Authority responsible for supervising and controlling all transport by road, rail, aviation and maritime transport. The Transport Authority shall submit an annual report to the Stortinget on the achievement of the objectives of Norwegian transport. The size assumes that such reporting is based on concrete objectives and minimum standards for all transport sectors and that supervision is provided with concrete means of sanction.’;» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is calling for much greater use of life-cycle centre prices and total contractor prices in the construction of large road and rail projects.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on financing and development of major transport projects of national importance, irrespective of the national transport plan.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: The Government is asked to draw up an annual maintenance report for the national road network as a whole.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that annual toll payment and use schedules are drawn up on all types of roads as long as toll financing is provided for the construction and operation of infrastructure and that such an overview is provided to the Storting annually in an appropriate manner.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of taxes and charges in the transport sector, with proposals for a future strategy for the use of taxes and charges in order to achieve national transport policy objectives.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to submit its own case as soon as possible for the state financing of debts in existing toll companies and for projects adopted but not initiated, involving toll financing, on the basis of which the State takes over or redeems the debt.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for state funding of debt in existing toll companies, etc., to propose the use of new financing tools to ensure the necessary development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network in Norway over a maximum of 25 years based on full state funding.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an assessment of State funding for the entire financing of transport projects involving toll financing, in order to reduce the total cost of financing such projects.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the State funding share of transport projects involving toll financing is granted and paid in line with the project’s financial sharing assumptions.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the repeal of § 27 and § 27A of the Act 21 June 1963 No. 23 Road Laws.’» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to prepare a 100-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. crowns The size presupposes that existing plans/packages for the development of road and rail-based projects currently financed or planned with tolls are financed entirely by the State. The government is asked to set up its own steering group for the major bid using state regulatory plans. The size implies the state management of a modernisation package for each of the cities reporting to the Storting in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case for the development of future collective solutions in the major cities during 2011.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency, and that such development is part of the development of a traffic nodal point where several modes of transport are directly linked. The government is asking the government to present its own case on this matter.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to establish ongoing State supervision of the Urban Railway Project in Bergen.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate intermodal nodes in Bergen/Flesland and Trondheim/Værnes.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up its own node plan to ensure good node solutions where several modes of transport meet.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the work of the Alnabru Terminal to be carried out by cancelling the plan and the development of an external operator through tenders.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘During 2011, the government is asked to present its own key messages on the strategy and measures related to efficient maritime transport and port structure.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a free ferry system on the national road network.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘In 2011, the government asked the Government to present its own notification on the modernisation of Norwegian aviation policy based on the Norwegian aviation strategy of June 2008, submitted reports on aviation safety in Norwegian aviation, and Document No. 8:16 [[2008-2009]] Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The Government is asked to incorporate legal liability into the Road Traffic Code for accidents caused by road keepers.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a complaint concerning a system for the classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The budget requires the Government to present a new and binding plan for the renewal of the National Budget for 2011.’» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a higher speed for mopeds.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to have the driving test carried out under the supervision of traffic schools approved for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government requests unrated driving licences for persons under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: «The government asks in connection with the work of the State Budget for 2012, share the chapter of the day. Item 23 of a number of budget headings 1320 to clarify the amount allocated to the individual purposes of the current item.’.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a system which automatically gives persons who are bound by their property for infrastructure purposes the right to redeem the properties at market value immediately after the plans have been approved.’;» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to explore the possibilities and effects of establishing a functional and decommissioning system of ring roads leading to traffic away from Oslo City, based on Rv. 23, Rv. 35 and Rv. 120, alternatively rv. 22nd@item: inlistbox ‘... Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘In 2011, the government is asked to present its own notification of the conditions under which the taxi industry operates and the necessary legislative changes.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for a reward scheme to secure the school roads.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to open up the competitive opening of all sections of Norway.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government is asked to share today’s cap in connection with the work of the State Budget for 2012. 1350 item 23 in two, so that in the railway works budget there are two separate items for operation and maintenance.» Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to liquidate the exclusive right of Post Norway AS for correspondence under 50 grams from 1 July 2011.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement as soon as possible the necessary measures and clarifications allowing local initiatives to complement state road allocation to be organised through regional and local road companies with their own funding and without the use of tolls.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to apply State regulation to all expansion projects on the national road network and the rail network’.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘During 2011, the government is asked to present its own case for the renewal, simplification and efficiency of work on national transport plans, in particular adapted to stronger governance of the national and national roads.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report during 2011 on the development and financing of a modern and efficient transport network for the period 2012 to 2040.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to dispose of the ownership of Baneservice AS.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a case in which the use of fully funded OPS projects is assessed on routes: – E39 Kristiansand– Sandnes – E6 Otta– Vindalsliene – E6 Selli/Steinkjer–Fauske – Rv. 4 Gålleråsen – Gran and Jaren – Mjøsbrua – Rv. 35 Hokksund–Hønefoss–Klöfta – Rv.2 Klöfta–Kongswinger–Magnor/Riksgren – E6 fergefree at Tysfjord – E6 Åsen–Vist – E18 Oslo–Riksgrensen/Örje – E6 Lillehammer–Ringebu – E6 Kolomon–Lillehammer – E134 Drammen–Haukeli–Bergen with access routes – E6 Alta–Laksselv – E6 Corporals bru–Jaktøya – E18 Langangen–Dørdal – E6 Ringebu–Otta – E18 Gulli–Langåker/Bomstad – E16 Bjørum–Hønefoss – E6 Dal–Minnesund–Skaberud – Rv. 25 Hamar-Løten and Rv. 3 Løten–Elverum – E136 Dombås–Ålesund – E18 Tvedestrand–Dørdal – E39 Rogfast – E18 Tvedestrand–Arendal – Rv. 555 Sotra compound – Rv. 23 Dagslett – Linnes – Lier – E39 Orkanger – Klett [[SCREAMING]] Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘During 2011, the government is asked to present its own key strategy and measures related to efficient maritime transport and port structure, with effect from the financial year 2012.’» Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an action plan for the management of all shipwrecks along the Norwegian coast.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer responsibility for ports and fairways from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast to the Ministry of Transport in connection with the 2012 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan with the corresponding funding for the necessary upgrading and renewal of the Coast Guard Depository Equipment and the Coast Guard Authority’s own vessels to strengthen coastal oil protection.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of its own case on sectoral fees for maritime transport and assumes that an independent analysis of the need for unloading services and the collection of unloading services is carried out through sector fee.’;» Proposal No. 64 sounds: «The government is asked to promote a case which addresses the financial consequences for municipalities and municipalities in connection with the introduction and operation of the new emergency network. The case must also make it clear how the additional costs, if any, are to be financed.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e3269	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 44, 49, 60 and 62, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the standard of operation and maintenance in accordance with the applicable manual 111 continue to apply to the other national road networks even after transfer to the counties.’;» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asking for statistics on direct and indirect energy consumption for the various modes of transport to be compiled.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised National Budget for 2011 with its own plan for a significant increase in the level of funding associated with the re-labelling of fairways.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all public actions in the public sector related to accidents and emissions, routinely as part of a permanent evaluation process, are also audited by the National Audit Office.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e3303	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to include the non-state airports of Stord, Notodden and Ski in the cross-subsidisation system currently operated between State airports.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e3320	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a systematic identification of the racial hazard along the national and county roads and for the preparation of a binding action plan. The objective must be to ensure that Norwegian highways are safe from the dangerous race and consequent unwarranted loss of knowledge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e3335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, three, four, nine and eleven from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up and implement concrete measures for the good path for the national road and the county road, respectively, in the form of minimum standards. The size assumes that the roads are regularly measured by the supervisory authority in accordance with established standards and that infringements of requirements are met with penalties.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking that satisfaction with national and county roads be measured regularly among users.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward for the reversal of the administrative reform in the field of transport, so that those more than 17 000 kilometres of roads transferred to the county municipalities on 1 January 2010 are returned to the State.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a uniform standard applies to all national road ferries transferred to the counties from 1 January 2011 in order to ensure national standard on the ferry offer.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for the construction of alternative routes to the inner port of Bergen in the revised national budget for 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e3372	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 5-8 and 10, from the Party of Advancement and Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case on financing tools for investments in the transport sector. The size assumes that this is done independently of the treatment of a new national transport plan.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate driver training and to increase the commitment to supervision of driver training as soon as possible in order to improve quality.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the route-ATK as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that external quality assurance reports for large-scale State investment projects are published as soon as they are available.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests approval of 110 km/h as the speed limit on the best motorways as recommended by the State Road Administration.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to abolish the concession requirement of Post Norway for the obligation to maintain full banking services.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e5187	The Committee's position on I-XXII is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre's Party. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e5215	The Committee's position on B XXIII is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e5235	Alternatively, between the B XXIV and the proposal No. 65, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a stand-alone and independent road and road traffic control body to be responsible for the supervision of roads, road users and vehicles.’ The Committee's position on B XXIV was promoted by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre's Party. The Progress Party and the Left have announced support for the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e5406	The Committee's position on B XXV-L was promoted by the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e5677	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on supplementary supervision, control and reporting on the use of tolls.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6045	The Progress Party has announced that it will vote against II.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6200	During the debate, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:175 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6206	Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6230	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Janne Sjelmo Nordås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 3, from Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the use of project organisation models as OPS on appropriate infrastructure projects and requests the Government to initiate at least 3 road projects and 1 railway project each year with OPS organisation/financing.’; The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6261	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own case as soon as possible for an extended funding base for the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, which prioritises the continuous development of large-scale projects through committed financing decisions and the use of project funding.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6280	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:117 S [[2009-2010]] The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-08.ana.ud1569e6308	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
