ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e65	The reason why I am addressing today the issue of widespread use of temporary jobs in the university and higher education sectors is that this winter, through consultations and in dialogue with employees' organisations, I have caught up with the concerns that point out an excessive proportion of temporary staff and what it means in the fight to maintain competence and not least recruit new and good employees. I'm worried that I'm experiencing a lack of follow-up to these signals from political leadership in the department. There is no doubt that there is a need for flexibility in employment at universities and colleges, as in many other working groups. It is also quite natural that there is a higher proportion of temporary jobs among scientific staff — some jobs are, of course, temporary. We don't want to put any obstacles to this necessary flexibility, the one that the law is meant to capture. However, there is nothing to suggest that we should have an annual even and significant percentage increase. There is also nothing to suggest that the figure should be three to four times as high as in the labour market. In 2008, the proportion of temporary employees in all industries was 9 pst. In teaching, research and dissemination positions at universities and higher education institutions, the proportion was 43.7 pst. – 43.7 pst.Oh, my God! If you look at all employees at universities and colleges as a whole, the proportion is still 32 pst. In my view, this is a clear indication that the legislation is not being used according to intention, and it should have clearly aroused the interest of the Council of State. Why has it become like this? What can be done to make a change? These excessive figures are supported by stories of key experts who have been in temporary positions for 10–12 years, even up to 14 years. Of course, this is not an acceptable situation. There is a genuine interest in the work when one is still there after such treatment. For the employee it gives great uncertainty, it must feel like low recognition, and for the employee and the families it means great economic uncertainty. In a recruitment perspective, this is also clearly negative. We have clear feedback that good candidates do not find it attractive to apply for jobs on these terms. This means that the sector loses important renewal and strengthening of the environment of competence, and especially young people in the establishment phase will naturally be sceptical about this uncertainty. Young, and especially young women, are underrepresented in the positions. This is very unfortunate and is in itself reason to take a debate on this. How, for the future, are we to ensure a comprehensive and good environment of competence among academic staff with such personnel management? Missing recruitment will be a major threat to the efforts we as a nation want to have at higher education, and to the quality of the follow-up of the individual student. The right therefore agrees with the Action Space Committee that an initiative must be taken to find opportunities for recruiting young academics in permanent posts. In addition to the competence and recruitment issues that I have now pointed out, I would also like to point out the unfairness that arises when private educational institutions have other laws to deal with than government ones. In that case, private individuals also carry out their education services with a number of temporary staff equal to or less than the average in their working life. The State should take seriously its responsibility for being a good employer. It is strange, then, that the government has just been given an extended possibility of temporary employment by the Civil Service Act. I would like to say that if there is a difference in the employment situation in this respect, a better way is to assess whether the State should lead by example and make sure that it has a lower share of temporary employees than the rest of the labour force. So it's not like that, on the contrary. So we're experiencing a private sector that is related to the Working Environment Act and has a low proportion of temporary employees, and a government sector that has a completely different legal base and not least personnel strategy at this point. This is a strange situation. The councils needed a while ago to check whether the reality of the sector was really as bad as someone wanted it to be. She has been confirmed this far on the way through the report from the Action Space Committee. One of the important points raised there was just the high proportion of temporary jobs. The committee therefore made a clear recommendation to reduce the number and indicates that it is unfortunate that the proportion at state universities and higher education institutions is higher than in the rest of the world of work. The Council of State will probably show that there is now a grip on this, as another reality group – ‘Numbers and measures’ – is to be set up, but there is no need for investigation here to find figures, as we do have them. If the Council of State does not have them, she can get the figures from me broken down into job categories. It is strange that the Council of State does not follow the advice of the Action Space Committee, which will have the share at the same level as the rest of the world of work, but makes it its own objective to reduce use to the level of comparable knowledge professions. I'm wondering what that means. What is the objective of the Council of State here? What is she going to compare to, and what is the goal? After nearly five years with responsibility and a majority in their backs, SV has, in the opinion of the Council of State, taken action. It may be nice to have such a group of parties making proposals for action, but then the government and the magnification must first set a target for the work to be done. I therefore challenge in this interpellation the Council of State to tell the Storting about what they've done with this these years. I also challenge the Council of State to come to Stortinget with a clear and binding decommissioning plan, with the aim of the work. Predictability is an important element for each university and individual college, which, after all, must take the necessary action. By adopting such a plan, one could also have clear answers from the sector on what needs to be done in order to implement the reduction, what triggers this widespread use of temporary posts, and on what is needed in order to have the necessary room for action. The Bondevik II government saw the unfortunate development in the use of temporary posts in the university and higher education sectors and would therefore change the law so that there was equal treatment for all in the world of work. This was clear for deployment from 2006. Unfortunately, the government shift put an end to it. Now, when the Council of State says that this has to be done, she knows that she can get support from the parties that would do something about this four to five years ago. I hope the Council of State will now show political leadership – not through further investigation teams, but through concrete plans and implementation groups. We need to secure recruitment. What action will the Council of State take? We need to ensure competence. How will the Council of State follow up? The state must be a good and safe employer. Will the Council of State look at the Civil Service Act? I look forward with excitement to hearing the articles of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e91	I would like to thank the initiative for this debate and I would like to start by saying that there are too many temporary jobs in universities and colleges today – not only in terms of employment in scientific positions, but also in terms of employment in administrative posts. However, the higher education sector is a complex sector. It is therefore important to find out which specific posts have a large proportion of temporary staff, the reasons for this, and the legal framework used for employment. Not all forms of temporary employment are undesirable, as the representative Harberg was also concerned. But the representative shows in his interview that it is up to 40 p.m., or perhaps even more than that, temporary staff in scientific positions, and that this makes recruitment difficult. After a preliminary review of parts of the number material, I can see that when we talk about a share of about 40 pst. temporary staff also include employees in recruitment positions such as: scholarship and postdoctoral. So there's a slightly lower number that's reality here. Staff in a post of scholarship shall complete doctoral training during the period of employment. During the period of employment, the doctoral student is guaranteed a salary for living while the research is being trained, and social rights are also guaranteed in line with other workers. The alternative to such employment would be grant or loan arrangements. We see that, among other things, several EU countries practice this. Such schemes provide less social and economic security for young researchers. It is therefore a central part of EU policy now to improve the conditions for young researchers towards the conditions that exist for scholarship holders in Norway and some other northern European countries. So here we're actually a country of the past. Universities and higher education institutions do not only train young researchers for their own sector. The institute sector, industry, health and other demand also includes those who have completed a research course at a university or higher education institution. As a result, capacity is dimensioned to meet the needs of society as a whole for those who have completed such training. It goes without saying that you cannot or should not be stuck in recruitment positions. Universities and colleges will therefore always have a relatively high proportion of temporary staff, due to many recruitment positions, when all teaching, research and dissemination positions are seen together. There is some background to the need to compare with comparable activities elsewhere. Furthermore, there are some temporary jobs in professional management positions of institutions that have introduced governance arrangements, where managers are employed on an annual basis rather than elected. These will also be natural to continue. What worries me is that the sector also has a high proportion of temporary employees when one ignores the recruitment and management positions. Universities and colleges are well above the average in the use of temporary employment when comparing the pure figures with other sectors of society. However, there are considerable variations between the other social sectors as well. According to the Central Statistical Office, the sectors with the lowest proportion of temporary staff were around 5 p.m. in 2008, while the sectors with the highest share were around 14 p.m. Universities and colleges had the same year in excess of 17 pst. temporary employment in procedural posts and at the lower end of 20 p.m. in teaching and research positions. However, there are also considerable variations in the proportion of temporary employment, both between institutions and between the different teaching and research positions. In 2008, for example, higher education institutions had a higher proportion of temporary staff in professorates than universities, while universities had a higher proportion of temporary staff in primary education. Institutions also use positions differently. This could be done, for example, by: appears that temporary employment in externally funded research positions means a great deal for the total proportion of temporary staff at universities. At higher education institutions, it may appear that the lowest teaching and research positions have a similar impact on the overall proportion. But while there are differences between the university sector and the higher education sector, there are also variations between universities and between universities. I therefore believe it is important to identify the reason for these variations. What are the legal frameworks used by institutions when recruiting temporarily in the various positions? What is the significance of relationships such as differences in funding forms for the different tasks, difficulties in recruiting qualified staff, temporary employment needs due to leave and organisation of practical training for students? It is also important to clarify whether some extend the legal framework to employ temporarily too long, or whether there are legal frameworks that contribute to inappropriate development. To get a better overview of these variations and their causes, I therefore announced in March this year that I would set up a working group with representatives from, among others. the institutions and the civil servants’ organisations, just to clarify these issues. This working group shall also propose measures, including any legislative adjustments, which may help to reduce the proportion of temporary staff in the sector. We are now in the process of setting up this working group. But of course, I do not intend to await this review until the institutions have to start working to reduce this kind of employment. In the autumn of 2009, the letter of allocation to the institutions made it clear that from 2010 onwards they will have to report to the Ministry on the measures they have taken to reduce the number of temporary employment. In the annual management meetings between the Ministry and the institutions, the Ministry will pay great attention to the follow-up in this area. It is a recognition that the Council of State and the Ministry here are organisers of this kind of responsibility and activity. The responsibility is in the institutional management. It is important for me to point out the responsibility of both management and board. I have assumed that universities and colleges, together with the Norwegian Research Council, must have a strategic discussion on the career development of researchers temporarily employed on programmes and projects funded by the Research Council. The impact on employees must also be greater than at present in the design of research programmes and in the evaluation of the programmes. Furthermore, institutions must carry out annual discussions with the civil servants' organisations on the use of temporary employment. I believe that the measures now being implemented will lead to an improvement in this area. If further work is undertaken, measures requiring the participation of the Storting should be implemented, e.g.: of course, the Government will return to Stortinget with this. The representative Harberg also asks what measures have been taken by the government councils or their predecessors to reduce the proportion of temporary staff in the university and higher education sectors. I would then like to show that former State Council Øystein Djupedal presented Ot.prp. No 79 for 2005-2006. In dealing with this, he received the consent of the Stortingen to remove a basis under the law of higher education which allowed the institutions to employ temporarily, only the tasks of the project were organised. This was an act that was introduced into the law after the submission of Ot.prp. No 40 for 2001-2002 from the then State Council. So at that time, the Right was very quick to introduce additional provisions for temporary employment when they entered the government position. It is therefore uplifting, I think, that the representative Harberg, from the same party as the former Clemet Council, in the interview now shows that it has been a long time challenge for scientific staff to be over-employed in temporary posts. Of course, I look forward to the support of the Right in the government's work to reduce the use of temporary employment at our universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e123	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. It is good to see that at least the same can be said: there are too many temporary jobs. It may be particularly worrying that it is in the positions you should not expect. So it's nice that the Council of State points to it. A common understanding is always a good starting point for doing something about the matter. The law is designed to address the various challenges faced by different institutions or labour markets. We believe that this has been done a long time ago. When the Council of State points out that the change in the law of higher education that was promoted by our government, it was linked to the second proposal we had, to change the law of civil servants, so that it was the same law that applied both to state employees and to others, namely the law on working conditions. So it has to be seen in context. When you kept the official law as it is now, it was natural to remove that supplement. It was a natural consequence. There are two issues to be addressed in this case. One is to have fewer temporary employees. There was a lot of talk in the Council of State about it. The second is to reduce the duration of temporary jobs. I hope the Council of State has noticed that the academics have made concrete suggestions on how to do so. One way may be, for example: where a temporary employee has supplied publications or otherwise demonstrated competence in his work and delivered the goods, this should lead to a permanent position. I hope that there is something the Council of State will also take with it. The governance dialogue with the institutions is an important meeting place to address this issue. I am pleased that the Council of State will use it, both to help influence the culture of the institutions and to hear what is going on with aid and support from the government to ensure that this is implemented in a good way. So I look forward to the further work on the matter, and I'm excited about the debate that follows here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e134	I agree with the interpellant that I think we have a common sense of reality. It is important for me to stress that there are actually limits to what the Council of State can do, for example. the establishment of permanent posts. It's been a long time since the Council of State and the Department did that. What I can do is, as I said in my contribution, to be the initiator of the institutions themselves – because it is those who are responsible, and it is important for me to point out that they have a responsibility – therefore this initiative, together with the Research Council, to follow up career development, to set a career plan for each researcher, so as to avoid the sad story we have heard from many, that they go for too long as temporary employees. I have always pointed out that this is not my direct responsibility, but on the basis of the report from the Action Space Committee, I have taken the initiative to start a further process, with this working group that I am now putting down. The reason why I'm doing it, as I said, is not that we're going to wait to do something, because we're doing something all the time, but it's to get a number base, because there's so much variation and so much diversity in this system, as it is now. So we agree that there should be fewer temporary employees. We agree that there should be a better follow-up of individuals in temporary posts. Then there are probably too many temporary employees also in administrative positions. None of these reasons were going to speak for it, so here's an important cleanup work to do. But I understand that the right is concerned with the background of the changes that were made in the relationship between the Civil Service Act and the Higher Education Act and the Working Environment Act. An overall thought was behind from the former state councillor Clement's side, and also from the former councillor Djupedal's side when he changed the law again. I do not know how important this has been, but there is no doubt that the right over time has been more concerned about the possibility for an employer to use temporary labour. Government parties have been concerned that there should also be predictability and good working conditions for the employee. So nothing is better than that we agree on it. And nothing is better than that we can also get support from the Right, and perhaps also from other opposition parties, in the important work that now needs to be done both with the law and with how we motivate and stimulate a better follow-up of individual employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e149	I'm glad that the representative Harberg is taking this up. I record a recognition from the Right that it is unfortunate that qualified candidates have to go in temporary settings year after year. If there is also a recognition in the question from Harberg that the long and unhonourable struggle that Right has led to more use of temporary settings in the world of work is now over, then I'm more than willing to bend in the dust for it. Within higher education, one may always experience a certain use of temporary additions because it is actually a good alternative. The sector has a non-negligible number added to the grant settings that will take up education. The option for these will be ordinary loan and grant arrangements. In that case, it will provide less economic and social security. And since, among other things, Doctoral training also contributes to the competence of the rest of society, it goes without saying that a person cannot enter a permanent position during the training period. But even if we correct for these factors, the scale is too high. We cannot have an additional policy based on more use of temporary additions than is accepted in other sectors within higher education over time. Some of the best competitive advantages you can have in the public sector are just security in the position. In the fight for the best students, it must be accepted that when it comes to wage levels, a private sector easily loses. But if one loses both pay and security, then in the next round it will also go down on the quality of Norwegian higher education. We definitely can't afford that. From the Workers' Party's stand, we are convinced that more use of fixed settings can give us both professionally critical and committed researchers. In the academy there is always a certain danger that it can develop an unculture, where the presentation of controversial research results and opinions can easily create fear with regard to further careers. Hence, the right to permanent inclusion is also important for career development. It seems that the Academy has recently experienced an increase in the conflict of labour in many institutions. It is then appropriate to ask whether it is such that what is accepted and respected in Norwegian employment is not practiced in higher education. Although much of the basis for a good working environment is attached to actual rights and rules of the labour market, this is also about governance challenges and commitment to leadership skills at most levels before higher education. It is also about how the exercise of good leadership can ensure good use of resources for meaningful and good research. In many of Norway’s research council’s evaluations of the university sector, poor professional leadership has been pointed out. There are several reasons to point out. There is a great deal of ambiguity in the teaching world about what professional guidance should be. This is visible in the debate on selected/ added lead. For a long time it has been a practice that professional leadership is chosen from among them and thus acts as representatives and spokespersons for them. This model gives the leader confidence, but at the same time a limited deal space. After the quality reform, strategic and effective leadership was increased, and so it was opened so that leaders could be elected instead of being elected. It is a problem that it may be difficult to find people who are both skilled and good leaders. And since the professional salary of being a leader is small and the burden is the greater, the struggle for these positions at the level under the principal is rather small. Then what's else in society is that since the performance of these jobs is often low, it's not necessarily the best that becomes leaders. I think this is a bit of a backtrace because the Academy in the media has recently experienced a lot of negative mention of the working environment. In this perspective, of course, they are temporarily added to the large losses. And as he said, the scholarship student from Bergen who after many years at the university was pushed out: those who are lowest on the rank ladder can be compared to the one who comes last into the train cabin – one will never be entirely welcome. It is therefore good that the Council of State has grasped this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e170	There are many – or at least three – speakers who have now pointed out that the use of temporary posts is too large. Then it is good to ask the question whether there are any obvious reasons why the use of temporary jobs is large, and really what it is, and what it is caused by. Many of the previous speakers have noted that a good part of the management of higher education institutions in Norway has been selected. We should know that, all of us 169 who are represented in this house, that elected management also means that you are temporarily employed. We know that well. It's clear that reaches 17 pst. by the officials in this sector are temporarily employed, there is a figure so high that it must be possible to question whether or not there is anyone who abuses the freedom that has been granted. I have some challenges in understanding where the Right is in this picture, because this is about someone having used the academic freedom they've been granted, to some extent too much. The last time we discussed academic freedom in this room, the Right said that there should be no limit to it, strategic management from the big business and government's side, you would rather not have, or at least as much as possible. It is clear that at least one of the instruments needed to reduce the use of temporary employment is one. Another thing that I think the Council of State is going to bring with it is that ever-changing framework conditions and low base also make universities and colleges feel pressured to use temporary employment, even among civil servants. Both the inter-pellant and the Council of State have so far explained this with recruitment positions in scientific positions. We have a very good system in Norway, which means that both doctoral students and postdocs have a good safety net. But it does, of course, mean that they are registered as temporary employees in Norway. I'm glad they're employed. I am also very happy that many with doctoral degrees and many post-docs leave universities and colleges, because they end up in, which in any case the Progress Party is very concerned with, Norwegian business. So it's good that we have the system, that we have an education system that actually also delivers people with very high skills to Norwegian business. It was probably also the state councils inside. Internationalisation of higher education and research is widely supported in Stortinget. If one sends a professor or an amanuensis to study abroad – which I think we should better facilitate to happen – someone has to fill that position in Norway. Then a vicariate gets, which is a temporary position. In the case of projects, the Storting expert is demanding that the government implement it and that research project. When large-scale projects are carried out, new researchers are needed, and there is also a need to give the researchers who are already in higher education institutions in Norway a coherent time for research. When researchers who are employed in higher education and research are given more coherent time for research, which is also an important issue for the Research Association, the position used for teaching from before must be filled by a temporary worker. But that doesn't mean that the aeration that takes place at some universities in Norway is good. We've been served a number of examples of people getting hired at an institute, there's so long that they almost get hired, they're aired for three, four, five, six months, and then they're re-employed at the same institute. It is the use of temporary posts in higher education and research that we must first and foremost survive. That is why I am pleased that a job has been started, but it is too late, and I am glad that we have started a work on monitoring why we are using temporary jobs. I hope that the Stortinge relative to the 2011 budget will help universities plan more long-term and reduce the number of temporary posts on the administrative side. So I hope we can figure out how much of the research that actually abuses temporaryity, and which institutions use too much airing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e183	First, let me say to the latter that I believe that using the concept of ‘academic freedom’ about the freedom of the employer — in this case the employer in the university and higher education sector — in terms of employment policy is a strange comparison. But it has to be on the record of the previous speaker. The situation with regard to temporary employment within the academia is, in essence, alarming. The higher education sector is an important part of the public sector in Norway. In relation to the rest of our working life, we're dealing with an absolute mess here. It is a grievance for which the Council of State, at the same time from the Party SV, has a direct responsibility. When we know SV's desire to label private employers as brutal in terms of employment conditions of this type, the relationship becomes quite special. Temporary employment provides flexibility for an employer. I think we can confirm that. In an uncertain world, not least for private businesses, this may be necessary. However, the fact that uncertainty should be so much greater in the university and higher education sectors — which are thus part of the public sector — than in a competitive private business seems to be directly inexplicable and unlikely. In any case, it does not testify that the sector has confidence in the Government's long-term economic policy towards the sector. In my opinion, it is not such that it is primarily the Right who meets himself in the door, as perhaps both the Council of State and Tor Bremer were inside their posts. After all, it must be the government parties that get the door in the middle of the flint when they explain and defend – as they have done today – a widespread use of temporary employment in the university and higher education sectors. It is important for society that some of the best minds and talents can be recruited to scientific positions and to the field of research. How to cope when the uncertainty is so great that the recruiter, regardless of his talent, is probably not able to count on a regular job until he has passed 40 years, is a very big challenge. Today, it is also the case that the university and higher education sectors cannot compete either on wages or on important working conditions of the kind we are discussing here today. At my discretion, working in this sector is an important part of it, which nevertheless makes the sector attractive, the degree of freedom you have to follow your own ideas in your work, for example. as a scientist. Then we're talking about something that's been the topic here in the past, namely how far the field of research is free, to what extent we release the talents. Or is the field of research, as we see it from the Right, increasingly a directed field where the tasks are given in advance and where the degree of freedom is narrowed? When we got closer to perhaps some of what the representative Tord Lien was in his post, when he mentioned academic freedom. It is in many ways a different debate, but at least I feel that if we do not now do more to ensure the competitiveness, attractiveness of this sector, it will no longer be possible to recruit the best minds and the best talents of scientific positions and research positions in the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e196	The President would say that the term 'door in the middle of the flint' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e199	When talking about the fact that there are too many temporary jobs in the university and higher education sectors, it is also necessary to mention the practice of these jobs. As the previous representatives were involved, it is known that many units at the University of Oslo do not renew or extend the involvement of the workers concerned, or take a break between different types of temporary involvement in order to circumvent the four-year rule. In practice, this means that the State is countering its own laws. The point here is that this practice takes place more or less in secret, and one can simply claim that it is illegal. However, in line with legal theory and case-law, we believe that airing as defined in the context of a continuous service period, with the aim of avoiding the need to employ the person concerned, is illegal. In particular, small subjects and institutes are dependent on hourly teachers, and it is not always possible to replace the practice of aeration of temporary staff with other teachers during the period they are away, which goes beyond the quality and supply of the subjects. Hour teachers or completed doctoral students are kept far away in cases immediately because they are approaching the limit of maximum time on temporary employment, which becomes a problem for subjects with few scientific staff because they need to focus on the introduction subjects in order to increase the number of students. There's a point, perhaps especially at the humanistic institutes, that the number of students varies greatly from year to year, or from period to period. It'll always be like that on these subjects. This is important to remember, because a subject you want one year to put down due to low search, for example. The German study at the University of Oslo, can get a huge increase in interest and apply for the next year. If you have only temporary employees, the quality of the job offers will be affected. I personally know about students who may not be able to complete their education because the institute they attend does not have enough permanent professionals to get the necessary subjects started. This results in considerable unforeseeability and uncertainty both for students and for employees. We believe that this is immoral and a bad way of dealing with people and their career path.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e208	Having a job offers opportunities for income and a place of life. Having a job with a permanent job provides an opportunity to secure both their income and their place of stand. It also gives you the security and the ability to borrow for an apartment or a house, and it gives you a job protection. I can record that there is a large consensus today that there is too much use of temporary posts in the higher education and university sectors. I therefore think that the representative Harberg should be commended for having promoted this interpellation, no matter who gets a door where. I also think that the Council of State should be commended for having taken the roof, among other things. through the letters of assignment to the institutions requesting feedback on what each institution is doing to reduce the number of temporary staff. It is also good that a broad-based group is set up to agree on the figures, i.e. how many temporary employees there are, and find out why there is a difference between groups of employees and the different institutions. It will also be interesting to learn more about the practices of the different institutions. If we are to be able to recruit the best minds for Norwegian research, we must be able to offer good employment. Being temporarily employed for a period is not unknown in Norway, and so it must be in the future, I think. However, the average age of permanent employment should not be well over 40 years. Then the sector and we contribute to playing the sector beyond the side line. We can't afford that. I think many of us know about cases where temporary employment makes the employee naturally feel a lot of uncertainty, sneezes at other jobs – a heifer because one wants to have this job, but dares, for example. not to raise loans, etc. I believe that the Council of State has addressed the issue in a good way, and I look forward to hearing more about the outcome of the working group. However, there is also a great deal for the institutions to tackle this and do something about it. I think there are good opportunities to think new and gain experience both from their own institutions – best practice, as it is called – and from other research institutions. I look forward to hearing more about the results of the work that has now been started.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e220	I'm almost touched by Right's strong commitment to reducing the use of temporary employment in the university and higher education sectors. I very much hope that they will transfer this commitment also to other sectors, all the time they have programmed a very positive view of temporary employment in general. The interpellant referred in his statement, quite correctly, to changes in the Working Environment Act that were ready for entry into force in 2006, but he did not mention the whole of the changes that were on the table then. Among other things, they wanted to do so. the reduction of job protection, the increased use of overtime without overtime payments, and access to temporary employment in general would be increased. Right should not be surprised that we and our government did not allow this. We want the least to be exposed to the uncertainty of temporary employment, which is also very much appreciated by the employees. This history makes Right-wing reasoning about the use of temporary employment in the university and higher education sectors a little strange, but very enjoyable. Another history, which is also worth remembering in this debate, is that there was a debate on changes in the law of higher education in this Chamber in 2006. At that time, the situation was much more acute than it is now, and access to temporary posts or so-called project positions was discussed. Then the Right and Advance Party protested quite loudly. Now the pipe has received a different sound, at least for the Right, without explaining what has changed since the last time. If Norway is to be able to recruit the best minds of both sexes, the university and higher education sectors must offer jobs that make the sector more competitive. Therefore, the process of reducing the use of temporary employment initiated by the Council of State, by also discussing it with the parties, is very good, both for the sector in general and for women in particular. According to Benedicte Løseth, the head of the database on right-wing education, there is a greater proportion of female scientific staff in temporary jobs, while men are more often given permanent jobs. Unfortunately, this is part of a pattern in which qualified women feel that men are more easily available in scientific positions, more easily get top jobs and more easily get a regular job. The reduction of temporary employment in the higher education sector is therefore also a very important equality project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e233	I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate. It is good to note that despite different mentions of doors and slightly different rhetoric about some of the problems, there is a common understanding. I also feel that there is clarity about the types of temporary jobs that we should address. I just want to comment on cards, because there's no reason to repeat the points that many people have made. But there have been some questions about the right and temporary jobs. What we are talking about in this case is the abuse of the possibility of temporary jobs. I don't think anyone has ever realized that the Right will not intervene in illegalities and abuse. So there's this balance between use and abuse we call out a warning about here, and I believe that everyone in the hall also joins. I look forward to the further work. It must be good for the Council of State to know that there is a cross-political consensus to address the problem, get on the table what it takes to solve it, and thus do the concrete steps to reduce the number and not least get done for those who go for a long time in temporary jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e240	I also thank you for the debate and for the interpellation. I have a strong feeling that the Stortinge provides support for the important process that I have now taken the initiative, which is both about clarifying the actual situation within this part of the world of work and the individual groups, and which should be of good help in delivering sensible measures. Some of the history behind this, and a little bit of the political inequality, is that the Right in its time wanted to abolish the Civil Service Act and make some manoeuvres when it applied, among other things. with the paragraph that was lifted when the red-green government came to power. It reflects the inequality you have purely politically and ideologically in this relationship. But I am now very confident and positive that the Right, along with me, wants to do something about what is not a desired temporaryity at universities and colleges. When Warloe says I'm explaining and defending temporaryity, and I'm making it like I'm defending the numbers that originally came here, that it's over 40 pst. temporary staff at universities and colleges are, to put it mildly, a great exaggeration. I will in no way defend what is not wanted, but I will acknowledge – along with the Right, I believe, and everyone else who has spoken here – that there is a need for some degree of temporaryity in recruitment positions, and not only necessary, but also desirable. Then Hadia Tajik has a very good point about equality. I think she has good coverage to say that temporaryity in unwanted form most often affects women, for many different reasons, so there is also an important perspective in the matter. I believe that, at this stage, it may be most important – while getting the figures – to change the culture of temporary employment through the instruments we already have, for example. management dialogue, e.g. different degrees of motivation for the management of universities and colleges. In the work on the report of the Action Room Working Party, the social partners declared their willingness to reduce the use of temporary employment. That's what I want to take seriously. That is why the parties are part of the working group I have set up, and that is why I am also open so that, if necessary, we can discuss regulatory and legislative changes. But before we get that far, we can do a lot. And the process that's going on right now, I think is positive for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e255	Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e271	The President knows that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has come to the house, but the President will ask for a short break until the Minister of Foreign Affairs has got up the stairs, so that the interpellation debate can begin. – Then Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre has come to the Chamber, and the President gives the floor to the inter-pellant, Svein Roald Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e276	Since the Non-Proliferation Agreement was concluded over 40 years ago, three countries, India, Israel and Pakistan, have acquired nuclear weapons. Now there is a great and justified fear that Iran and North Korea too are developing nuclear weapons capabilities. So the non-proliferation agreement cannot prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. On the other hand, nearly 190 countries have joined the agreement. At least 40 of these have the capacity to develop such weapons, but have renounced them. It's positive. The revision of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, NPT, in 2000, created expectations. For the first time in 15 years there was an agreement on a final document. The consensus included a number of practical steps that pointed to the objective of a world without nuclear weapons. The terrorist attack in New York in the autumn of 2001 was also an impact on nuclear disarmament. The 2000 Final Document was not followed up and the 2005 Conference of Supervisors ended without results. After three decades of progress and hope that the armament spiral of the cold days of war could be turned upside down, the first decade of the new century became the lost decade of disarmament. The 1970s gave us the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the first agreement to reduce strategic arsenals, SALT I. The 1980s, which ended with the fall of the Berlin Wall, meant the end of the cold war. The 1990s gave us the probation agreement, which unfortunately has not yet entered into force, because not enough countries have signed, among them the United States. We got START II, the Landmine Convention and a halve of military material in Europe. We received one encouragement at the end of the lost decade behind us: the Convention on the Prohibition of Class Weapons, where not least Norway was a driving force. We now have a chance to blow new dynamics into the disarmament work. It is important for the credibility of the Treaty that results be achieved. The United States has a new president, who has turned the vision of a world without nuclear weapons into his. His new nuclear strategy will reduce and limit the deterrent role of nuclear weapons in security policy. The nuclear safety summit in Washington on Monday and Tuesday focused on securing the world's uranium and plutonium stocks. One concrete result was Ukraine’s declaration that it would leave its high-rich uranium stocks to Russia and the United States by 2012. The new Start II agreement between the United States and Russia, which reduces the number of weapons deployed by one third, is also a step in the right direction. There's no doubt that there's the atomic power that sits with the key. By means of the Non-proliferation Agreement, they have undertaken to equip themselves, with the full elimination of the weapons arsenal as a goal. They have to live by it, because what moral right can countries with nuclear weapons themselves demand of others to give up, when they themselves demonstrate so clearly how important these weapons are to them? That's what they do when they're still sitting with meaningless large arsenals, lots of weapons that can never be used if the madness is first released, simply because everything will be over before the next wave can be sent off by the farm. What, then, can Norway, like a country without nuclear weapons, contribute? One important arena is the work on NATO's new strategic concept. The Workers' Party has programmed to work for a world free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction and to reduce the role of nuclear weapons, through a successful Conference of Supervisors this year. This is also part of the Government's platform. The party programme and the government platform also oblige us to initiate a discussion in NATO on how the alliance can contribute to the achievement of the goal of a nuclear-free world through commitments covering all countries. Norway must be a strong voice to strengthen the alliance’s work on disarmament, especially by nuclear weapons. This needs to be stressed more strongly in the strategy for the next 10 years, as also mentioned in the address to NATO Secretary-General in front of the forthcoming Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Tallinn. When President Obama shares our vision of a world without nuclear weapons, we have an important ally to give NATO's strategy concrete content that can create new dynamics in disarmament, broadly speaking. One measure should be for NATO to refrain from the first use of nuclear weapons. Fortunately, the number of nuclear weapons in Europe has now fallen sharply. But we should ask ourselves whether the tactical nuclear weapons that are still deployed in our part of the world are really a contribution to our security, or whether they can work the other way around. The threshold for using less nuclear weapons in a given situation will be lower than for strategic ones. I believe that NATO should take the initiative towards Russia in an agreement that involves the removal of all tactical nuclear weapons deployed in Europe east of Urals. 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, and almost ten years after the countries of Eastern Europe joined both the EU and NATO, it must be possible to raise the question: Is it not time to put down the nuclear umbrella across our continent? Would it not contribute to providing the partnership agreement with Russia with a new and reliable vitality? The time should be overdue to put the cold war thinking behind us, over 20 years after it actually ended, that November evening in Berlin. The driving force of those countries that have acquired nuclear weapons after the non-proliferation agreement entered into force in 1970 is regional conflicts and a deep-seated distrust between neighbours. This, together with power demonstrations and ambitions, is also the driving force behind Iran's and North Korea's nuclear programmes. For this reason, resolving regional conflicts is perhaps the most important thing that can be done so that several countries do not see themselves fit to acquire nuclear weapons. This perspective should be an additional driving force in the efforts to resolve such conflicts, especially in the Middle East. A third perspective that may also be significant is that countries that are now emerging as key actors by virtue of their economic strength are given their legal place in the international architecture of organisations and bodies. One such example is the UN Security Council, where nuclear weapons were the access key to secure solid space. We must not risk that some countries see themselves profiting from the acquisition of nuclear weapons in order to gain their rightful place in international bodies simply because we are not willing to review the conditions of power in the light of the world that is now developing, with an increasing number of influential countries that will demand their rightful place, where regional and international decisions are to be taken. The ambitions of this year’s review conference must be to reach agreement on measures that can make the NPT a powerful tool to prevent more countries from benefiting from nuclear weapons – agreement that those who have nuclear weapons are reducing their arsenals, declare first use as a threat and guarantee that they will not use nuclear weapons against countries that do not have them. If we succeed in that, we'll set out on a nuclear-free world. It will be a world that will be safer for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e314	Thanks to the interpellant for taking up an important and not least topical theme. We're inside what might be called an 'international nuclear week', according to media commentators. A month ago, we marked the 40th anniversary of the NPT Non-Proliferation Agreement. When the agreement was negotiated, there was a fear of a development in which dozens of countries would acquire nuclear weapons. Thanks to the NPT, it didn't work that way. But we see today that the NPT has come under great pressure. This is due to the uncertainty about the development of Iran, the nuclear programme for North Korea and the inherent tension in the agreement itself. There is considerable disagreement on how to pass on the NPT process. The two-week oversight conference in New York will have a major impact on the viability of the NPT in the coming years. As the inter-pellant said, the NPT was an historic compromise. The countries that did not have nuclear weapons agreed to disarm such weapons against access to nuclear power and assuming that the nuclear weapons states showed a willingness to calm down. The NPT was a product of the cold war. The disarmament obligations of the NPT were formulated so that they could be interpreted in several ways. Some understood the agreement so that nuclear weapons were to be abolished only when it came to general and full disarmament in the world. But by far the majority thought that NPT’s disarmament obligations are on their own and must be implemented independently of other arms control efforts. In my view, this interpretation emerged when the NPT was extended indefinitely in 1995. The 2000 Supervisory Conference made even more clear the obligations of nuclear weapons States to work towards the abolition of their arsenals. However, progress has been rather in the opposite direction over the last nine years. Some of the nuclear powers have sought to distance themselves from their obligations. At the same time, it has not been possible to make use of among countries the non-aligned movement of measures that close the loopholes of the international non-proliferation regime. We've got a growing polarization. The 2005 NPT Supervisory Conference failed, nor was it possible — despite the vigorous efforts of some countries, including Norway — to get the United Nations Summit to agree on anything in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. President Obama has given a welcome turn of line in American thought. He is clear in his vision and in his desire for a safer world without nuclear weapons, which is also reflected in the new «Nuclear Posture Review». The President has been the driver of a new agreement with Russia on the interception of strategic nuclear weapons, and it is therefore gratifying that the follow-up agreement to START was signed in Prague last week — the first real nuclear disarmament agreement of 19 years. The summit that Obama held in the UN Security Council last autumn put nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation on the agenda. And this week, together with 46 other heads of state, he held a summit on nuclear safety in Washington. Obama has stressed that the NPT Conference of Supervisors has an outcome that re-establishes the basic understanding, that disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use are interrelated. We fully support this from the Norwegian side, which the Prime Minister made clear in Washington last Tuesday. However, it will not be easy to reach an agreement on how to strengthen the NPT in order to meet today's security challenges. The Iran question may, for example: in itself overturned the entire Conference of Supervisors. The same is true of the Middle East problem. It will also be difficult to gather on a package of measures that everyone sees as balanced and feasible. Norway’s strategy is to stick to a high level of ambition and to a policy that can bring together broad ups and downs, but, well, brand, a policy that actually leads towards a world without nuclear weapons. This is the overall objective, not the Conference of Supervisors itself. It is clearly not desirable that regional crises, mistrust or the need to achieve national performance continue to be supported by weapons that threaten the entire globe with extinction. If we are to achieve this goal, and if we are to achieve a policy that leads to this, we must play with all the good forces: with our NATO allies, with countries in other regions and not least with civil society. From the NPT Monitoring Conference, we want a final document that reconstructs and strengthens the leadership adopted in 1995 and 2000. What's our goal? Firstly, the Conference of Supervisors should clearly establish the political objective of a safer world without nuclear weapons and adopt a concrete and committed work programme for the next supervisory period. It must reflect the three pillars of the NPT: disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use. Secondly, the new START agreement between the United States and Russia must be seen as a starting point for a broader arms-reduction process, which should include other nuclear and all weapon categories, as President Obama also called for in Prague last week. Thirdly, we need a new give to get the trial plan to come into force. Congress elections in the United States for the autumn will be central to the possibilities of American ratification. But neither should we forget that the agreement also requires the ratification of countries such as China, Iran, Egypt, Israel, India, Indonesia, Pakistan and North Korea in order to enter into force. Fourthly, we need to get started and conclude the negotiations which prohibit the manufacture of fissile materials for weapons purposes. We've been waiting for over 12 years for this to happen. Such an agreement must prohibit future production, but also set in motion a reduction in the huge stocks of fissile materials existing in the United States and Russia. A world without nuclear weapons requires the stocks of fissile material to be brought under full control. Fifth, the NPT Supervisory Conference should send a clear signal to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in security policy. I am pleased that President Obama's 'Nuclear Posture Review' is so clear on this very point. This must in turn have an impact on doctrines, not least in the context of NATO. I myself have now raised such a debate in NATO with my colleagues from Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Germany. We have asked that the nuclear policy be put on the agenda of the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Tallinn next week, which has been well received by NATO's Secretary-General. In the work on NATO's new strategic concept, we need to be ready to engage in a thorough discussion on the usefulness of NATO's nuclear deterrent strategy and on its impact on non-proliferation. It is important here to stress that the NPT’s obligations do not affect the actual basis of NATO as an alliance. Even in a world without nuclear weapons, the right to defend itself will stand, as it is enshrined in the UN Charter. Then we have to take new, thoughtful initiatives: This week, when Norway and Poland have presented to the Secretary-General of NATO and the other Member States an initiative on the related nuclear weapons in Europe, there is a common desire to ensure the security of allies by removing weapon categories that create specific uncertainties and predictability. In this initiative, we propose to facilitate the removal of US and Russian cortical nuclear weapons through transparency measures, confidence-building measures and mutual and balanced reductions, as the representative Hansen also pointed out. I hope this initiative can help build bridges in NATO and to draw up a realistic plan that can both bring clarity around the corroborating nuclear weapons and be a scheme to get them removed. Another aspect of reducing the role of nuclear weapons in security policy is concrete restrictive measures such as negative security guarantees, i.e.: declarations by the nuclear powers that they will not threaten or use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear States and measures such as regional nuclear-free zones. It is important to ensure that such measures are understood as contributing to the objective of the abolition of nuclear weapons and not as actions justifying their retention. The same applies to non-first-use doctrines and not least to a reduction in the level of preparedness of outsourced weapons. A credible non-proliferation regime will be crucial for a world without nuclear weapons. It also requires all countries to accept in-depth IAEA inspections and to have in place the necessary laws to protect sensitive materials. This should become an important obligation in the NPT. The work on resolving nuclear disputes with Iran and North Korea must also be intensified. Many in Norway do not like nuclear power, but we must realistically expect that the use of nuclear power as a source of energy will increase in the coming years. The developing countries of the NPT are entitled to peaceful use. The challenge is therefore to ensure that the use is as safe as possible. A step here will be to develop international cooperation mechanisms for civil fuel production and waste management. The IAEA will be central here, and we therefore want a strong and respected IAEA. The Prime Minister contributed new Norwegian financial support commitments to the IAEA at the meeting in Washington last Tuesday. The Middle East question will be followed up in the forthcoming surveillance period. In 1995, the NPT decided to work to establish a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in this region. This was a prerequisite for Arab countries to agree to extend the agreement indefinitely. There are clear expectations from these countries that the Conference of Supervisors will take this issue seriously. Let me summarise this important issue now, in the run-up to the Conference of Supervisors: Norway is driving NATO to reduce the emphasis on nuclear weapons in the security policy. Together with like-minded allies, we have provided employment papers confirming that NATO countries other than Norway are also fully committed to the goal of the abolition of nuclear weapons. This is important for building bridges to other NPT groupings. Norway has solid experience in such cross-regional cooperation, which my predecessors also work actively with. Norway has strengthened its cooperation with countries such as Indonesia, Chile and South Africa, which took part in this seven-country initiative launched between the unsuccessful Conference of Supervisors and the UN Summit in 2005. Let me also add that Secretary of State Clinton and I agree to strengthen Norwegian American cooperation in the NPT. As a final point, I would like to highlight the importance of engaging the voluntary organisations and of being able to draw on the competence and network of civil society. Great competence in the disarmament field is also here in Stortinget. Together with No to the Atomic Arms and the Atlantic Committee, we propose that a broad Norwegian NGO delegation travel to New York in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e388	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, and for confirming that the Government has a high level of ambition in this important field. I agree, of course, with the emphasis that we have to try, we have to stand for a policy that can bring together broad ups and downs. In this area, symbolism policy is very little helpful. I believe that the objectives that the Foreign Minister drew up will have broad support here in the Chamber. I hope the further debate will confirm that. Let me just comment on a couple of things that the Foreign Minister touched on, how to handle fissile material and ban the manufacture of such material for nuclear weapons purposes. It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, that the use of nuclear power will increase, regardless of what we here in Norway might or might not be alike. Countries with tens, hundreds of millions of poor people need energy to evolve, and many will draw it from nuclear power. There are also other types of peaceful uses for which fissile materials are used. Therefore, it will be an important step to prevent the misuse and spread of uranium enrichment and the handling of fissile material may come under international control. We should therefore also consider whether there is a basis for blowing the life of the previous IAEA Chief ElBaradei's idea of an international fuel bank. The idea sprang out of concern about Iran's nuclear programme when this was first discovered. Norway has granted money for this work. I visited Vienna last week and had a meeting with the IAEA, which told me there were twelve different proposals, one of them from the nuclear industry itself. But this work is unfortunately on the ice. One of the reasons it's on ice is the strong resistance it aroused when the previous president of the United States suggested banning new countries from enriching uranium, and that it should be reserved for those who already did. Of course, it caused reactions and caused a great deal of damage for the further work. The idea of having uranium enrichment for peaceful purposes, both nuclear power and other uses, under international control is very good if combined with a guarantee of delivery for countries that use it for civil purposes. It would also be an important measure to control the fact that fissile material is under international and precautionary control and to prevent its being diverted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e403	I can join in all that Mr Hansen said, and I look forward to the fact that in this debate we can have this question addressed from several points of view. As the representative was involved, Norway was inconvenient to contribute resources to the project with such a bank — and it is not a contribution Norway has made just to drop it there and then. We're going to follow it up. It is clear, as the representative Hansen also experienced in Vienna, that steps have been taken from getting such a concept up to stand, mobilizing the resources and getting it to come into force, is a demanding piece of work, because we quickly get into the political, mined area with strong views on many sides. It brings me to the second point on which the representative was concerned, namely that symbol politics is not enough. There can be no disagreement when a driver is involved in politics and wants to see results. But symbol policy is important in this matter, because doctrines and questions about first use and one about a category of weapons that is closest to each. the definition is not to be used, is much about symbolism, about emphasis and about what is created by political and – what we say – symbolic framework conditions. That's why it's really so important when President Obama last week made it clear that it's not appropriate for the United States to use nuclear weapons against countries that don't have nuclear weapons. issuing the type of security guarantees helps to narrow down the scope so that nuclear weapons can actually be used. Then it is important to spend time on – and perhaps we will also address this in the debate – the significant challenge of dissemination. And it became quite encouraging – from many teams in Washington earlier this week told us about the danger of such material drifting away. That danger has passed as long as it has been nuclear weapons, knowledge and technology, but it is of many considered greater now, because the groups that can be said to have interests are better organized, better screwed up to also be able to apply it. The important thing to get back to then is the three pillars of the NPT, which are in a balanced relationship with each other, namely that non-proliferation work is inhibited if there is no progress on the disarmament side. Therefore, it is hoped that what happened last week in Praha will contribute to increased pressure on anti-proliferation measures. What will at least be Norway's position when we are going to contribute as much as we can to the diplomacy needed to make the NPT succeed is to make the different groups see the importance of progress in all three parts of this equivalent NPT regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e414	Fortunately, we live in a peaceful corner of the world, but still in a world and in a time that is also marked by tensions, wars and conflicts of a different kind, and still we are reminded that neither nuclear weapons disappeared with the cold war. When the Nobel Peace Prize was presented on 10 December last year, the Committee paid special attention to President Barack Obama's vision and work for a world without nuclear weapons. On Thursday last week we could also see, at least on TV, that the Peace Prize winner, together with the leader of Russia, signed a new agreement to reduce such weapons. This action should be an important signal to the Member States which are now to participate in the forthcoming non-proliferation supervisory conference. When the established nuclear powers show a willingness to disarm, it must be able to be confident that it will inspire others to both see and use the ability to disarm and to remove the arms race. The important Non-Proliferation Agreement, which was concluded in 1968, was the result of a real concern about the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Despite the lack of the agreement and the fact that some countries have opted to stand outside, this agreement is the international political instrument we per. Today we have for regulation, disarmament and a less dangerous world. It is also obvious that this agreement has contributed to an important and ongoing focus on the serious threat posed by nuclear weapons. Many thousand nuclear fighters have been destroyed, and weapons stocks across large parts of the world have been destroyed. The alternative, i.e. no agreement, would have meant both increased risk of dispersal and increased upgrading. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the interpellant Svein Roar Hansen for the initiative to put the important supervisory conference on the agenda in the Stortinget today. It is a fact that terrorist groups are seeking to acquire nuclear weapons. We know that North Korea is on another track, and there is also considerable uncertainty about Iran's nuclear programme. This alone shows that the need for control and follow-up to the agreement is of the utmost importance, i.e. individually and in sum. In Norway, we have every interest in supporting the Non-Proliferation Agreement, focusing on the effective implementation of the content of the Agreement, and also supporting the commitment to make demands on the nations that have opted out of this cooperation. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs today stressed that the strategy must be to bring together a broad consensus on a policy that actually leads to a world without nuclear weapons, and that the goal of the forthcoming International Conference must be a final document with concrete, committed initiatives relating to disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use. The fact that the Prime Minister this week attended the nuclear security summit in Washington further underlines the commitment of the Norwegian government. Similarly, the Government's signal of increased financial support for nuclear safety work, especially in developing countries. The International Atomic Energy Agency also has a very important task of strengthening its efforts to combat nuclear terrorism. The Labour Party regards a strong international legal society as the best guarantee of security. We will work for safety at the lowest possible level of armor. Combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, organised crime, terrorism and protecting our national resources require international cooperation. It was wise people who were behind the Non-Proliferation Agreement in their time. Now wise decision-makers are also needed at the next month’s supervisory conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e431	After half an hour's debate, with five contributions from representatives who all belong to the Workers' Party, I have not been able to identify more than one topic in which it was a bit tense, and that is the question of whether symbolism policy is good or not good. I have decided not to take part in that debate, but I will state that, in the field of disarmament and control of weapon types, realism and a sobering attitude are important. We all want to rust down and make the world a safer place to be, so that we can use the resources on welfare and wealth. NATO has ensured our security and peace in Europe for 60 years. A prerequisite for NATO being able to play that role has been that NATO has had a credible defense and has been equipped with effective weapons. We see new trends in the world – nuclear powers like Iran, North Korea and Pakistan, to mention some, and some alliances. Now, when we see that both Russia and Iran each assist Venezuela in their own way, we sense a Venezuelan thought that one wants to build Venezuela up to a military power in Latin America. President Obama recently expressed a real fear that another actor, Al Qaida, could obtain usable nuclear weapons and have great willingness to use them. Therefore, it is important to establish that disarmament is good, but unilateral disarmament can be a serious safety risk. Today’s newspaper reports project cooperation between Norway and Russia, which was launched in 1993, and which Norway has so far used for some time. Three billion dollars. A little over $1 billion has gone to cleaning up Russian nuclear waste. So Russia uses, you might say, more and more on military armaments. They make Norway pay for a job that they would otherwise have had to do themselves. The ‘Jurij Dolgorukij’ nuclear submarine, which was launched in 2009, is a clear example of Russia’s use of resources that have been somehow released by Norway’s taking on an important job. Therefore, it is important that the Government now undertakes a review of the use of the project funds and submits this to the Stortinget, so that we can get an analysis of whether the use of the project funds has actually served the purpose for which the project funds were intended. Another example: African countries use about 2.3 pst. of its gross national income for military purposes. This is far above the average among other countries in the world. A study in the assistance of Fredrik Ericsson at the International Policy Network shows that aid from rich countries makes it possible for African countries to spend more on arms and national defence. Therefore, it is important that Norway has a critical position so that we can follow up the beneficiary countries and demand that they allow assistance to work to achieve the objectives for which it is intended. So Norway contributed 20 million last week. kr. to the IAEA for nuclear safety work in developing countries. I think it would be wise for the Government here too to follow up the use of these funds, so that the funds allocated do not come as a resource instead of appropriations that would otherwise have been used to achieve the same objectives. With regard to the nuclear strategy and the new strategic concept of NATO, I think it is useful to refer to the former Secretary of Defense of the United Kingdom, Geoff Hoon, with whom the Foreign Affairs Committee recently met. He was quite clear that in a world where new nuclear powers – and he mentioned Iran and North Korea – appear, it may not be wise for us other unilaterally to calm down. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government to have a realistic and sober view of the work in the future and at the Supervisory Conference in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e448	Let me first praise the interpellant to travel an important theme. I would also like to commend the interpellant for what I think is a realistic and factual contribution to the debate. The same applies to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This has been a matter of unanimity in Stortinget. Disarmament and non-proliferation were debated by 2008 at the latest on the basis of a major communication. That was then cross-political agreement relating to all the three main boards to which the Government made provision. That's good, and it helps, I think, to increase the Norwegian voice and permeability. At the same time, this is a complex matter, and you have to have a high degree of realism in what you do, and not believe that there are simple solutions and symbolism alone that get us to the goal. But let me also say that I fully agree with the fact that symbols are very important, and the symbols you have now seen from President Obama's side are just part of the positive background picture on which you approach the Supervisory Conference. The non-proliferation agreement has several major challenges. The agreement has a significant degree of tension internally. There are four new nuclear powers that have emerged – it has been raised beyond doubt that North Korea has become a nuclear power – and the question has been raised with Iran. But where I believe that the debate has been so far absent, and what we haven't spent enough time on, has just been terrorist groups and smaller groups' search for nuclear weapons or fissile material that can be used for dirty bombs and other terrorist attack tools. Obama was very clear in her speech last week on how important it is to have a global international community that is going to work actively to deny these types of groups, like Al Qaida, access to nuclear material. I also want to include India in the debate. You, too, have taken up the question of India's alienation to the NPT, and not least the arms race with Pakistan. At the same time, it has been seen that India has privileged access to the Nuclear Suppliers Group. I will also ask questions in this debate on the precedent of that very thing. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has responded to this earlier, but I do not think the answers have been satisfactory, either from the United States or from other proponents of India's entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group. Now, where we really need a positive starting point, we see that we finally got it. The background picture in relation to the May supervisory conference gives us every opportunity – and at least better opportunities than what we have had in the last decade – to get ahead in an agreement. There is a START II agreement between the United States and Russia on a reduction in the number of strategic weapons that has been implemented, and last week a very positive meeting was held in Washington, which was, incidentally, the largest assembly of Heads of State in Washington, D.C. since the conference that prepared the UN. This meeting was particularly important, precisely because Obama highlighted the threat from non-governmental actors that can access – as I mentioned – nuclear material. Let me also say that the key to successful disarmament, either in the NPT context, in a NATO–Russia context or in other forums, lies in a stepwise mutually committed and verifiable development. Visions are important, but at the same time we have to relate to a world that is far from perfect. If you want to understand Obama's speech in Praha a year ago, it's not just the title of a nuclear-free world that's important, but all the difficult little steps that have to be taken all the way, because the agreement from the Norwegian side is that we have to seek an active role in international disarmament. These complex issues cannot and must not be simplified, and we must work actively, for example. in the work on NATO's new strategic concept. And atoms can't actually be decomposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e465	A world without nuclear weapons is possible, and it has been a goal for SV throughout the history of SV. We are therefore very pleased that we can play our role in achieving such an ambitious goal, both through the Declaration of Government and through the active policy of the Government of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm not saying that because we think it's simple or easy, but because it's absolutely necessary. Nuclear weapons, as many have said here, are so dangerous in their nature that they are capable of killing hundreds of millions of people, changing the climate of the earth, making it uninhabitable – simply making the earth uninhabitable – not just here and now, but too long. That's why this fight is one of the most important things we can do. The Foreign Minister described that there has been a kind of ice age in the fight against nuclear weapons for a long time, but now it seems that several of the world's leaders share the vision of a nuclear-free world. That is why I am very pleased with the approach of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, where he shows that he understands the symbolic power of the world's leaders actually taking the order of a world without nuclear weapons. Then, of course, when it comes to working on this, it is necessary to ensure the trust between the world's countries that is needed to make such agreements work in practice. Then the input that has come from more here, which is about the role of major developing countries in international policy in very many areas, is important. We have also seen, when negotiating climate agreements, how important it is to understand the symbolism that some countries feel less than others and are not valued in the same way as others. It depends on, you have to make such agreements work. The high level of ambition is important, and it is important, as has also been said, that this matter is both about non-proliferation and about disarmament – both parts must be in place. Then both the Council of State and several representatives have been concerned with the requirements that we have to make to the Conference of Supervisors. I would first like to draw a little attention to the Soria Moria statement, the Government's platform, which says that we should also work concretely internally in NATO, to get NATO to act and to participate in the realization of the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. The government has taken affordable initiatives and works internally in NATO on the matter. It's very important because NATO is of course a very large military power, but also for the trust that we're talking about, between other major powers that can see other interests in this. The fact that we are now about to start that work and look at the role of nuclear weapons also internally in NATO's strategy is very important, because it has to be linked. That the Conference of Supervisors is very important is correct. The Soria Moria statement also states that if this fails, we must assess our own convention against nuclear weapons. It's also very important. Finally, I want to dedicate this to fissile material that can be balanced, a little attention. There have been several representatives in there, and that is a very important matter, especially when we talk about this in relation to terror. The initiatives taken to an international fuel bank are important, but as I understand the work now, it is very much about the material you know where. The question is whether you know where everything is and how it is stored and how it is handled in different countries. A theme that I believe also needs to be addressed at conferences and into international agreements is not only how to produce and store this, but how to try to search for the material that is currently on the way. Then it may not be that terrorist groups are able to create nuclear weapons that are the most dangerous, but that you can use this fissile radioactive material in terrorist acts, which are, of course, likely to create very great fear and cause very great real damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e480	The government is making a very solid effort in the field of nuclear disarmament, which is also being noted internationally. I would like to thank Svein Roald Hansen for raising this important theme here from the Stockholm pulpit. I am sure that during the Conference of Supervisors Norway will do its utmost to ensure that the Conference has a positive outcome in terms of non-proliferation, disarmament and access to civil nuclear technology. It is a matter of building confidence, i.e. following the line that the former leader of the International Atomic Energy Agency Mohamed ElBaradei followed in the negotiations with Iran. The central party believes that trustbuilding measures require more of Norway than just having an impact from the non-proliferation supervisory conference. We cannot settle for the fact that the START negotiations have so far not resulted in a plan to abolish all nuclear weapons within, for example. 2020. The Central Party wants the Government to focus on the work of global conventional disarmament and a multilateral Asian, European and Atlantic security agreement. This is precisely the objective of the 20 Norwegian NGO delegates who will attend the non-proliferation supervisory conference in New York in May 2010. The transformation of the global military-industrial complex requires the scrapping of all operational tactical and strategic nuclear weapons. This supports the UN Security Council's objective of global zero for nuclear weapons. The central party believes, strategically, that in order to get non-nuclear acts, like, for example. Iran, along the challenging path to a world non-nuclear society, must extend the Non-Proliferation Agreement to include a binding Treaty phase-out of nuclear weapons by countries that have them. Non-nuclear acts must also be members. It is only through such a grand bargain agreement that the international community can have the hope of reaching an international consensus on the nuclear-free future for future generations. The Central Party hopes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will consider addressing the proposal for such a multilateral international agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e498	Work to reduce the threat from nuclear weapons is important and has been going on for many years, and there is still a lot of work to be done. Let me therefore thank the representative Svein Roald Hansen for taking the initiative for this interpellation debate. The exposure to our long-term goal of a nuclear-free world was also the reason and the background for the Christian People's Party taking up the need for nuclear disarmament in an interpellation on the work of revising NATO's nuclear-weapon strategy on 2 April last year. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' positive response now and today shows that we have a common commitment to non-proliferation and disarmament in respect of nuclear weapons. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that there is a broad upturn, a cross-political consensus, on Norwegian nuclear policy. Several mentioned the Non-Proliferation Agreement, concluded in 1968, which entered into force two years later. When it was extended in 1995, we saw that the countries that did not have nuclear weapons and committed themselves to refrain from it required the nuclear weapons states to confirm the disarmament obligations of the agreement. This double obligation, both on non-proliferation and on disarmament of existing nuclear weapons, is crucial for the future of the agreement. Non-proliferation, disarmament, access to civil nuclear technology and verification of compliance together constitute the pillars of this Agreement. It will be a derailment to make this an aid debate. It may be felt that assistance can be the key to such a debate, but there is still a derailment in the debate that is now taking place. Assistance may be a key to peace, but it is not at all a basis for saying that aid belongs to a threat assessment around nuclear weapons. So it's going to be a weird mix. Developments since 1995 have been disappointing. The Supervisory Conference — several have been involved in it — was a failure. No agreement was reached on anything, nor on a final report from the conference, so it was not even formally registered that North Korea had signed up. As long as nuclear powers do not make progress in the commitments to build up their nuclear weapons stocks, it weakens the Non-Proliferation Agreement, and it is used by some states almost as a legitimacy to allow more people to acquire nuclear weapons. It's a life-threatening trend. It is also Christian People's Party's view that the signals from the President of the United States and the action we have seen from the Peace Prize winner have created a new international climate. What has happened between the United States and Russia is very positive. As President Obama said at the time of the signing of the agreement, this is an important milestone, but only one step on a longer journey towards full resolution of the nuclear weapons. In my view, this disarmament breakthrough is a crucial contribution to the success of the Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference as well as in 2005. Equally positive is unfortunately not the signal of France's president, Sarkozy, now has given that they will not reduce their arsenals. It turns out that those who first belong to the Atomic Arms Club don't go out of it easily. The challenges remain high in order to reduce and eliminate nuclear weapons in the long term. But for our common security, the dual objective, non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament is crucial. Norway should not only support processes but should also be an active and constructive driver. The Norwegian-Polish initiative to reduce the number of cortical tactical nuclear weapons deployed in Europe sees me as a new step in this work. This initiative is based on a step-by-step balanced approach, where transparency measures provide the basis for reductions in nuclear stockpiles. It is an attitude that we can also build on in a broader effort for disarmament in the area of weapons of mass destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e521	Let me first commend the interpellant for continuing an important tradition in this hall, namely an interpellation debate in front of important crossroads in the work on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. So this time it's the surveillance conference that starts in New York at the beginning of May. As the Non-Proliferation Agreement was extended indefinitely in 1995, the requirements for the supervisory process were reinforced by a set of ‘Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament’. Despite this, which has also been emphasised by many, several important processes have stopped up through the 1990s. It was the 2000 Supervisory Conference that was really the big breakthrough, with 13 adopted so-called steps forward. Therefore, the 2005 Conference of Supervisors was so incredibly disappointing because it ended up in total failure. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, it was also not possible to get the UN Summit in August of the same year to agree on anything in the field of non-proliferation. They did a lot of other good, but not on nuclear weapons. I was the case rapporteur a year and a half ago for the disarmament report, and it was a unanimous committee that advocated the elimination of all nuclear weapons, i.e. a world free from nuclear weapons. The Committee also underlined the importance of the Communication that its path should be based on binding and verifiable agreements. Or, as Haakon Blankenborg said in an interview on 8 May 2003: ‘We really have no other way to go in this field than the contract path.’ We can probably connect to that. In addition, in the previous period, the Foreign Affairs Committee felt that, in the longer term, a separate Nuclear Convention should be considered, as it is currently a Convention against Chemical and Biological Weapons – and the Committee was still unanimous. Let me add that nuclear weapons are in a special position in terms of death and destruction. That's the ultimate weapons of destruction. The nuclear bomb on Hiroshima burned 80,000 people — children, the elderly, women and men — in seven short seconds. In all years afterwards, tens of thousands more of those who survived this human slaughter have suffered a painful death because of the aftermath of radioactivity. In fact, before the forthcoming Supervisory Conference, we have hope of progress. The Obama administration has proclaimed a world free of nuclear weapons. The Presidents of Obama and Medvedev have just signed a follow-up agreement to START, if so. the reciprocal dismantling of strategic nuclear weapons. This is important. It's actually crucial when we know that the United States and Russia have over 90 pst. by the nuclear arsenal of the world. We have just had the summit in Washington, where, among other things, addressed the danger that fissile material and nuclear competence would be in the hands of terrorists and unstable regimes, where nuclear waste treatment was also an important topic, and where our own Prime Minister was present. The latest U.S. Nuclear Posture Review clearly states that the importance of nuclear weapons in security policy needs to be reduced. This is and must be an important signal also to NATO's work on a new strategic concept. There are several people who have been involved. Let me add: NATO must not stand up in the situation that the alliance's nuclear policy becomes an obstacle to the US's new nuclear strategy on disarmament and non-proliferation. As far as I can see – and as the Foreign Minister emphasised – this will also be a topic for the forthcoming Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Tallinn, which will take place in a week, on the initiative of Norway, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium. I would also like to support the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important to cooperate across alliances and regions, such as Norway. In the field of maritime cooperation. Then we can discuss how it worked, but just as fully it's important to discuss this issue across alliances. Finally, I would like to commend the formidable work that I believe the current Foreign Minister and Government have done in terms of disarmament, in terms of non-proliferation, and in terms of arms control, not only in relation to nuclear weapons, but in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e555	I want to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question at a timely and timely time. I want to say that from my point of view, there is a lot of positive happening now, primarily in the aftermath of a new administration in the United States. It must be allowed to say that Obama has had a good spring in many ways. The obvious thing is, of course, the new agreement on disarmament, but also the new doctrine that was recently published, I think is a very important document. It seems that there is a larger international consensus on the significance of this. It also seems that it is possible to bring China in a different way than before, and not least, this issue is placed higher on the international agenda. But there's still a lot left. As many people have experienced, there are very many cuttings in the sea. New countries are striving to gain access to these weapons – these are, of course, some very unstable regimes – new technologies make it easier to obtain more of these capacities, regional tensions are very deep – the list is very long. Norway must contribute constructively where we can, and in this way we can. I feel that's exactly what we're doing. I feel that we have a long tradition of doing so, and I will give tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Government and others who have contributed to good results in this field and not least in other areas. There are two questions I would like to travel, and on which I would like a comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. One is working on the new strategic concept of NATO and the tactical nuclear weapons in Europe, owned by the United States, that are deployed in other NATO countries. Norway should be able to contribute to the unilateral extraction of these weapons. I can't see that they have any strategic significance. I know that the Russians still have many of them, and that they're probably going to have it for a while to come. Whatever Russia chooses to do, it should be an opportunity and a goal for NATO to end this deployment, so that all countries have direct control of the nuclear weapons they actually own. It would have been nice to get the Foreign Minister's assessment of it. The second theme concerns the Middle East, which may be the elephant in space, or the overwhelming issue both now and in the future – especially Israel and Iran. It's a field where I expect everyone to agree that you need some kind of progress. It's not very much that's happened in the last 15 years. There is great unrest in the region, but what could happen in today's climate in that region is somewhat more difficult to have an opinion of. At least it's hard to see where the solutions are. Some kind of progress, some target formulations, a connection, and perhaps a renewed commitment, to the ambition expressed in 1995 that the Middle East should be a nuclear-weapon-free zone, could still be important and positive. It would have been nice to have the Foreign Minister's assessment both of the chances of such a thing happening and of what factors may appear to be the most relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e572	I would like to thank you for your commitment to the debate and for the broad support for an ambitious, active and realistic policy, both towards the May NPT Conference and the work on NATO's new strategic concept. The only dissonance I heard came from Peter N. Myhre. His posts were marked by a not-so-a-small twin. As has been said, the Non-Proliferation Agreement has three legs. Results on all three legs are important, because they are connected. It's two main keys, I feel. One is to get strengthened will and concrete steps from the nuclear powers to rust down, with the liquidation of their arsenals as the goal, and the other is the right to peaceful exploitation. The last risk is that this is both misused for weapons purposes, which we are concerned that Iran can do, and there is a risk that the more fissile material is in circulation. No matter how peaceful it may be for, it poses a risk that it may be diverted and used by terrorist groups for dirty bombs, many of which have been involved. That's the extra dimension, because it doesn't seem like the threat of retaliation to terrorist groups, which is the core of the nuclear strategy, at all. It is in this light that I believe we need to see the contribution that Norway and other countries make to Kola in order to get the nuclear material there properly. It has an environmental dimension, of course, because if things go wrong there, we are close and will be affected. But it's also important to make sure that the fissile material does not deviate. I believe that international cooperation on this where we participate is important, because it also gives us confidence that this will happen in a good way. I am a little surprised if the representative Myhre is more comfortable if we were to leave this to the Russians alone. I would not have felt confident that it was better. So Myhre stressed that unilateral disarmament is a serious security risk. I have not heard anyone in this debate who has raised it. There are two perspectives we need to have with us: we have the right to defend ourselves if we are attacked, but at the same time, the international community has created a set of rules prohibiting some weapons and how we are going to deal with the war. It must be carried within some framework, as it is an attempt to limit the adverse effects. But nuclear weapons have the power to destroy all life. It's not a defense weapon. It's a weapon that can't be used, because then it goes completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e585	I would like to thank the representative Hansen and all the contributors to this debate. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark said something important, namely that in 2008 we had a debate on these issues in the hall. I remember being very pleased with that debate, because it fixed a very broad consensus not only on principles, but also on details and strategy. It's confirmed in this room today. But it's interesting again to recognize the Progress Party, which says we have to be realistic and the nights. Yeah, who's against it? Not me. But then they begin to draw up an image that nuclear disarmament has a twist of naivety and wishful thinking over it. After meeting the so-called hawks on the American side – Kissinger, Schultz, Perry, Nunn, old safety policy troopers – who say that the vision of a nuclear-free world is absolutely crucial to reverse developments in order to control the spread regimes, at least I am convinced that being realistic and the night is just about this. I fully agree with the representative of the Christian People's Party that the comments on aid are strange remarks. We are not taking that debate here. But the underlying criticism of our efforts in North-West Russia I really have to say that I am asking questions about it. I'm the first to welcome any revision, any transparency and any critical view of that kind of bet, because that's what we need to succeed. But it's so that our involvement in North West Russia in this area is part of a G8 partnership to fight against proliferation. That's what this is about. It's investment in global security, and it's one of the most successful projects in that way. It's not aid to Russia, but it's with Russia, who spends the most resources, an attempt to clean up a terrible legacy from the Soviet regime where the submarine lay pulled up on the beach in Murmansk with unsecured nuclear sources. Norway has now also been involved in securing the lights around the coast up there — a commendable initiative started by the previous government. We have followed it up, and finished the project. So here we have to look at what's in our interests. There was raised question about India. It is not that India has been given access to the NSG, but they have access to a limited nuclear dimension in the civil domain against accepting non-proliferation obligations. I even participated in the interview for that work to make sure that India at the high level confirmed those commitments. I can only confirm to the representative Borten Moe that the Middle East is of course a core area, as I also said in my post, and will be crucial when we meet at the Supervisory Conference. Maybe the vision to get the 1995 ambition of a nuclear-free zone is the way we have to go to get a consensus. I join those who thank you for the debate, it has been useful. And thank you to the interpellant!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e602	So the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e618	Getting the opportunity to train after an injury or an operation, or getting the opportunity to master a chronic disease by getting training and help is one of the important things to be able to master the lives of many of those who are injured. For many of those who can contribute and work a little bit more, or who can only master their everyday life, is just the part that it's about, that's to use the body and learn how to use the body in a new way, among the most important things that we can prioritise in health care. We spend a lot of money in Norway on a common somatic health care system related to treating people. We spend too little money on training, either by habilitation or rehabilitation, or by helping chroniclers or others master a life where maybe the body doesn't work as well as the average population's and young people's bodies do. This means that physiotherapy, training and rehabilitation should be important areas of action in the future. Some of this confession seems to me to have been part of the debates we have had on the Reform of Cooperation. We've discussed questions about how we can move other services, and how we can prevent diseases, and maybe a little too little – we should do it more – how we master to live with diseases and be able to participate fully in society even if you have a chronic disorder. The fact that an operation is not the end of treatment, but may be the beginning of a treatment, is an important recognition to bring with it. I was at the Privat Hospital Haugesund a few months ago. There they said that one of the reasons they had lower bids and spent less money on hip operations than the public does is that they have a fully integrated course of physiotherapy next door. They pull people out of bed quickly and quickly initiate intensive physiotherapy, and thus can write people out of beds much faster than is usual in traditional hospitals. I'm taking some time to say this, because I want to stress the need for this to be a bet area. Unfortunately, user organisations, relatives and those working in the sector experience this as a depriority area and an area where the framework conditions change without being aware of the results of the changes made. This is currently a sector in which part-time and shared policies dominate in a way that makes patients less available, and those who work in the sector have more difficulty. Since this government joined, there has been noise around and the dismantling of rehabilitation services. At present, there is uncertainty about the consequences and framework conditions of the conversion related to both outpatient physiotherapy in hospitals in Norway and to the framework conditions for physiotherapy outside hospitals – i.e. those operated by contract physiotherapists or physiotherapists with reimbursement schemes – because conversions have been carried out in both of these two areas over the last six months. These are conversions where it's hard to see that you've thought thoroughly through what the consequences are for society and patients, but you might have thought about how to save money for the treasury. Right-wing people don't think it's a bad idea to bring them, but you have to do it so that the effect on patients is correct. What's happened? Firstly, from 1 January of this year, we were given a change in the reimbursement scheme for outpatient physiotherapy. The news stories after there have been many. In Kristiansund Hospital, the hot water basin is laid down. It's cut in patient training. Rehabilitation services for children and sick elderly are cut. Offers that prove to be capable of preventing operations with 50 pst. must be discontinued. The only thing that's cut in the pool is 9 000 patients. In 2010, Martina Hansen's Hospital reduced the appropriations by 1.65 million. kr in relation to 2008 because of this conversion. They're deflecting the pool cleaning, and they're cutting out of outpatient physiotherapy. Røros Hospital terminates the pool cleaning, contrary to the intention of better healthcare where the patient lives, cf. Interaction reform. Similarly, the deacon home Hospital in Oslo and the Hospital Levanger are examples of a significant addition to the offer. They do so because of changes in the financial framework conditions and the transfer of appropriations. For those who work outside hospitals, a change was started last year in which more of the income would come from the grant to the municipality – the fixed grant that each physiotherapist has – and less in direct reimbursement from the social security. A quarter was completed last year. Even now, many physiotherapists report major problems. For three quarters, it is announced that it will happen at this new reimbursement cycle. What's the consequence? The consequence, most people say, is not that the municipalities increase the low job breaks on contracts from 20, 30 or 50 pst. Most municipalities say they already have too great challenges in many other areas to do so. If you look at the consequences of the conversion of physiotherapy services, I can sum up something. Some of the physiotherapists I've talked to say, "I'm considering ending up as a physiotherapist, or just working in a 50 pst job fraction, and then I have to find another job, because I'm not going to get this to go around. Someone says, "Because I have a 20 pst. agree to work for the public, and I will work one day a week for the public and four days in private. Then I get two cows, one line for those who might need the most physical therapy coming straight from surgery and having reimbursement. They must remain in line longer than those who choose to pay directly from their own pocket. The cows already exist today. The third consequence is that many of those that have 100 pst. The position, but which today works a lot more than the normal working day, says that it no longer pays to work overtime. That means they want to cut off their offer. It's nice to get a 9-16 job, but there'll be fewer patients. The conclusion of all three scenarios that now appear to evolve is that there will be fewer patient services, and there will be greater differences. If I had been very ironic, I would have said that the red-greens once again privatize more of the health services in Norway, and they're going to make two cows into physiotherapy. I don't suppose it's a wild policy, but it's a consequence of the current conversions. We can see the consequences, for example: Read what we see right now, with patient stories where people see that it's not the thing to stand in line anymore. This applies, inter alia, to: a single mother in Ålesund who works as a preschool teacher. She was ill-appointed because of the pain in her shoulder. After two months it turned out that there was a tendon infection that sat very well. She was requisitioned by the doctor for physiotherapy, and was then informed that the waiting time was from two months to half a year. So she would have to wait at least four months for sick pay from the time she was diagnosed, until she received treatment. She chose, despite her low salary, despite the care obligations, to give priority to going to private physiotherapy and spending $600 per week. week of own money for this. She's at the moment on the road to recovery, has started on graded medical reports, but still has a lot of physiotherapy hours ahead of her. But she can go back to part-time work because she chose to go to private physiotherapy, without receiving support from Nav or the reimbursement scheme. The situation is that this is going to be more norm than the exception if we don't now put our foot down and think again about what happens to physiotherapy treatment in Norway. My real challenge to the Council of State is that the Council of State now has to think through how powerful an instrument of economic incentives is. The changes that are taking place obviously have more dramatic consequences than I suppose have been the intention of the Minister of Health. Therefore, first of all, it is appropriate to stop the conversion of the reimbursement scheme for private individuals and to ensure that the consequences of the way in which the appropriations have been managed over social security have been fully reviewed; second, to implement the Right and Christian People's Party did not receive a majority in the autumn of the budgetary procedure: an evaluation of the conversion of physiotherapy related to outpatient clinics. And then soon there will have to be a clear and concise recovery plan, so that not this piecely and shared development of important services goes beyond life and dignity and makes many still go too lye and cold water, as we have seen over many years now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e652	There shall be no doubt that the Government is concerned with both rehabilitation and physical therapy. It is also clear that the Government will ensure rehabilitation and training for those who need it. That objective is the broad political impetus for it. It is not that the government’s policy leads to a reduction in the provision of rehabilitation services in health businesses. In the 2010 Mission document, we have clarified that services purchased by regional health enterprises from private training and rehabilitation institutions should have at least the same scope as in 2009. In addition, the regional health enterprises have used funds from the Rapid Back scheme to buy services from these institutions. The number of stays has increased in recent years. The government sees habilitation and rehabilitation as very important for mastering, for which the interpellant was involved, and participation and for increasing the ability to function with disability and chronic disease. Rehabilitation is also important to help those who are ill come back to work. The national strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation 2008–2011 clearly aims to strengthen this field. This strategy is followed up by the Health Directorate and Regional Health Enterprises. Rehabilitation in health services takes place both in municipalities and in specialist health services. Specialised health services provide rehabilitation services in physical medicine and rehabilitation departments and in other types of departments, outpatient clinics, through rehabilitation teams and by learning and mastering centres. Furthermore, provision is made in private training and rehabilitation institutions that have agreements with regional health establishments. It is important that professional groups, service levels and service providers cooperate on good and holistic services for patients. Physiotherapy services are a central part of the multi-disciplinary rehabilitation service — both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. Private training and rehabilitation institutions that have agreements with regional health establishments are part of the overall service provision in the region. From 2006 to 2009, we have increased the earmarked allocation for the purchase of services from such institutions. For 2010, the earmarked funds have been continued in the framework of regional health enterprises. The aim of the cooperation reform is to provide comprehensive and better coordinated services to patients who need it. Follow-up to the Interaction Reform will be important for the future development of services in the field of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. As of 2010, we have terminated the scheme whereby some health businesses may charge fees at the discretion of physiotherapists in the community health service. These funds were paid out over the outpatient budget. The amendment in force from 2010 means that 35 million. kr was transferred from the outpatient budget to the basic appropriations of regional health establishments. The conversion shall facilitate the equal distribution of funds between health regions and hospitals, in order to provide patients with the most equivalent range of specialist health services. It is assumed that health regions will continue to provide the necessary treatment services in order to ensure the best possible care for their responsibilities. The change is a clean-up and simplification of the refinancing of somatic outpatient activities. In the past, expenditure was covered by the public outpatient tariff system. Today, these expenditures are part of the ISF and DRG system, as is the case in hospital patients. In the context of the termination of the scheme, questions have been raised as to whether non-outpatient physiotherapy in hospitals can be included as an ordinary part of the effort-driven funding, and include all health enterprises. The Government will consider such a possible change in the effort-driven financing in the context of further work on the Cooperation Reform. So just a brief comment on some of what was taken up by the interpellant, as well as what I have said. I would like to stress that I very much agree that physiotherapy can be very important for mastering and living with disease. Interaction reform has a major focus on prevention, and rehabilitation and rehabilitation are, in fact, a key element in this reform. The changes made now aim to provide the same range of services across the country. That's what lies in the changes that have been made. It has not been about saving money. We're still spending the same money in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e675	I am a little surprised by the Council of State's response, based on the clear media reports that we currently have that the activity and the offers that have been before are not maintained by some hospital companies. On the contrary, there is a restructuring and a closure of offers, including: related to bass therapy, for which I mentioned specific examples, systematically in many places. This is part of the job done so that people can get back to work. And then my question is, does the Council of State have an overview of what's going on in the hospitals? The other side is the question of the agreements and the conversion of reimbursement for the private physiotherapists, which the Council of State did not mention. So the situation is that we have a little more than 1,000 more annual works in this physiotherapy than the municipalities de facto pay for. We have a conversion now, initiated by the desire to save on the social security systems, which can help to move these 1,000 year works out of the part of physical therapy that public funding is funding, and where people, and perhaps those who need the most, will be able to come and get help, and on the contrary you will get two different queues. The next part of this conversion shall be negotiated within a few months. Will the Council of State stop this and thus ensure that we do not have a reduction in the services provided by municipal physiotherapy? Because what could happen is that now we either get a reduction or a very clear privatisation of parts of this. I have met physiotherapists who completely end up in this kind of practice and move to fully funded private practice, because they are uncertain about them, for example. can only keep 20 pst. agree and have private practices alongside. This is a very critical result, which will become visible beyond the harvest, if you do not decide to stop further conversion, see these things in a context and make sure that the uncertainty with which many of the physiotherapists with the contract now live is resolved quite quickly. The Health Committee receives weekly — almost daily — letters from physiotherapists who are concerned about this situation and who tell their patients, who are becoming even more doubtful, that they cannot guarantee that the offers you receive today will be those that are being passed on to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e682	Let it be clear: I do not want a reduction in the municipal offer or a reduction in the physical therapy offer, nor do I want the result of the conversion to be a privatisation. It is a conversion of the grants. It is also based on the fact that many municipalities have distributed the operating grant to physiotherapists in very small proportions, rather than the assumption, that 40 pst. of the operating grant was to pass through the municipality, 40 pst. through partiality and 20 pst. through social security. What's important in this case is that it's a conversion, and it's clear that when we do a conversion, it's not that you don't follow in what's going on. On the contrary, we have tried to find out: has there really been a decline in the offer, are there physiotherapists who are liquidating? There is some reason to believe that municipalities have employed several physiotherapists, because they have had the choice either to have physiotherapists with operating grants or to hire their own, but at least I can assure you that we are following this closely. In 2009, physiotherapists have not reduced their business in the municipalities, at least not as far as we can see. But as I said, this is something that we follow very closely. Then I also hear that hospitals are changing and winding up their pools. Obviously, I have a lot of understanding that many patients need this. This is something that we will follow up, because it is a very clear condition for health care businesses that they should not spend less on rehabilitation and rehabilitation this year than they have used in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e691	I'll be allowed to start by giving some roses and some rice. Not unexpectedly, the rose goes to the interpellant, Erna Solberg, to address this issue, which is very important for many patients and individuals, and which many of them are concerned about. I would like to give rice to the Government and the Minister of Health, who, in my opinion, once again has made system changes that lead to a hard hit by individuals, by reducing important training, rehabilitation and habilitation services de facto. When the Government has changed the physical therapy service to make it more difficult to access this service, then it may not be possible to do anything other than provide economic motives — unfortunately. I have to admit that I have problems interpreting the answer from the Council of State. One must be very persuasive and have the truth reasonably far to claim that the physical therapy offer has improved after the Government's system changes. The truth is that the changes have just affected individuals. The sum of all people affected constitutes a large and significant patient group. It is quite right, as the Council said here instead, that the mission document does not require any reduction, but it is the actual and practical results that apply. And the list that was framed by Solberg's representative could have been made even further. That's the truth. There's no news that the government is letting bet on rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Equally, there have been major demonstrations, signing campaigns and other appeals to the government's lack of will and ability to bet on this field. Unfortunately, this is not something that only affects the many individuals who need rehabilitation services; it is something that affects us all through poor social economy, higher health money costs, disability costs, lower productivity, etc. Not investing in rehabilitation is a failure sin that has been committed by the Government over the past five years. As far as physiotherapy services are concerned, I would like to refer to the Advance Party's repeated proposal to remove the contractual clauses and to introduce the right of establishment for physiotherapists. The Progress Party was, of course, also opposed to the changes related to the lapse of reimbursements for outpatient physiotherapy and the conversion of the grant scheme carried out last year. As mentioned earlier, unfortunately, I see no other reason for the Government to tighten up the health service but to save money. We all remember how the unsocial aspect of physiotherapy was introduced by the red-green government, and then just after pressure from the Progress Party, user organisations and individuals. What will it take for the Government to realise that once again the system and the Minister of Finance savings knife have been taken into account for the needs of individuals for adequate and good physical therapy services? I can at least promise that the Progress Party will stand on the barricades to reverse the negative developments that the Government's policy has led to. Hopefully, the Health Minister and the Government will realize that people have been very wrong about changing the system for the benefit of the economy and not for the benefit of patients. There are many aspects of today’s system that speak to reverse and change the system – among others. the changes made last year — both for physiotherapists, for the social economy and, in particular, for the individual patient, waiting for rehabilitation, pooling opportunities, etc. It's not been that long since Easter. Advertising rolled over the TV screen with very reasonable mountain-wet rules. One of them was that there is no shame to turn around. In my opinion, it is time for the government to turn around in this matter before the storm comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e712	When you hear the statements of the Minister of Health, a person can almost get the impression that the reality that is around the country does not exist – that it is the description that the Ministry of Health gives in its public documents, which is reality, while the reality that a person experiences if a reader reads the country’s local viewer or talks to those affected, does not exist: for example, that one at the hospital in Kristiansand shuts down the hot water pool, that it was cut in the patient training, that it was cut in the rehabilitation offer of children and sick elderly, that offers which proved to be capable of preventing operations with 50 pst are now being completed. Only cuts in pool cleaning will affect 9 000 patients. This year, Martina Hansen's Hospital has reduced its appropriations by 1.65 million. kr. They terminate bass cleaning and kittens in outpatient physiotherapy. Røros Hospital has closed down the pool operation. The deacon home hospital in Oslo has been notified of a cut of 3 million kroner. Dr, and will have to reduce the pool and large parts of outpatient treatment. And at the Levanger Hospital, patients have been told that there was now a significant cut in the pool offer for revenants and heart disease, which affects over 200 patients. At the same time, the hospital prioritises the supply of muscle and skeletal disease, which is the largest group among the sick and the disabled. This is the reality of Health Norway, which I hope the Minister of Health will gradually take over. It is quite right that the same amount of money is allocated to hospitals, but the money is used differently. Hospitals use the money differently by not prioritising rehabilitation and offering to this patient group, but offering to other patients — probably — or other activities. And I suspect that the rationale used in the boards of local health care companies and internally in the hospitals for this kind of conversion is, in fact, the Interaction Reform. It is used as an argument that these are offers that municipalities can take care of, that these are offers that belong to the municipal physiotherapy system, and therefore they can do so. There is a trend: health enterprises act as if the Interaction Reform has been adopted. But this is done at the same time as there are no alternative offers for these patients in the municipalities. On the contrary, patients experience that municipalities are also undergoing a conversion phase, where the physiotherapy offer is being reduced. It may be encouraging for the Minister of Health later to think that the conversion where one collects these 20 percent to 100 pst. one physiotherapist, or one employee, in 100 pst. agreement, that means exactly the same thing. But that's wrong. The reason the municipalities divided the agreements into five, and gave five physiotherapists 20 pst. The agreement was that they got 500 pst. physiotherapists to 20 pst. Price, because these then got 100 pst. social security suspension. What's happening now is that when the municipalities put these agreements together in one agreement, there's going to be one physiotherapist where there were five physiotherapists in the past. And one should be quite distant from reality if one does not then understand that the offer to patients as a result is considerably reduced. This means, therefore, that this patient group now feels that the offer in hospitals and municipalities is being dismantled. At the same time, the national debate on the cooperation reform is concerned with the need to build up the supply of these patients, to operate more preventive activities, to operate more physiotherapy, to need more physiotherapists in the municipalities. It is the political signals given nationally — when one listens to the Minister for Health’s festivities, when one reads the documents from the Ministry of Health, when one reads the Storing Communication on the Reform of Cooperation. So you're going to meet the opposite reality in Health-Norway. It is the responsibility of the Minister of Health to ensure that this stops. It's okay to turn around! It's allowed to use your head, and it's allowed to read locals and see what's actually happening in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e727	It is not difficult to agree with the interpellant that physiotherapy and rehabilitation are very important for patients to recover, master their everyday lives and return to work quickly. That is why, in the Soria Moria Declaration, it is clearly stated that the Government should ensure rehabilitation and training for everyone who needs it – and let me add: regardless of the size of the wallet, and wherever in the country you live. In the setting up of the Cooperation Reform, which the Health Committee will issue next week, to be discussed in the European Parliament on 27 April, prevention, early action, and not least rehabilitation, will be one of the areas of highest political priority in the coming years. The representative of Solberg claims that, as a result of a reorganization of the funding system in hospitals in this area, a comprehensive cut is being made in healthcare businesses. That's not right – I'll come back to that. The financial instrument in question has been a temporary mechanism which has enabled only a number of health businesses to benefit from. Health undertakings have been able to claim reimbursement for tariffs under the local public health charging system. This has now been phased out, and the money – 35 million. kr – has been transferred to the basic appropriations of health establishments. This will include, inter alia: provide a more accurate distribution of the money and help us get a more equivalent offer across the country. This conversion, together with clarification from the Minister of Health to health firms that rehabilitation should be given priority, including: by continuing the earmarked appropriations for the purchase of rehabilitation in private health institutions at 2009 level – and the 2009 level is thus an increase of 120 million. kr compared to 2006 level – will contribute to this. The funding mechanism for physiotherapy services in hospitals, as stated by the Council of State in its statement, will also be assessed in the context of further work on the changes in the economy of the Cooperation Reform. Then the representative of Solberg claims that there has been a long wait in the municipalities as a result of the conversion there. So it's a conversion that the Storing has decided. The conversion means that the income of physiotherapists will be more likely to take the form of municipal operating grants. It is also not true that extensive cuts are being made in the municipalities. The figures obtained from the Statistical Central Bureau say that the annual effort of physiotherapists in the municipal health service has never been greater than in 2009. Statistics on payments of public health benefits to physiotherapists also show that the activity of physiotherapists has not decreased. That is the reality. This tells us that the reality description provided by Solberg is not correct with regard to the national level. Then I don't dispute single headlines in the newspapers. But when we're going to describe what the national situation is, it's not going to be a big cut. This does not mean that we have a good enough rehabilitation in Norway. This is a part of health care that obviously needs to be reinforced in the coming years, not least in the community health service. It will also be an important part of the escalation that will result from the cooperation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e753	Last autumn and winter we have had a very thorough debate on measures to reduce sick leave. It is positive that there was such broad agreement on a new IA agreement and the measures that came to reduce sick leave. No one can doubt that the government and the red-green parties took this debate seriously, and that its follow-up will be highly prioritised. If this were to lead to correctness, as the representative of Solberg claims, the government in the middle of this debate had adopted changes in the funding of the physiotherapy services leading to a reduced effort to get patients back to work, there would be grounds for criticism. But I feel absolutely certain that the changes that have been made do not have the negative effects that the representative Solberg claims. I am pleased with the presentation by the Council of State and with the changes that have been made. I understand that it is desirable to achieve a similar system of funding for outpatient physiotherapy at all health care establishments. I believe that the hospitals affected by the conversion will continue the treatment offered to them, among others. through mission documents. It is important that regional health businesses take care of this. In the Centre Party, we are pleased with the increased investment in habilitation and rehabilitation that has taken place and that will be significantly reinforced as a result of the Cooperation Reform. We imagine that municipalities will employ several physiotherapists when they are given an extended responsibility for the health of their citizens through preventive work, and in the strengthening of the community health service that will take place. Muscle and skeletal disorders are the most common single causes of pain and loss of quality of life in Norway and account for about 40 pst. of the total social security costs. It has been shown that these disorders particularly affect women and those with lower education and income. Knowledge and response to musculo-skeletal disorders are therefore important to address social inequalities in the health field. The centre batch is dedicated to reducing the waiting times for all types of health care, not least to reducing sick leave and to avoiding the extension of the post-disease rehabilitation period due to waiting. In order to avoid getting a classed healthcare system, it is important that we manage to reduce the waiting time at all stages of the treatment chain. And, of course, sufficient capacity in the learning and mastering offer is important for those who are plagued by chronic disorders. Here too there will be a need for physiotherapists. I am pleased that, through the changes that have been made in the funding of the contractual physiotherapy service in the municipalities, we have ended a system of splitting contractual homes into small part-time homes and placing them on the market at high prices. A few years ago, there was a huge media release about the negative aspects of this development for Health-Norway and for many who would establish themselves with their own physiotherapy practices. For the future services and to get the most back on the appropriations, what has now happened is positive. Then all the conversions will be able to give unexpected and unwanted results. I am pleased that the Department has made it clear, and the Council of State has made it clear, that one should have good contact with the physiotherapists' organisations and with the municipalities to ensure that the activity will not be reduced, as the interpellant claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e770	It is good that the framework conditions for outpatient physiotherapy are up for debate in Stortinget today. It is simply time for physical therapy to come on the agenda. The majority are currently receiving strong concerns messages where many say that the government is raging the physical therapy service. This affects large patient groups, and especially the chroniclers. This is serious, and I'm really quite amazed at both the answer given, and some of the posts in this room today. Physiotherapy must have a viable framework, and obviously it does not have today, it shows many messages. Physiotherapy is now without reimbursement, without the ISF right – i.e. the right to input-driven funding – and without the right to demand ownership. The Physiotherapy Association has carried out a survey of the consequences of the closure of the majority of population for outpatient physiotherapy when the Stortinget examined the budget for 2010. It turns out that once the regional health enterprises have distributed the funds through the income model for health enterprises, this distribution model has turned out to be very unfortunate for some enterprises. Yes, it is right, as the Council of State says, that the mission documents of regional health companies require the maintenance of the offer of outpatient physiotherapy. Nevertheless, as the Christian People's Party expressed concern, more people here in the Chamber have said: At the Namsos Hospital, parts of the physiotherapy offer are put down. These are patients who are completely unsolicited. At the Levanger Hospital, over 200 patients lose a year’s offer for pool cleaning. The hospital in Kristiansand closed the pool on March 1. This affects 9 000 patients. Røro's hospital shuts down the pool operation. The deacon home Hospital will have to put down the entire pool and large parts of outpatient treatment. But this has been mentioned by many, and then it's a little surprising that you can't admit that there are major challenges. This is simply a serious situation. Thus, according to the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association, the large picture is that pooling services are being cut down and outpatient activities are being considerably reduced. This, in turn, has a major impact on the treatment provision of many patients, and it will also have an impact on the overall activities of hospitals. We know it has consequences for many in terms of staying in the workplace. In particular, many scratches are dependent on the offer to maintain functions and working capacity. We know that the need for painkillers and other medications will increase. We see that the loss of reimbursement for outpatient physiotherapy leads to discontinuation of the offer, without any other offer being established in the community health service. This is awfully irrational, and it's so sad to see professional environments being built up, so to speak, to be rebuilt, but then there might be great challenges waiting. The government and the red-green parties cannot be aware that the physiotherapy service is now raging. The condition is so serious in so many hospitals that something has to be done, and it is very fast. The situation is despondent for patients and for the health professionals affected by this. I believe the debate today has shown that action is needed now. The Christian People's Party believes ISF reimbursement also for physiotherapy services is the right solution. A prerequisite for outpatient physiotherapy to also be included in the intervention agency funding is that outpatient activity is recorded and costed. This is in place, the activity has been registered for many years, and everything that has been taken out in reimbursement from health businesses to outpatient physiotherapy from HELFO should be available to the ministry. In these days, the provision of patients groups that depend entirely on training and aftertreatment in the pool was cut. Patients with high needs for outpatient physiotherapy services are affected. The Christian People's Party expects the Council of State to do its job immediately to reverse developments and resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e789	I do not doubt the intentions of any other political party and their desire that the policies they stand for are a policy that makes it better for patients and users, but I doubt a little bit about the red-green ability to see the consequences of their own policies, the ability to realize that the piecewise and shared-gear they are now running on, with physiotherapy as rehabilitation, contributes to the reverse effects of what intent was likely. It's not that hard to understand any simple operations. When a municipality has received five years of physical therapy for the value of one year's work for which they pay, and there is now a expectation that the municipality will pay for the five years' work and not just one, and the municipality will not have money, it will be a reduction. It's not so strange to think of the newly-trained physiotherapist who gets a 20 pst. Agreement. That agreement will continue, but with 20 pst. agreement you get an income discount of NOK 100000. As a consequence of the conversions, if they are fully implemented, this will mean something about how to organise their services. It's going to mean something for which offers patients get. I am not primarily concerned with physiotherapists, but I am concerned that patients should have a good offer. And the consequences, when you implement the last three quarters, are going to be great, if you don't stop and think about the contract-practicing physiotherapists. I understand that the red-green will not turn around and see, but then they will have to take responsibility for telling us that red-green policy means a more classy health care system. It means a greater degree of privatisation. That means the chroniclers must be in line. But if I get sensitised, I can afford to pay off the line. That's the consequence, Geir-Ketil Hansen, of the policy SV is now in the lead. Then it doesn't keep looking back at the SSB. Then you have to think, what are the reactions to the conversions that are coming? And then you have to say, do you want to wait two years and have the more classy society? Would you like to have the health care service where the chroniclers have to line up more than us who are relatively healthy, but who have little troubles? Or would you stop now and think again and say that the decision that was made might not have been so clever? Because it was not a trick, even if it was taken in Stortinget. It was not so wise not to think that economic incentives have an incredibly strong explosive force, not least for a single person who is now facing the question: what am I going to do next? Next year I'll get $100,000 less in salary. It's going to do something about the offer, and we're going to get a more classy society. I think that's stupid. I had not thought that red-green policy means that it is the wallet to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e802	The representative Pollestad actually described very well how the arrangement in the municipalities was earlier, and what was the starting point for the conversion that has been made. The starting point has not been to destroy the physical therapy offer, as the representative Filip Rygg described it. It was simply an intention and a goal of getting a fairer order in the municipalities. Also in all healthcare companies, a few more fair arrangements would be made. It's a fact that we're spending a lot more money on habilitation, rehabilitation and these areas now than we've done before. Then we can agree that this is a very important area that we need to bet on, precisely – in which the interpellant was in – to help especially chroniclers to work in everyday life. The starting point is that patients should receive a better offer. That should always be our goal and what we have to work for. I have also said that we will follow closely in the conversion that is now being done, or that you are at least in the process of doing so. But it is also the case that the budgets of the specialist health services have been spent on health businesses. It is clear that they must give priority to this area. They must give priority to physical therapy, which is such an important area, and so must the municipalities. Local authorities must also feel responsible for their citizens and give priority to this area. The whole municipal sector needs to be followed up here. Then, of course, I'm going to take my responsibility up in it all. As to whether the outpatient part of physiotherapy is to be included in the ISF scheme, we will assess it. It is an assessment that we make in the context of the implementation of the Cooperation Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e813	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e829	First of all, a short definition of what 'deviation' is in the setting I'm talking about. It can be very briefly defined as an unwanted event. This does not mean that there is necessarily an event that is reported, either to the NPE or to other instances. This is about daily events, big and small, where things go wrong. The interaction reform provides for cooperation across administrative levels, but interfaces can very easily allow for more divergences as a result of lack of accountability. It has to do with different levels of service. Typical areas of interaction where daily information is available are maternity care. Then I refer to the report on a safe food supply that was published a few days ago. Attention is drawn to: ‘In NPE there is a large amount of material that should be used in quality development, damage prevention and patient safety work. It is thoughtful that this work has not been given more weight to health care.» In other words, reference is made to a common knowledge that is not being recovered. I would also like to point out a few points that in many ways support what I claim is the interface that is exposed. This report points out that failure to use established procedures is an absolute hazard. Lack of routines and lack of communication are also a danger. The biggest challenge of all is to gain access to knowledge about where deviations occur. In order to obtain that access, it must be possible for those exposed to non-conformities to report it in a simple manner. In other words, it's about giving users access and tools to say from. As it is today, only those who work on the inside of a level of healthcare have access to report deviations. Furthermore, employees must be able to give notice of things that go wrong without being exposed to reprisals. In this way, I refer to repeated reports from the Norwegian Nursing Association, which make a part of what happens to those who are defined as alerts, as alerts of adverse events. They are still subject to a degree of negative attention from their leaders today. It is particularly typical in organisations where the safety culture is low. Time and access is another issue. On a daily journey, health workers shall have time to fill in a pile of forms in order to be able to report an aberration. It turns out in practice that this is difficult to achieve. Travel daily life in health is described on the one hand as a reason for deviation and on the other hand as a reason for not reporting deviations. So there's a double-sidedness in this. Complexity is also one of the factors described as a challenge in the notification of non-conformities. Such forms have historically not only been evidence-based, but have contained elements such as the individual experiencing an aberration, not necessarily having the knowledge to answer, and you can get a mental disability to fill in the forms. Therefore, the complexity of today’s reporting systems also becomes a factor preventing the reporting of non-conformities. And then you're left with some factors that kind of have to be handled in a system. We have the levels of treatment. They're only partially heard. You have ICT systems that don't talk to each other, and a complexity that makes things difficult. But all of these factors are affordable to solve. It's just about giving the right tools to the right people. It's here signed, based on our own experience of doing business, sees an opportunity picture, which I ask the Council of State to consider. If you give everyone in the country access to report non-conformities, the issue will be raised, and you can gain access to knowledge of non-conformities and the ability to do something about it. By being open to focus on this important area, you create transparency around the aberration theme. It is legitimate to admit deviations as well as to report deviations – after all, you work for an improved service. If national leadership raises the issue of non-compliance as a tool for improvement, it can be assumed that notification of non-compliance and systematic improvement processes will be more legitimate. The ‘Shame-blame’ culture, which is very prevalent in health, must be replaced by a ‘safety’ culture, as well as the one we have in the oil industry. In the opinion of this representative, we need to help those who want transparency and systematic improvement processes, with a tool that can work. Internet-based common system will also provide lessons at national level. Today's systems provide at best local knowledge, without the possibility of common learning. Common learning of errors is a significantly more appropriate way of learning than small, closed learning processes. Deviations can be done with this. It's just about knowledge, knowledge about where and when deviation happens, and knowledge about how to do something about it. Municipalities still lack some ICT tools, both for registration, ROS analysis and as a tool for case management and closure of non-conformities. Some municipalities are still at the level that they only have their systems as paper tools. It is not an appropriate way to work with deviations. There is little communication with the specialist healthcare service, which, a few years ago, introduced data solutions that require a person to be in the health network to report anomalies. Furthermore, there is a lack of routines for interaction between treatment levels. There are unclear lines of responsibility and cross-border responsibilities in the landscape we see in front of us. Municipalities can only report limited deviations, as are currently available in specialist health services. The specialist health service is equally bound in its non-conformity messages. As this representative sees it, large amounts of aberrations can be eliminated with a relatively low resource availability. There are many ways to deal with this, but everything starts with collecting data, data on when and where deviations occur. As long as we in Norway run quality improvement, non-conformity and improvement processes on an existing basis with different tools for recording and handling, we inhibit development, and in many ways you can see it as each municipality and health business needs to invent the wheel and the powder again separately. It is a costly procedure, which serves neither country, municipality, health business, employee, user or dependant. If you are to have permanent control of deviations to such an extent that you can reduce deviations, you have to work systematically with the subject area, just as you did in the oil industry in your time. In the view of this representative, the Council of State should begin to look at the possibility of an online system, where both health professionals, users, dependants – all – can gain access to record non-conformities. This has been introduced in Denmark with very good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e872	Health services are available to help patients – do not harm them or expose them to undue risk. Patient safety is about users and patients having access to safe and safe health care. Last night, I met parents who have lost their children in a hospital as a result of failure to provide health care. Such stories make a deep impression. It is serious when patients are injured or die as a result of healthcare treatment. The interpellant claims that errors are made in between 20 and 40 pst. of all patient courses, and that approximately 40 pst. due to medication errors, i.e. medication errors. Unfortunately, today we do not have a good enough overview of how many adverse events occur in healthcare. International surveys estimate that about 10 pst. by all those admitted to hospital are injured. It is this figure that the EU and the World Health Organisation use as a starting point for patient safety work. There are no equivalent international figures for primary health services. The national supervision of medical treatment in hospitals in 2009 revealed that three out of four hospital residents are at risk of being mistreated due to poor reporting and poor routines. The government places patient safety high on the agenda, and we need to continue and strengthen the ongoing work on patient safety. The representative Iversen proposes to introduce Internet-based non-conformities programmes where employees, users and relatives can record non-conformities that occur. The aim is to get an overview of all types of non-conformity and to carry out risk and vulnerability analyses for systematic improvement work. I want to explain which channels health professionals, users and relatives have to report non-conformities. I agree with the representative Iversen that it is important to register deviations. Most importantly, reporting procedures and follow-up are available at local level, as there is a potential for learning and improvement. Internal control regulation requires all health and care institutions to ‘provide an overview of areas of activity where there is a risk of failure or lack of compliance with regulatory requirements’. In the specialist health service, quality samples are established in all health establishments as part of the internal control system. The task of quality committees is to stimulate prevention and quality promotion work in hospitals. Health professionals, patients and relatives can send a message to the Quality Committee on all types of deviations, providing an overview of the type and extent of deviations. The goal is precisely to be able to carry out systematic improvement work, such as interpellant demand. A survey carried out by the Knowledge Centre at 28 health establishments in 2009 showed that all health establishments have a system for reporting injuries or adverse events. In all regional health establishments, except Health Mid-Norway, electronic reporting systems for health professionals are in place in enterprises. The monitoring also showed that attention around the reporting systems contributes to changing the reporting culture, so that health professionals report several adverse events. It is good, but there are few health companies that use the events as a starting point for causal or incident analyses at hospitals. We have to get better at this. I have therefore required, in the 2010 mission paper, that regional health businesses ensure that serious incidents are reviewed and that they are used for learning in order to avoid similar events happening again. The National Unit for Patient Safety was established in 2007. The aim is to support the healthcare system’s efforts to record, analyse, learn and prevent adverse events. The entity shall obtain information from the existing notification system and they have entered into cooperation with individual health companies, the State Health Authority and Norwegian patient compensation in order to obtain access to notifications. The information provided to them shall help identify risk areas, design learning information and propose measures to improve patient safety. The events that have caused – or could have resulted in – significant personal injury shall be reported by the hospital to the Health Inspectorate in the county, according to § 3-3 of the Special Health Service Act. The messages are forwarded to the Reporting Centre of the State Health Authority. The purpose of having a central database at national level is to get a picture of risk areas and quality deficiencies in the specialist healthcare service. The reporting centre provides a picture of the risk areas and type of events, but the data is not suitable for saying anything about the magnitude of serious events, including: due to under-reporting. Four counties are currently participating in a pilot study where § 3-3 notifications from hospitals to the Health Authority are sent over the Internet via Altinn. Over the past few weeks, health surveillance has been criticised for the way in which they follow up serious adverse events. Among other things, the criticism goes too long before the supervision investigates what has happened. They also get criticism that they only rely on written material from the hospital, while the relatives are too little involved in the matter. I listen to the criticism and have dialogue with the Health Authority about what can be done to improve. As it was announced last week, I have established a probationary system to follow up the most serious incidents once they have occurred. Regional health companies have been informed but will be instructed in the business meeting to notify serious incidents to the Health Authority immediately. The Health Authority has been entrusted with the task of setting up a call-out group to proceed quickly and obtain relevant information on the matter from healthcare professionals, patients and relatives. I stress that this system should ensure the supervisory follow-up of the most serious incidents. Several actors have suggested to the Ministry to move the management of the reporting obligation in matters relating to the Special Health Services Act §3-3 from the Health Authority to the Patient Safety Unit of the Knowledge Centre. The aim is to facilitate the learning of adverse events. I want to assess the benefits and disadvantages of such a change. The aim is to ensure that we have a comprehensive national system of patient safety in line with international knowledge and recommendations. Interpellant calls for Internet-based aberration programmes where users can also report deviations. From 1 March this year, users have been able to report side effects of medicines to the Medical Products Agency by means of an online notification form. In the case of adverse events and deviations in a broad sense, health professionals are obliged to obtain patient experience, and patients and relatives can complain to the hospital and health care services in the county. Health surveillance has stated that enquiries from patients and relatives about critical conditions are an important source of detection of health-related errors and injuries. So we have different reporting systems for health professionals. These arrangements are becoming electronic, and messages over the Internet will be the next natural step. It shall be easy for patients and healthcare users to contact hospitals and the Health Authority for complaints. Patients can today contact themselves by regular letter, telephone or e-mail. It is important that we continuously assess whether the channels we have for submitting complaints should be changed or expanded. Creating an Internet-based user aberration system for all types of events is currently not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e908	As the Council of State points out, it is operated on by an anomaly of 10 pst. On the other hand, what happens if you go into the research problem is that you have individual cases in this country where I can mention that you have an anomaly of 67 pst. for some types of operation and complications in retrospect. It's a report that's approx. four years back in time. My point of mentioning it is that the numbers crack, and the reason why they crack, are, among other things, that we have little research on this. Furthermore, I would like to refer to Professor John Oberveit's statements and research. He is responsible for this theme at the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm. There is nothing to suggest that the community health service is better than the specialist healthcare service, i.e. it is assumed in research environments that you have exactly the same anomalies in the community health service as you have in the specialist health service. Furthermore, the Council of State just points out what is my point. There are many possibilities for reporting non-conformities, yes, but the challenge lies in reporting non-conformities, in many cases they are the ones who have committed the non-conformities. Then you get this so-called gatekeeper function, and it's not necessarily that the deviation comes to the right place to do something about it. The quality range of any entity has three channels for issues they handle: there are deviations reported internally, there are deviations reported by county council, and there are deviations reported by the patient representative in the individual impact field. This means that you have to go through several levels before you reach the quality range. If a quality committee receives an opinion or an enquiry about a deviation from an individual patient, it is only exceptional. The challenge is that there is a long way to be heard from the individual who experiences an aberration, and up to the one who has the power and the ability to do something about it. That's where my suggestion is: make things easier, so that we can raise knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e919	I agree with the interpellant that it must be a goal to make messages and systems simpler, but there are many levels here. It is important that individual hospitals and institutions, such as: Community health care homes, learn from deviations and change their way of working, but it is also important that we can build better systems to improve patient safety through the work that is taking place, including at national level. The way we work with patient safety in Norway is also in line with how to work internationally with this. The EU Council of Ministers — including international figures — has followed up on this with involvement and information to citizens and patients, supported the establishment or strengthening of non-punishment reporting and learning systems, which are also an important issue here, and having patient safety much more on the agenda and as a topic of education and training and in the continuous training of health professionals. In particular, we shall classify and measure patient safety – having indicators for it – sharing knowledge and experience and best practice, and we shall develop and promote research. These recommendations are largely in line with how we work nationally in Norway with patient safety in specialist healthcare. In one area, a relatively short period of time has been found, and it concerns education and research. The challenge for Norway concerns the recommendations to support the establishment or strengthening of non-punitive reporting and learning systems. This can be resolved if § 3-3, the notification system, is moved to an independent body, which we have under assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e928	This interpellence raises the question of introducing an Internet-based registration programme for health professionals, users and relatives so that all adverse events can be easily reported. The issue is relevant because we know there are many unfortunate incidents in healthcare, and we know that the best way to reduce them is a culture of transparency with reporting errors, learning, changing systems and follow-up. The health service is there to help people. It is therefore so difficult to think about and talk about some people being injured and some dying as a result of adverse events in the services. However, this happens, and therefore safe patient treatment is one of the most important issues of healthcare and health policy. In Norway, no large studies have been carried out showing the real risk of injury to patients. However, there are international studies that transfer to Norwegian conditions suggest that ‘accident incidents’ in healthcare can lead to 2,000 deaths and 15,000 permanently injured patients. In the 2007–2010 National Health Plan, the Government has underlined the need for a cultural change in healthcare. There is a need for a greater recognition of errors, as well as greater transparency about unintended events and near-events. In order to support the work of the healthcare system, the Government therefore proposed the establishment of a separate national patient safety unit related to the National Health Knowledge Centre. National Unit for Patient Safety works, inter alia: by analysing data in national reporting systems to learn why adverse events occur and then proposing concrete measures to prevent recurrence of events. The unit is working on proposals for reporting systems where patients can report adverse events themselves and develop systems to measure patient safety. In 2008, the first patient safety conference in Norway was organised. The unit also participates in other ways in the training and further training of health professionals, and the unit is the secretariat and coordinator of the national patient safety campaign starting in 2011. One area where unintended events occur is surgery. The World Health Organization has compiled the checklist ‘Safe surgery protects life’, which has been translated into Norwegian by the Knowledge Centre. Operational intervention saves lives, but also poses a danger to life and health. The checklist is a tool to reduce deviations from established procedures. It is simple and shows cases of adverse events in a larger international study. The checklist has already been used by several health establishments, including in health west and health south-east. There is experience in other areas of society, such as: aviation, the ni-time use of checklists reduces errors and promotes a good safety culture. We are unable to provide a flawless healthcare service, but good practice should minimize errors. Then we have to learn from the errors that occur. In order to learn, mistakes have to come up to the surface. Therefore, the WHO – World Health Organisation – EU and the Council of Europe recommends the creation of reporting systems to promote learning and to be characterised by ‘No shame, no bile, no name’. This means, among other things: notification does not involve a risk of criminal prosecution or other penalties. The number of adverse events and deaths in a modern healthcare service is alarmingly high. That is why this is a major health policy issue that we must work intensively with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e945	I would first like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important and very topical theme that it is obvious that the interpellant has worked a lot on. This is a question that is absolutely essential for us to get a better health care. We have seen that other parts of our society have clearly worked with safety and learning culture, coupled with learning from mistakes, in a completely different and significantly more systematic way than what one has done in our healthcare system. Many refer to aviation, and that is a good example. For Norway, the oil industry should be a much closer example, where we appear world-class in terms of preventing errors and accidents. I have been thinking, and I have been thinking for years, that healthcare in Norway should use to a much greater extent the competence built up in that industry, in the health care system, to learn from the experience that one has done there in relation to avoiding mistakes and accidents. I myself have experience of participating in a lot of health conferences, and I myself have experience of participating in a lot of oil conferences. There is one thing that separates health conferences and oil conferences, and that is that when an oil conference opens, the first thing that happens is that the person responsible for the conference tells us where the emergency exit is. It has never happened at a health conference that those responsible for the conference first tell us where the emergency exit is. It's an example of two completely different cultures related to the focus on security. We have to do something about that. One of the areas in which one has to work is precisely culture related to notifying both when errors have occurred and – as the interpellant is involved – when errors could have occurred. That is what is being taken care of today by the § 3-3 scheme and communications that goes on to the Health Authority. If you want a job to do this, it's not just a cultural question, but not least a system question. What we're looking at is the messages that come in with Section 3(3) in Norway, is that one is probably pretty good at reporting on the serious incidents and on the almost serious accidents, while one is not so good at reporting on the less serious incidents. It is a problem, because less serious incidents may have a major impact on the individual patient, but it may also be a lack of a system. And that's the next main question here, the focus of business and health care on safety – patient safety and quality assurance systems. I have a clear impression that neither the boards of health companies nor the management of health companies have these issues sufficiently far ahead on the agenda, and that does not give the necessary focus to the organisation. In 2007, the National Unit for Patient Safety was established after, inter alia, a long discussion about how we should work on this, and after having had an internal working group in the Ministry of Health and Health that recommended such a solution. The issue of incident reporting was then a central part of the internal working group of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. They concluded that one should not set up a new notification system for the new national patient safety centre, but based its work on the already existing notification systems, and in particular on the § 3-3 scheme. I have recently become aware that the § 3-3 messages remain in the Health Authority, and that there is no legal basis for transferring this information from the Health Authority to the National Unit for Patient Safety. This means that the Health Inspectorate now has 16 000 reported § 3-3 incidents with which the National Unit for Patient Safety is not working. Both the contribution of the Minister of Health and the contribution of the representative Are Health could give a few impression that they are working on this kind of information – they do not. I would like to hear the Minister of Health's response, when you're going to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e960	Of course, we all want a health service that is safe and secure. Medical developments make it increasingly demanding to do so. We know that more and more technologically advanced equipment and new treatment methods require a great deal of knowledge and competence from health professionals. Unfortunately, as much as 10 pst is affected. by patients in Norwegian hospitals of what is often called ‘accident events’. That's why this interpellation that's been promoted today is very important. The causes of adverse events are many: misassessments of what a patient can tolerate of treatment, technical errors in the execution of treatment, insufficient knowledge of the treatment provider, but also system errors. According to a Harvard University study, 58 pst. prevention of adverse events. In 2007, more than 2000 notifications were registered with the Health Authority. 38 pst. of which there was significant personal injury, 49 pst. was about conditions that could have resulted in significant personal injury, and 13 pst. was unnaturally dead. 21 pst. of all the notifications were incorrect with the use of medicinal products as a cause and effect. There's enough reason to think that this is the top of an iceberg. The Christian People’s Party has for several years called for and proposed an anonymous reporting system for adverse health care incidents. That is why the signals coming from the Council of State are also positive. I feel that the Council of State is taking this issue seriously, and that you want to act. But it's not that there's a need to wait for evolution. Developments have come, and there is absolute time to launch a concrete action, so that you can register anonymously, preferably via the Internet. Firstly, there is a need for a change of attitude in healthcare. By getting used to reporting unfortunate events and deviations, this will gradually create more transparency. Secondly, it should not be a search for scapegoats that are intended for such a system, but to find out what goes wrong in the healthcare system in order to learn from it, so that it does not happen again. Health surveillance points out in reports that unfortunately several treatment sites do not have the ability to learn from their mistakes. According to the Knowledge Centre, today’s system is weak: it does not take on the basis of learning, there are many different systems of different purposes, there is no coordination, there is a lack of common framework and conceptual instruments, there is no analysis of what is needed for action, and there is no apparatus for analysing messages. The WHO has four core principles for guidance on reporting systems: its purpose is to learn, the message must be safe, it must lead to constructive response, and it must lead to meaningful analysis and learning. Structural measures are needed, including: common frameworks and conceptual instruments, coordination and analysis are needed. Learning must be the starting point. The interpellation and the response of the Council of State today have made it clear that it is a political will. I hope for quick action, for this is important. It is important for the patient concerned, and it is important for the health care system to be able to achieve an increasing level of quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e983	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. The Council of State clearly understands the matter. I am also very pleased that the representative Health sees the importance of this topic, and has a strong hope that it will also be focused on this in the future. To the representative Back: Christian People's Party says they want anonymous messages, but at the same time they want transparency. I see it as two contradictions. The point here is just to open up and do it legitimately. Then we can't necessarily say that it's related to anonymity. National patient safety unit has done a considerable amount of work since its inception. I am very positive about the work being done, but at the same time they have some challenges – they need knowledge, i.e. data on deviation. The data obtained today are of a more serious nature; the events leading to serious injuries and death. But deviation is about so much more than that. It's about all the parts of a treatment process. It's about closed fire doors if something happens. It's about case management that's not the way it should be. It is about treatment chains where ‘best practice’ is not followed despite the fact that the health business has a very clear position on what is going to happen. There are so many things associated with this theme. For the sake of order, I would also like to mention one thing – a quality indicator. It is a slightly complex issue, because it merely assesses whether specific requirements or standards have been followed. One way to look back is to run ‘hands on’ — see things in the small sequences that repeat themselves, come in early and start to process it. If you raise this to a national level, you will, among other things: The National Unit for Patient Safety has access to the knowledge that they are currently hampered by their not getting. It's their biggest obstacle that they don't get this data up, precisely because there are small systems, and local systems. In research, we have to raise it a little bit, and that's what I'm asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e996	The representative Bent Höie says we have to learn from others to get better. I fully agree with that. Overall, health services have much to learn from both the oil industry and the transport industry about what is going on building systems. So I'd say in some areas you've also gone the right way. When the Health Directorate is working on developing guidance or national strategies in different areas, for example: cancers and their treatment, it is clear that all systematic treatments of this type are actually part of the quality assurance process. At the same time, this is complex, as a lot of people have said, and we have a lot of work to do with establishing an environment for message that feels safe. For there is no doubt that there is a significant under-reporting in relation to, for example: § 3-3 on the notification scheme. There is a poor reporting culture in healthcare, and fear of sanctions from the Health Authority is probably a contributing cause. I took up the criticism that has come to the Health Authority in my post. However, I would also like to say in response to the representative, Höie, that both Health South-East RHF, the National Health Services Knowledge Centre and the Consumer Council have addressed the Ministry of Health and Health with a recommendation to move § 3-3 on the notification system, from the Health Authority to the National Patient Safety Unit at the Knowledge Centre. We are in the process of assessing the benefits and disadvantages of shifting this obligation. I also have to say, in the context of the focus that has recently taken place, that the basis and the background for the establishment of this exclamation unit, the basis for the immediate reporting of health companies and hospitals to the Health Authority, of course, is that patient safety should be taken seriously, that we should learn from and follow up on the undesirable and serious events. Filip Rygg said that there had to be a change of attitude. Yeah, I think that's gonna have to change your mind. We have to keep working on this topic, which is so important. So I would say that the interpellant has launched an important debate on an important topic for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e1009	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-15.ana.ud2551e1022	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
