ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e84	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, applied for leave on 28 and 29 October to take part as an observer in the election of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the Congressional elections in the United States. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representative, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e104	Janne Fardal Kristoffersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e118	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 455]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e134	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3, 4 and 5 are treated together. [[See page 455]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e174	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 95 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e183	The Storting Communication and the Report present extensive Nordic cooperation. Some claim, rightly, that this cooperation had deserved more attention. It would have been useful and pleasant, not least to legalise the work even more, to give cooperation even higher priority and not least to make it visible that the Nordic region is actually a winner region, as the Nordic Council itself has chosen to produce the Nordic region as. It is not unexpected that there will be a unanimous vote by the Committee on all the three issues under consideration today. This does not mean that there is necessarily a broad consensus on all the choices and priorities made, but in the main areas of the future, the position of the Norwegian side is rather coherent. Let me highlight some of the points raised by the Committee, including: to strengthen the parliamentary grounding of Nordic political cooperation, and, as far as the problem of border barriers is concerned, it is primarily in the respective national parliaments that the understanding of their reduction and removal must be present. In this area, considerable and extensive work remains to be done, even though the Nordic ‘ambassadors’ working on the matter work very hard. These and other Nordic enthusiasts are an extra reason to turn the ring around. At the same time, we need to strengthen the motivation to remove obstacles, simply to make the Nordic region even more competitive and to open up a significant domestic market in the Nordic region. A market of 25 million inhabitants is known to be larger than our home, for example, of 4.8 million. Furthermore, in an economically turbulent time – at least with our other Nordic friends – it is commendable that the Nordics prioritise their own Nordic cooperation. Baltic, Baltic and Western Nordic cooperation are part of our neighbourhood that we must cultivate, and a cooperation that will eventually bring significant benefits. It is also commendable that the work in the Barents Council and the work on the northern dimension are followed up, among others. through close parliamentary cooperation with Russia. A leap in joy, which really makes me wonder if it is the parliamentarians who decide in Nordic cooperation, is that the Council of Ministers has not followed up the Nordic Council's very clear declaration, on the initiative of the then president of the Nordic Council, Dagfinn Høybräten, to set up a separate information office in Minsk in White Russia. White Russia is perhaps Europe's only remaining dictatorship, and here our own Minister for Cooperation must give us an explanation of why the Nordic Council's decision in this area has not been followed up. It is gratifying that the former great scepticism towards the globalisation option has now turned to something positive. Let me say something concrete: in the opinion of the Right, the latest recommendation contains clear advice and recommendations on how the Nordics can make themselves more competitive and more visible in the big world. The priorities set are clear. Combining a Power North with parts of the Stoltenberg Committee’s recommendation regarding the Nordic countries’ foreign policy cooperation could contribute to the strong development of the Nordic Council as an institution through visible results. The Nordic Council, as well as the Nordic Council, should be weighted and measured accordingly, for the Nordic region should be able to cooperate much more closely. Foreign service, instrumentation, aid policy, joint marketing, etc. are some examples of areas that can provide significant joint synergies. In this context, therefore, the Danish Presidency model for green growth fits well. The Nordic region is a power of energy – not only fossils, on which we are primarily good at home – but also renewables, on which all Nordic countries are good at. In its comments, the Committee has underlined to a large extent how the Nordic region can even more fully open its own borders in this area. At the same time, the concept of green growth in the Nordic sense can develop significantly, including as a common Nordic business initiative abroad. Also in the defence sector, as pointed out in the vote, there is a considerable room for interaction where we are too small each. Technology and economics will set clear limits, so we have a lot of common work to deal with in Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e200	It is gratifying to see that the positions of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee on most points are unanimous, and the recommendations of the Stortinget are also unanimous today. So I'm going to give some considerations around the North and what's happening there right now. I think it is important in such a debate that we ask the question whether the EU has been the most important cooperation forum for the Nordic region – or whether it is no longer. Has the EU system taken some of the focus away from traditional Nordic cooperation, and has it become clearer since Sweden and Finland joined the EU in 1995? I am pleased to see that there is now a stronger focus on Nordic cooperation and the Nordic region. But if we look at what happened before, the focus was on Nordic cooperation, and questions such as: cooperation on defence and security policy issues and the cold war was a complete taboo. It now opens up a stronger cooperation that offers common opportunities. Nor has the Nordic countries had the tradition of a coordinated foreign and security policy. If we look back at the negotiations, for example. on the Nordic Defence League, they broke up in 1948-1949. We have had a shared security policy, and Nordic negotiations in 1970 collapsed. We had a split North in the EU: three countries inside and two outside. It might have looked like it's easier to cooperate outside than it was inside. There have also been historically different draws in the Nordic countries and in Nordic cooperation. We have had the United States and the United Kingdom on the western side, we have had Europe and Germany that have been heavy, and we have had the eastern side, like Russia. There have been different policies in different countries after the external point. Here we see how the Nordic countries have historically reacted differently, and the external forces have in many ways split the Nordic countries. But in my opinion, we are now more collected back. We've seen in the past that thinking about the Northern Military Alliance has failed. We've basically thought in two boxes: the NATO box and the neutrality box. Fortunately, initiatives have been seen from different governments — including this selection with Thorvald Stoltenberg as the leader. It's a pleasure to read this report. Here we can develop certain things that are important to the Nordic countries, not least security cooperation. In this area, we perceive that there is a deepening of the Nordic dimension that emerges, especially in proposal 13: that we stand united in security policy issues, that we act jointly in a spirit of solidarity. This is important, and there are tracks that we must now pursue and move on with. We are already doing this in a number of areas, both in air surveillance, maritime surveillance and military equipment, training, etc. So I'll finally get into the Arctic Council a little bit. That track is a very important track. I would like to stress that Norway has strong traditions in polar regions, and we also have strong national interests in polar regions. The Storting has set up an Arctic parliamentary group. It shows the utmost seriousness in the matter. It will enhance the attention of the Greatness and Nation in the Arctic. The report we have here today shows that they have been particularly involved in maritime safety and rescue cooperation. But the Arctic Council brings together the coastal states and the other Nordic countries. This research and the acquisition of knowledge by the Arctic Council is also part of the premise of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The rest of the population is given their rightful place here at the table, and it emphasises the consequences for the environment and indigenous people now that the sea is retreating for certain periods. We must be aware of the international interests that are being addressed to this area now. We see nations in Asia, like China, Japan, India and South Korea, react. It is important that we take part in the further work, even when we put the framework in place for the law for these sensitive areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e221	Report. St. 23 is probably much thinner than many of the things we get to deal with here in the Storting. But the content is a straightforward and good summary of the extent of Nordic cooperation as it has evolved to this day. We see that cooperation between the Nordic countries has gradually become extensive, covering most sectors. It is important that Norway cooperates closely with the Nordic countries, and it becomes particularly important in a situation where Norway — at least in part — is outside EU cooperation, of which our neighbouring country is part. I also support the rapporteur's statement and also think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has come up with a good position which I believe reflects the views of the Norwegian members of the Nordic Council. However, I would like to make some points that I would like to comment on. My experience after five years as a member of the Nordic Council is – as I said at the outset – that Nordic cooperation has become relatively extensive. The question is, when cooperation has become so extensive, what results do we see? I think we see smaller movements in some areas, and then we see some larger movements. But I think it's important, and I think we've come to a point now, that we stop a little bit and see what results we're actually coming up with, i.e. we're kind of putting up some kind of political accounting and then asking ourselves if we're satisfied with it. I also think that we need to discuss in more detail whether we need to gather forces in some areas and solve some areas. It is initially under «Front barriers»: ‘In the Nordic Council of Ministers, it is agreed that all Councils of Ministers and Committees of Ministers should have frontier barriers on the agenda at all meetings, but the complete reduction of border barriers is neither realistic nor desirable, because the Nordic countries have different laws and regulations in many areas.’ I think it's a passive approach. If there's a place in the world where border barriers should be an extremely rare unit, it was between the Nordic countries, precisely because of the interaction between the Nordic countries, and also because of the homogeneity and the community that we have in the Nordic countries. The North should be the world's foremost dynamic and innovative region. Therefore, we should have a real power collection to build border barriers down to a deciduous minimum. At least there should be an explicit Norwegian position. The Norwegian big business and the Norwegian government should help in all the cases that we deal with, to ensure that at least we do not contribute to any new frontier barriers, and that we are the ones in front of building down border barriers to our neighbouring countries. This is precisely because we may be the country that relies on cross-border interaction, especially with regard to acquiring skilled labour in many of our sectors. Therefore, border-blocking work should be put on – as it does – but I think that we should also put this higher on the agenda. The Stoltenberg report is a glittering example, and I have said that in the past, on how we can put action plans in different sectors. It covers some central areas, not too many. It is brief, easily understandable and is in areas where it should be unproblematic to follow up in a relatively short time. The project "New Nordic Food" is a glittering example of how we can put what is Nordic in the high seat and make it a brand. But I'm probably afraid that Norway is also contributing to significant frontier barriers with our protectionist agricultural policy. In the setting on page 5, the Committee states: ‘It is essential for the future of cooperation that the popular and political dimension be strengthened, that the agenda be set by politicians and that Nordic cooperation be actively used in political processes to promote quality of life and growth in the Nordic region. The Committee considers it necessary to guard against red tape of cooperation at the expense of its political core.» This is a point where we need to have a big debate, and there is a lot about the working order of the Nordic Council. I am not sure whether it is the politicians in the Nordic Council who have the very great influence on Nordic cooperation. That is precisely because the relationship of power has been reversed in relation to what we are used to in our national parliaments. The Nordic Council may adopt a number of positions, but it is the Council of Ministers that will decide whether this is something they want to follow up, and the Nordic Council has no power. It shows you the discussion about this with the Minsk office. That is why I think the Norwegian delegation should take the initiative to find out how the elected and the political debate can be raised higher in Nordic cooperation, and to find out what role we should have as elected politicians. I don't think we're going to get away from the debate on whether to sharpen the political debate on fewer topics. Finally, I would like to address a topic that I would like us to be able to get feedback from the Minister of Cooperation here today, and this is the case with small crafts. I am in the Committee on Culture and Education at the Nordic Council, and where considerable and remarkable efforts have been made by several representatives to raise the issue of the situation of small and rare crafts. We have sent a number of recommendations to the Nordic Council of Ministers without getting anyone – I don't know if this is a parliamentary expression, President – sensible feedback, from our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e251	Yes, it is entirely parliamentary to be sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e254	So we get feedback that this is something you're working on, but the situation for many of these small, rare crafts are now so critical that it needs to be acted on quickly, otherwise the Nordics can stand without very valuable skills in the future. Then the solution is that we're picking up power here, and we're agreeing on Nordic lines in some of these areas, so we're sure that we're getting the skills we need in many areas, even in the future. Therefore, I could imagine that the Minister of Cooperation here today could explain a little bit more about how she and the government look at the time perspective in order to resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e259	Int. 30 S from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the annual report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council which we are now considering, it is unanimously stated: ‘The Committee has noted that there is a proposal for all the Permanent Delegations of the Grand Duchy to promote a plan for the coming year’s work and thus contribute to a more forward-looking debate when the delegation reports are to be submitted.’ We in the Center Party are very happy about that. What do we want? What does Stortinget want with the Nordic Council, yes, what do most people want with the Nordic Council? There is a need for a more active debate among the people most. More public information is needed to give greater attention to the work of the Nordic Council and to all the related activities. As a member of the Nordic Council delegation, I see that different links with the European Union complicate the work a lot. It also provides a seawardly different perspective on the role of the Nordic and Nordic Councils. But for the Center Party, there is no doubt that we want to develop and build the Nordic community. We are, of course, concerned with reducing border barriers within the framework of the different EU links we have. Obviously, we should work for improvements, for example – to get into a small case, but which is important – working for common mortgage systems for drinking packaging. It's a question that's quite important to many. We see those that are now pelleting up empty packaging. Very much of the empty packaging that is being peeled, which has been thrown, is empty packaging that cannot be pledged in Norway and will therefore contaminate nature. However, what is most important for building the Nordic community over generations is language and cultural cooperation, because it reaches many people, and it is important for people in everyday life. The voluntary sector is crucial here, and the Nordic Association is doing a very good job that has major ring-effects, because it links people to Nordic cooperation in a way that's inside the body, it's something that matters in everyday life. Another issue in strengthening language and cultural cooperation to which greater emphasis should be given, and which strengthens the understanding of it by most people, is access to television programmes from the state television channels of the Nordic countries, which is very important for news and debate information. More attention needs to be paid to this important language and cultural information so that TV viewers in the Nordic region can easily and reasonably have access to it. The Stoltenberg report has been on several occasions. It is a very good and important document for further discussion and further action. Fortunately, the report has been received with the understanding that the manager wanted, namely that it was a long-term line that one would continue to work with, and when the opportunities offered, one would take on the proposals and concrete measures that could then be taken. Finally, the role of the Nordic Council as an active player in regional cooperation in the Nordic neighbourhoods. For Norway, what is happening in the western Nordic countries, the Barents region and the Arctic is particularly important. It is important to strengthen efforts and coordinate interests in a thorough, systematic and long-term manner here. What's happening in the Barents area and in the Arctic has a strong focus, and it's very good. What does not have such a strong focus is West-North. The interaction between Norway, Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands is very central to Norway’s interests in order to ensure joint action on resource management and the distribution of income of the natural resources that we are talking about here. It is hoped that this focus will become even stronger, because it is very important for large groups in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e279	Nordic cooperation is important because in the Nordic region we have a cultural community that is worth taking care of and managing and developing further, because in the Nordic region we have a welfare model that other parts of the world look to with great interest, attention and envy – not least in the time we are living in now, with a great degree of globalisation and financial crisis and its effects – because the Nordic region is seen as a solidarity region, an external region that is concerned with setting up also for the less favoured parts of the world, and Nordic cooperation is important because in the Nordic region we have great common benefits, for citizens and for communities, of coordinating, interacting and cooperating in important areas. There are positive developments in Nordic cooperation, not least in the area that we can sum up with common Nordic benefits. Border barriers have been raised on the agenda both in the Nordic Council and in the Nordic Council of Ministers, and to an even greater extent taken seriously both at Prime Minister level and at ministerial level. It is now a constant part of the political agenda of Nordic cooperation. That's good. What remains is to see the political results of this stronger political priority. It is essential that political pressure be held up both by parliamentarians and by ministers in order to achieve this. The repellents are large in the entire apparatus below. We see a very positive trend in foreign and defence cooperation. Paradoxically, the area that was banned from talking about just a few years ago, perhaps the area where today the most exciting developments are taking place between the Nordic countries. I have found that in the wake of the Stoltenberg report, defence cooperation between several Nordic countries is a dynamic development. This is happening at the practical operational level as well as at the political level. There's every reason to encourage further. We have a great deal in common with political cooperation, but not least with the cooperation that is taking place on something as concrete as areas of practice and the exploitation of economies of scale. We are also in an important phase now as regards the Stoltenberg report on cooperation on foreign stations. The development of the EU’s foreign service is at stake. We still know too little about what that will lead to, what kind of pattern we want to see. But there is every reason at this stage to draw attention to the opportunities that can open up to a greater degree of Nordic cooperation on both consular services and other parts of the activities of foreign stations. We also see a Nordic region that is more open to coordination and cooperation towards processes in the EU than we might have seen in the early phase of their EU membership of Sweden and Finland. It should be exploited by Norway, knowing that we do not always have a common interest with all Nordic countries at the same time. I also record with great and positive interest the enhanced coordination on the energy side that our energy ministers have recently declared at their ministerial meeting. So there are several negative trends. One of the concerns of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Youth is that we seem to drift apart in knowledge of languages and culture across borders in the Nordic region. It requires attention from education authorities, from the cultural point of view, but it also requires political vigilance to look at opportunities to strengthen and substantiate the community that, after all, is there, but does not come of itself. There's a lot of concern if Nordic youths, at least in the Scandinavian context, prefer to speak English rather than speak their own languages, as we see many examples of. However, what I want to spend the rest of my speaking time on here today is something that I think it is necessary to include a more basic settlement in Nordic cooperation, and that is the tendency for Nordic cooperation to be depoliticised and driven by bureaucratic forces, which do their job, but they fill a vacuum left by politicians who do not engage. It's a hard criticism. It hits us elected by the people, it hits the Council, and it hits the Council of Ministers. But I think it is very important that we all bear in mind the unanimous opinion of the Committee and quoted from the Parliamentary Chair here in the past: « The core of Nordic cooperation is a politically committed interaction, based on the Helsinki Agreement and with the policy bodies of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers as the main actors. [[...]] It is crucial for the future of cooperation that the popular and political dimension be strengthened, that the agenda be set by politicians and that Nordic cooperation be actively used in political processes to promote quality of life and growth in the Nordic region. The Committee considers it necessary to guard against red tape of cooperation at the expense of its political core.» When a unanimous foreign committee considers that there is reason to point this out, it is not without reason. We are constantly seeing examples of political initiatives taken in the Nordic Council being overlooked, buried or trained by the Nordic Council of Ministers. We're going to Iceland now on session. The core of the session is then the 87 parliamentarians of the Nordic Council. At the last session of the Nordic Council in Stockholm, there were nearly 1 000 people present, and most of them were not politicians – they should be there, also from the Ministerial side – but they were devices. We need apparatus, and we need a lot of apparatus, but the question is, are we going to allow a political arena to be so totally dominated by apparatus? I also ask questions as to whether the Nordic Council of Ministers’ civil servants’ system has survived. I say this with a background of six years as a member of the Nordic Council of Ministers. I know very well what the Committees of Officials do out of sensible work. This is not a criticism of anyone sitting on the Committees of Officials, but it is a criticism of us as politically responsible. It is so easy to leave important political decisions to the Committee of Officials under the Council of Ministers. If you do not agree with the Council of Ministers, you can leave it to the Committee of Officials to try to reach an agreement. If they don't agree, there won't be any of it. It's often a pattern. I wonder if Nordic cooperation has served to have official committees. Is it not possible simply to abolish them, to ensure that the core, namely the interaction between the elected part and the ministers, becomes the central axis of cooperation? It would simplify, it would save money, and it would politicize Nordic cooperation. I'm throwing out that fire torch, and I hope someone takes the debate. They don't necessarily have to agree with me in the first round. But I think it is necessary to discuss fundamentally how the Nordic Council can target and prioritize its policy work, how the Nordic Council of Ministers can make better use of the decisions of the Nordic Council. An example is mentioned in the setting. A unanimous committee criticises the fact that the Council of Ministers has not followed up a recommendation adopted last by an overwhelming majority on the Minsk Office. There's only one example among many. I think that we should move on and revitalise Nordic cooperation, we must politicise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e312	With regard to the last post, to the representative of the Højbråten, I think it is exciting. It is an important debate that the Nordic political system should take. My basic position must be that in such a situation, where you point such a clear index finger at the office system, it returns as a rendezvous to the politicians themselves. It is only and can only be those who are responsible for how such cooperation works. I believe, in fact, that the basic thing in the Nordic region is not transnational cooperation, which does not take decisions that are binding on governments. That's why you get this interaction, which can sometimes be experienced as frustrating. But it is a debate I would like to welcome, which the Minister for Cooperation will certainly follow up. I want to reflect on a relationship in terms of foreign and security policy. After World War II, when the cooperation found its form, the Nordics went in front in all areas, except two. It was about an internal market reform – entity – and it was about foreign, security and defence policy. Those areas didn't manage the Nordics alone to gather around. Then came the EEA Agreement, which, for the large Nordic internal market, was the most important Nordic cooperation agreement we have ever concluded, when we see that the internal market in the Nordic region actually came through a European solution. Now we've been working on foreign and security policy in a way that respects the fact that some countries are in NATO, some are in the EU, and some are in both. There's a diversity in the North around this. The Stoltenberg report is a very important contribution here. We asked Thorvald Stoltenberg to think boldly – 10–15 years in time – and to go 50 pst. longer than governments would normally do. We've got something to go after. In Reykjavik next week, foreign ministers will take stock of where we stand. We have achieved a good deal in a wide range of areas: military and civil crisis management, Nordic cooperation on defence against digital attacks, continuous, close contact between Nordic defence authorities and close coordination of foreign administrations. The intriguing debate on political issues relates to proposal 13, namely a Nordic declaration of solidarity. It is an exciting proposal, because it challenges some traditional thinking about what it means to have a declaration of solidarity. We're used to Article 5 of NATO. It is confirmed and made clear at the NATO Summit at the end of November when the strategic concept is to be adopted. But we now have the debate on the value of such a statement and how it can be designed. It is a debate that challenges old thinking, which will also take account of new realities, but which will be an additional dimension to what we already have, and it will be exciting to see how we can move forward. I assume that there will be a debate between the foreign ministers in Reykjavik this week – but also, I hope, during the plenary debate in the Nordic Council. Is EU cooperation an obstacle to the development of regional cooperation arrangements? I think from the experience we're now seeing, that the answer to that is no. What we are seeing around now is that countries, 27 EU countries, focus more on their own national foreign policy around the region. I think it will be reinforced when the Treaty of Lisbon is followed up by the implementation of common foreign policy. I have just returned after accompanying His Majesty the King on a state visit to Slovakia. I have got an idea of how Slovakia is now leading the Visegrad cooperation between Austria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and I see this in a regional context, also facing Ukraine and the Balkans. There are many exciting proposals there, concentrating national foreign policy around that region. I could share experiences from our northern regions. Norway is now leading the work of the Baltic Sea Council, we are part of the Barents Council, the Arctic Council and the Nordic Council, of course. Norway is also hosting the next week when the EU’s northern dimension, that is, the EU, Russia, Norway and Iceland, meets at the Ministerial meeting here in Oslo. In this way, the regions of Europe are linked by deepening cooperation. Many of the experiences we have with border regional cooperation in the north are interesting for the countries of the south and vice versa. In fact, Slovakia is the geographical centre of Europe, and there is a lot to learn from what they do out of cooperation there, close to the countries. Finally, I would like to say that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr was concerned about the obstacles to the border. It's being prioritised by everyone at all levels. But I also think we have to admit that when we're different countries, there can be arrangements where we're different. But at least now the mechanism is there, that all such arrangements, if any, must be founded and must be well-founded in order for them to exist. I believe the citizens of the Nordic countries deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e325	The formalised cooperation between the Nordic countries is among the oldest and most extensive regional cooperation in the world. Political cooperation is based on common values and a willingness to achieve results that contribute to dynamic development and enhance Nordic competence and competitiveness. Since the formal cooperation started at the founding of the Nordic Council in 1952, the cooperation has remained firmly established. I would say it so strongly that Nordic cooperation is now more important than ever before, and important tasks need to be solved further through this cooperation. A big task is still to remove frontier barriers. I also do not believe that all border barriers can or should be completely removed between the Nordic countries, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned. We are different countries, and we have different starting points and natural conditions that make our countries unable to have everything the same way. At the same time, I believe that we parliamentarians must strive to remove border barriers that are unnecessary and that are a problem and a scourge for our citizens. In particular, this applies to those who work across borders and who notice such problems in several ways on a daily basis. I am pleased that border barriers have such a high political priority, and that the Nordic Prime Ministers have also given the Council of Ministers the task of investigating the removal of frontier barriers. The Border Obstacle Forum, which was appointed, is tasked with identifying barriers to borders, prioritising them and anchoring selected obstacles in their respective governments. I consider this work very important, and I am not in doubt that this will have to produce results. I am also concerned that no new barriers occur while we work to get rid of those who already exist and which it is possible to remove. We can record from time to time that the implementation of new EU directives can create new barriers that have not been there before. I believe that this is something that we must all be very alert to and as far as possible, try to prevent. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very aware of this, and I hope that the Nordic governments, in cooperation with the Border Obstacle Forum, have a readiness that this will not be a new problem for our citizens. I regret that the committee has mentioned the importance of the Nordic genetic resource centre, including, of course, the seed stock at Svalbard. I share the Committee's views on this, and I think I have the entire Norwegian delegation with me when I say that we are very concerned that NordGen can develop its important work further. Let me also say a few words on this occasion about the important Stoltenberg report which was presented in spring 2009 and which lists 13 concrete and possible Nordic cooperation actions in the coming period. I am pleased that the Nordic countries have been so positive about these issues, and that they are dealing with the report as thoroughly as they do. I am not going to take the 13 measures outlined in the Stoltenberg report today, but just mention the proposal for a Nordic marine monitoring system. I would also like to see this in the context of the ongoing climate change and the fact that new sailing leaders are opening up because of the rapid ice melting we are now witnessing. In this area, the Stoltenberg report is becoming increasingly topical, and I believe that this is perhaps the point of the report that is most urgent to move forward. What I have said here clearly shows the importance of Nordic cooperation in the coming period. I also join the representative, Mr Højbräten, in his statement on the need for more active political involvement in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e345	First to those who have spoken about the need to revitalise the Nordic Council. Perhaps the various international delegations should meet and discuss this. In the Council of Europe, we are now engaged in a huge reform, not just in the organisation. Parliamentarians are also being challenged to undergo reform. This applies, for example: to find core areas for cooperation, but also to reduce committees in order to be more effective. So maybe we should talk. There's something the presidency has called for, and maybe we should pick up the glove. Norway has long traditions in polar strata and has major national interests as polarisation. Now that there is increased activity in the Arctic, maritime safety and rescue cooperation are one thing you work on and try to find a solution to. There is no concealment that while the number of fishing vessels and cruise ships has increased dramatically, the same has not been the case with the preparedness. There are currently very limited options for rescue operations. So if we take Norway, we don't have a helicopter with a heat-seeking camera in the area. Then the accident would be out, we're hoping that we've got a good cooperation with other countries' preparedness. This is a major problem and can be even bigger if there are more open waters and smaller ice in the future. This has been understood by all the Arctic countries, and they are trying to find a solution to it. The ninth Arctic Parliamentary Conference was held in Brussels in September this year. A final declaration was reached on how sustainable resource management, education, research and the consequences of ice melting in the Arctic were key themes. It is an important work done in the north, both strategically and politically. There can be no doubt that there is a long-term work on trust building and dialogue to reach an agreement on a dividing line in the north. This is what the government did, and it should be praised for that. It is also important to have a parliamentary dimension in this work – this in order to help keep focus on the challenges in the Arctic, but also on engaging and involving Russia. There is a lot of good political craft in parliamentary delegations, networks are created, and dialogue is created. It may well be beyond doubt that our very good relationship with Russia has produced results. So sometimes you can see that big brother actually lets himself be influenced by the baby sister, just those guys long enough. When you go through the Brussels Final Document in September, you see that there can be a hectic time for Arctic parliamentary cooperation. A whole of 39 points have been drawn up and sent to the Arctic Council, calling on the governments and parliaments of the Arctic region to address the various challenges ahead, close cooperation and good dialogue. There are a few things I would like to mention in particular. An ice-going research vessel is needed. It's very nice to see in the budget that 5 million have been allocated. kr to a pre-project for this very purpose. Research and education are important, as also appeared in the report for which Morten Höglund was rapporteur. In particular, an ice-going vessel is also important with a view to monitoring developments in the ice-melting industry in the Arctic. The fact that a working group has also been set up that negotiates an obligatory search and rescue agreement is also gratifying. This shows that the Arctic Council can actually take decisions, unlike perhaps the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe. They don't have to go rounds at home in their own governments, which can be very time consuming. So there is a profitable hope that a legally binding agreement will be in place as early as May 2011, creating much greater security for the Arctic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e364	I believe – like what others have said, perhaps in a slightly different way – that Nordic cooperation is unique in many ways. The fact that the Nordic countries are able to cooperate politically and culturally over such a long period of time has obviously meant a great deal to the whole development of the Nordic countries. It's about political development, it's about economic development, and it's not least about cultural development, which is often much more important than what we politicians might focus on. There is no doubt that in the years that come and in the time that comes with globalisation and everything that comes with it, it is very important that we are able to maintain the political dynamism of political cooperation in the Nordic region. I stress the word political 'dynamics' because what I see as a danger signal is what the representative Højbrätten was in a precise and good way inside. As Stortinget knows, I am new in this context, but I have to say that what I have experienced in connection with part of the work that we have at the Nordic Council exactly matches the presentation that Højbråten gave in his post. What is the answer to that challenge? I don't want to say that maybe – but I can do it too much – it's about the administration getting too big. I think it's right that the Foreign Minister said here a moment ago, that it's coming back to us like a prop. It is simply about the fact that we have to take this properly politically seriously. If we don't take the proper political seriousness, Nordic cooperation is gradually getting confused, and it's going to lose the whole Nordic sphere, but not least Norway as a country is going to lose. That's the gravity of the situation, and that's the seriousness of what Højbråten said, and that's also confirmed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. So in the extension of this right here in Stortinget, I want to talk about two fields that are now going to be treated at Reykjavik, and as it's important to say here in the main hall before the Reykjavik session. It is about the Nordic cooperation of course also having its points of disagreement. One point of disagreement is — it will be addressed — that all the other countries except Denmark believe that Denmark is violating the Helsinki Convention in relation to the expulsion of Nordic citizens. The Convention, as the Stortinget knows, has a specific provision in terms of people's right to social benefits in all Nordic countries without being expelled. No other Nordic countries are deporting Nordic citizens if they are entitled to social assistance in the country. Denmark does. The Danish Minister has even refused to meet in the Nordic Council bodies to explain Danish practice. This is going to come up in the session, and I'm saying it from Storting's pulpit to emphasize the seriousness of it. It is absolutely necessary if we are to have force in Nordic cooperation, if we are to resolve that kind of disagreement, and if we are to comply with the conventions that have been adopted – in this case the Convention of 14 June 1994. Another, more constructive thing that also comes up, and as the representative Lundtägen has already mentioned, but as I will also mention because I am in charge of this – what is called the Civic Committee – is linked to a common Nordic mortgage scheme. There have been major investigations about this, there has been a lot of serious work done, and I was quite startled – to say it – when I learned how many boxes are not part of the pawnbroker scheme, but are in the sewer: one billion a year – one billion a year! It is therefore proposed to establish a common Nordic panthering system, and we will come back to that at Reykjavik. But it's very important that you also say this in Stortinget, so that we get the necessary attention around it, because it'll really be an important contribution to good cooperation. And of course, it will be important for the environmental development in the Nordic countries that we do not continue to throw so many boxes outside the mortgage scheme in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e377	I would like to support what has emerged from the previous speakers here on the political power that I would like to say is lacking in the Nordic Council. It is important to have a more political impact on the work being done, if it is to have some effect, and if we are to be able to link the Nordic region more closely, so that we can both gain experience and benefit from each other. With regard to the welfare committee, this year we have concentrated particularly on studying how older people in the Nordic region can get better quality of life. In this context, there have been meetings where one has looked at the kind of action taken, precisely with a focus on mental health and quality of life. We've seen a lot of examples of how to do better. It's useful in itself, but it's also useful to carry it on. For the Nordic region, major welfare policy challenges will arise in the coming years, and cross-border cooperation and exchange of experience, perhaps especially in the field of research and implementation of technological solutions, will be of great value in meeting demographic developments. At the same time, it is important to draw up some ethical boundaries on how to provide valuable care for the elderly while at the same time ensuring that quality of life is put into focus. I believe that there should be some common goals for how to manage to give older people a worthy old age. Another issue that has had a lot of attention — and it will also come up now during the next week’s meeting — is people with rare diseases. The work on rare diagnostics needs to be strengthened significantly, and more active attention needs to be paid to Nordic plans, reforms and action plans in the health and social field. The selection will therefore support the establishment of a common Nordic action plan in line with EU recommendations. There is nothing that the Nordic Council decides, it is completely dependent on how this is taken forward. It's an important thing, because you have too small environments, and you have centres of expertise spread. But as a result, those who have rare diseases today do not receive either important diagnosis or proper treatment, so there is a lot to get to connect Nordic cooperation a lot more closely. Some attention has also been paid to youth unemployment. Although unemployment is different in the Nordic countries, we have a common labour market and common challenges. Last year, in Stockholm, we heard young people and youth politicians think about how they think they should combat unemployment and prevent school leaving. The input from that debate was further incorporated into the Globalisation Initiative project The inclusion of vulnerable groups in the labour market in the Nordic countries. Last year, the Nordic Welfare Centre was commissioned by the Nordic Council of Ministers to launch a project to promote active methods for young aliens. Nordic cooperation can be an important instrument to increase the country’s ability to develop a better employment and education policy. However, action needs to be taken; it does not just help to be around and see and hear. Although it's a value in itself, it doesn't happen very much afterwards, so it'll be necessary. The Nordic countries have a lot in common, and we benefit greatly from both work exchange, interaction and exchange of skills to meet developments in most areas of the coming years. As a representative of a border county, I also see the importance of the work done to remove frontier barriers, and also to prevent new ones from emerging. That work must be ongoing; it can never be completed. That's important, because we know that we'll stay across borders more and more, both in terms of education and work, and also in terms of the elderly. Then it's important that the systems we have within, for example, Navels and welfare schemes are adapted so that there are no gaps between two chairs when changing to live or work in different countries. I believe that the work is important, but much more political power is needed in what is being done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e397	It was the representative of Lundtägen who argued that the Nordic countries’ various EU links complicate cooperation. That's not my impression. If there's anything at all that revitalises Nordic cooperation, there's disagreement. And the fact that three out of five have a different connection actually makes it appear on the agenda that forces themselves, and that we have to take a stand for, that can create disunity. In fact, most of the time it doesn't, because the Nordics -- we get to say it in a nice way -- don't depend on anything that's possible. And so does the government sitting there, and they're going to have a compliment for that. I am not sure if the representative Lundtigen is among those who are most cheering over it, but it is now a fact that we are hanging far beyond what the EEA Agreement requires. And that's why you're doing it. On the other hand, a certain trend may be seen over time for those who have become EU members to prioritise EU cooperation somewhat more strongly than Nordic. I understand that, because EU cooperation is a machine that goes at a pace that makes the Nordic lie a little behind, to say the least. EU machinery is operating at a rather high pace, and therefore it is given a stronger priority, also because it is wider. Nevertheless, the Nordic countries participating in the EU are still actively involved in Nordic cooperation. The second thing I want to say is that I fully support the contributions of the representative, Højbräten, in order to avoid depoliticizing Nordic cooperation. It goes in both directions. It is a challenge for ministers who are very often concerned with saving money in Nordic cooperation, and obviously austerity is reducing the number of bureaucrats involved in the organisation. 87 parliamentarians do not need 1000 guest bureaucrats to hold the session. With the nitidity of Nordic co-operation, it's something you've forgotten, and here it's mentioned. But of course, it also applies to the politicians, to us – it affects us as participants in this, when it comes to promoting things. Some of the most exciting is actually where there's disagreement. I agree with Mr Kolberg in his view of the Danish treatment of Nordic citizens. At the same time, this disagreement is an exciting challenge for debate with the Danes. The problem is that they will not go into the debate. But I want a disagreement about that, that is, the interpretation of Nordic regulations is also a way of vitalizing cooperation. In any case, we get to pick up the glove and hope that the Danish government will do so as well. One of the best terms that have been used in Nordic cooperation in the years I've been away in any case is the concept of Nordic utility. It is linked to the fact that what we are doing must also benefit citizens, and that is perhaps the main reason why the work to avoid frontier barriers is a high priority. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who said that this works well, in the sense that they have organised themselves through cooperation when implementing EU/EEA regulations, in order to avoid doing so in different ways. My impression is that the work is going well. What's not going so well is the work of clearing up old obstacles. It is true that some obstacles lie in the fact that we have different tax systems, e.g., but when Norway has as much benefit from the Nordic labour market as we have now, it should be a task for us to also be a driver in removing frontier barriers that complicate workers' movement across borders. We have Swedes today as the largest immigrant group, to use that expression, a little bit in quotation marks, which has helped us a lot in a high economy. However, Swedish workers still face some problems by moving back and forth across the borders between Norway and Sweden. Here I call for a somewhat stronger force from the Minister of Cooperation towards other government councils in order to remove some unnecessary obstacles. Finally, it is a good idea that the Nordic national audits are now working together on a joint revision of the Nordic budget. Each audit looks at the participation of its country, and that's good. But if you might have seen it with Nordic eyes, that would be a good idea, and I think it's on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e418	Nordic cooperation is a comprehensive theme. Our geographic location gives closeness to our neighboring country. We have a strong community with them culturally, linguistically and not least in terms of population. We also have some of the same challenges, which both the attitude and the debate here in the Chamber have shown. I would particularly like to highlight the relationship between climate and short-term security policy. Climate change and changes in demand for natural resources lead to increasing international importance for the northern regions. Here, it is important for the Left that Norway enters into commitment agreements with other countries on the sound management of fisheries resources. It is also important that we develop northern resources for food production on the sea and land to help meet future global food needs. We also need to invest in climate and environmental research and marine resources. In particular, I challenge the government to include the Left's proposal to establish its own risk fund aimed at any adverse effects on fisheries and the environment. As far as security policy is concerned, it is important that we have clarifications about sovereignty, and that this is accelerated when the Arctic is becoming ice-free. This is where a lot has happened in the last year. In particular, it has been important for Norwegian interests to obtain clarifications around the dividing line. I will, on behalf of the Left, praise the government for the historic work that has been done there. However, it will also be important in the near future and in the years to come for Norway to maintain its presence in the northern regions, especially when those areas will become more important and important in the years to come. The left will strengthen Norwegian administration in the Svalbard zone. Norway shall be a central player in establishing stable cooperation in the north, based on international law. It will require considerable national effort. Increasing activity and presence in the north areas are necessary. The Treaty on the Law of the Sea shall form an important part of the framework, while the Arctic Council and the Northern Dimension shall be the main forums for cooperation in the region, supplemented by the Barents Council and UN organisations such as the International Maritime Organisation. The left is of the opinion that we should promote a security policy through cooperation in the north, through dialogue and reliable measures that can help resolve conflicts at the lowest possible voltage level. We need to seek understanding of Norwegian views relating to jurisdiction in the northern regions through active diplomacy also to close allies with a particular focus on promoting cooperation, sustainable resource management and a tax regime for the development of the area. We also need to strengthen Norwegian presence in and management of the Svalbard zone and, in particular, to legitimise Norway's status in the north areas by investing in settlement and infrastructure, military presence, initiatives and responsibilities for international challenges and cooperation in the north. Finally, I would like to agree with what is in the setting, that it is important to prevent new border barriers from occurring. Here, it is particularly important for Norwegian interests with good proactive work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e433	On 22 October last year, the Stortinget decided to establish a permanent delegation to the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation. The aim was precisely to strengthen Storting’s attention to developments in the Arctic. In recent years, new developments have taken place, with higher temperatures contributing to the melting of the ice and thus making the area more accessible to human activity. In view of the fact that the northern regions are the main strategic area of government, it is quite natural that the Stortinget should increase its attention to the areas. In the autumn, the 9th Arctic Parliamentary Conference was held. For the first time it was held outside the Arctic — it was organised in the European Parliament in Brussels. It is also an expression that Europe is looking northwards and wants to take an active part in the opportunities and challenges that are now becoming visible in the north. There were three very central issues that were the subject of debate when it came to the Arctic, at this conference. It was about the sustainable management of the living resources found in the Arctic region. It was about cooperation on education and research, including a follow-up to the International Polar Year, and not least the consequences of the melting of ice in the Arctic. The government is clear that it is those who live in the northern regions who must also have the most knowledge of the areas. This is why research and knowledge are important areas of activity, as is the experience of the Arctic Parliamentary Delegation when we visited Svalbard and Tromsø for a trip in winter. There is a lot of research in many fields, and the facilities for carrying out research are largely good, among other things. with the arrangements made in the New Ålesund. I am also pleased that the government for this year's budget, i.e. in 2010, proposed appropriations both for retail design and for KS2 quality assurance on a new ice-going research vessel. This is a lack of capacity today, and this is emphasised as being particularly important from many environments. I am sure that the government will follow up this work, both by keeping pace with the acquisition process and by proposing the necessary appropriations for the realization of this ship. There is a basis for highlighting the International Polar Year as a very important effort. It has produced important results and findings that have aroused great interest in many countries. The latter was clearly visible through the large participation in the International Research Conference held in Oslo/Lillestrøm in June this year. There, over 2,500 researchers from very many countries participated, and the results of the Polar Year were presented. So great a success and so important a result has been given by the concerted efforts made in the Polar Year that more are now taking place for an international polar year. This is also mentioned in the Final Declaration of the 9th Arctic Parliamentary Conference. In my view, it must be in Norway's best interest to achieve such a decade, both in terms of the attention and the interest these important areas will receive, and not least in terms of the very important results that could be achieved over ten years of coordinated research on specific challenges in the Arctic. The consideration of the rights of indigenous peoples and their ability to respect their culture through, inter alia: Traditional ways of life still have to be high on the agenda of Arctic and Circumpolar cooperation. Minority populations are under pressure because of both global climate change and the development and prevalence of the global community. The basis for the lifestyle and culture of many of these people is in many places threatened, and is increasingly happening as a result of climate change. Continued work and commitment to remedying the impacts of climate change must be a key issue in the future, in order to ensure that minority populations can also continue their culture and way of life. Knowledge is the answer to the challenges of the future, even for us who live and live here in the north. Focusing on research as a basis for the development of new knowledge and strong international networks between educational institutions are important contributions to the development of such knowledge, both to the training and recruitment of new researchers and to ensuring more and better knowledge of the specific challenges and opportunities facing us in the northernmost areas of the globe. Of course, it's important for us who live here, but it's also important for the rest of the world, for example. because the consequences of the global climate crisis will be particularly pronounced in parts of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e454	Many have been concerned with the importance of common culture in the Nordic region, the importance of the community of languages, the importance of our common sense of social structure, of value issues – short and well what is sometimes referred to as the Nordic model or the Nordic understanding. This is an important perspective and the perspective that makes the Nordic region something more than just a geographically based region, which makes Nordic cooperation more and more deeper, with a greater potential than, for example, a generally constructed northern area or a North European cooperation, although of course it is also very important. It's this potential we have to work on to find out good grips that are important to us into a globalized age. In the time of globalisation, we will have a completely different situation in which cultures meet. Meetings between cultures can be very positive. There are encounters between cultures that create new culture, that vital societies are created, societies that are creative at all levels, not only in what we often think of as a cultural sector, but also in research, economics – yes, all fields. Then it's important that we have a cultural climate that makes us, as citizens of Norway, have a cultural home path in the other Nordic countries where we can communicate the best in ourselves towards the communities of which we are part. We're going to be able to deliver our very best in our daily lives. In this context, it's clear that there's a completely different pressure, so to speak, to be part of a culture of something over 20 million people than to be part of a culture of 4 to 5 million. There are completely different ways of creating a cultural home path if you have a larger market to deal with, and if you – let's say – have a sphere around you that makes you more operational. Unfortunately, when we see that some of today's young people choose to speak English in a Nordic context, I'm sure that this will define themselves on a cultural path. No one should tell me that the discussion gets better, deeper, more insightful and more nuanced when it goes into English than it would be if it had been in a native language. Language is just one indicator of how culture works on us in a larger context. But the language is the most important part of this, and it's great to see that the language issue is a broad consensus about, not only politically in this room, but also in the Nordic countries and among those working on other Nordic issues, for example. The Norden Association. Then there's been a lot of talk about political dynamics and vitalization. I think the main route to political vitalization is about action, the ability to be concrete, raise questions and get things through. Then it's close to taking the language case as an example. In the Nordic Council we have developed a good language declaration. The follow-up is like that, and I invite the government to take more initiatives. First of all, you could see how teaching in Nordic languages works in schools. Unfortunately, there is enough substantial room for improvement, it goes down as to how it works. The next is also the way Nordic education is at the schools. Unfortunately, it has also gone down there, and unfortunately we have reason to believe that it is harelab that applies. An action plan was to be drawn up in the wake of the language declaration. We have seen little about that action plan, not only in Norway, but also in the other Nordic countries. We're talking about Nordic TV cooperation. There are important initiatives that are basically about creating a common Nordic public, not just having a starting point for looking at our different TV programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e473	There are many initiatives that have brought new dynamism to Nordic cooperation. Relations with the neighbouring countries of the Nordic countries, including North-West Russia and the Baltic Sea region are strengthened. Strengthening cooperation with Belarus. In particular, the initiatives of the prime ministers have contributed to the further development of Nordic cooperation. The joint Nordic globalisation work has been intensive, has been a high priority since 2007, and has contributed to priorities. The top research initiative, which is part of this, is the largest joint research effort that has ever been launched, accounting for a total of SEK 480 million in Swedish. As many have seen in the debate, border barriers are an important work done in Nordic cooperation. The Border Obstacle Forum was set up, and we've managed to clear up several border barriers. Time doesn't go, President, but I have a lot to say, so I'd like to take the time I get.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e480	You just have to talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e483	Border barriers have been cleared by the road, but many remain. That is why it is important, I think, that we have extended the mandate of the Border Obstacle Forum to the end of 2012. However, as others have said in the debate, it is important to prevent new frontier barriers from emerging. This is why joint initiatives have also been taken to prevent border barriers arising from the implementation of the EU Directive. These include: a meeting to be held now during these days, among those working with legislation. But I am also concerned that we are not able to remove all border barriers. Some of us just have an interest in staying standing. Social security legislation may be an example of the fact that in some cases it would be natural to have some different rules. We have a Nordic Social Security Convention that we are now working on renegotiating to adapt it to today's rules. Language is the basis for good cooperation in the Nordic region. Without common language understanding, there will be no sustainable Nordic cooperation. I have seen that the committee has noticed that the monitoring shows that we are not doing enough in Norway to give priority to neighbouring languages. The Ministry of Knowledge has therefore asked the Education Directorate to include the reading of Swedish and Danish texts in the work on reading training. It is now working to find relevant texts for the years in question. Language pilots are a means of motivating primary school teachers in working with neighbouring language teaching. One of several measures in the field of languages is the North plus Junior and the North plus Language and Culture Programme, which support actions aimed at children and young people. I would also like to mention and praise the activities of the Nordic Association, which helps to stimulate increased understanding of languages. We will come back with a status report on a language declaration in 2011. Several have been in Belarus. Belarus is high on the agenda of Nordic cooperation. Several activities are targeted at Belarus, but cooperation with Belarus is demanding. Several representations in Belarus report demanding employment. The Nordic Council of Ministers has chosen to move forward carefully to bring everyone along, but I can tell you that we aim to strengthen our presence in Belarus by the fact that the head of our office in Vilnius will be present in Minsk a few days a month on a regular basis. There have also been some who have been involved in the Nordic small crafts. At its meeting in October, the Ministers for Education adopted a strategy plan for the period 2011 to 2013. Norway has taken on the job of leading a project to strengthen work on small professional subjects, and the Education Directorate will have the executive role in this project. I am concerned that we do not allow Nordic cooperation to become rigid in accustomed forms of work. We need to strengthen the work with the strategic devices and look critically at our forms of work. That's why we ministers have had some informal meetings where we've also discussed work forms, and we'll continue that job in Iceland next week. Then I'm glad the committee has found it useful that we have some joint meetings. I think that kind of meeting can also be extended to several trade ministers and representatives of the Stortinge in the various trade committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e501	I would like to make my contribution to what a unanimous committee says about the importance of reducing border barriers between the Nordic countries. I am pleased that the government has stressed this so clearly, and that the Minister of Cooperation has underlined the responsibility of the departments, both to help solve existing border barriers and to avoid the accidental emergence of new ones. A lot of good work has been done in this regard. An example of this is the removal of frontier barriers in higher education. It is great that the agreement on access to higher education has been extended by three new years. In Hedmark, which is what I know best, many people cross the border of working or doing business. Many face obstacles that create challenges in everyday life, and in this respect I must mention the importance of the Moroculian Border Service. The activities of the border services are cross-border and cross-border cooperation in order to help people and businesses to the maximum degree of friction free from the Swedish-Norwegian border, thereby contributing to economic activity and growth. After all, the activities are directly at the heart of what was behind the establishment of the 1954 Nordic Agreement on a common Nordic labour market. They do a good job of facilitating people and businesses that will have economic activity and growth on both sides of the border, and they are important to us in identifying frontier barriers. Thanks to the composition of the Border Service, with representatives of the authorities from both countries, an arena is created where the actors concerned meet directly and solution-orientedly discuss the different circumstances and laws of the respective countries. Although everyone agrees that the border service is doing a good job, there has been a lot of uncertainty about the financing of the business, especially from the Norwegian side. This uncertainty must be brought to an end. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee points out that funding for the Border Service should be maintained, even if the activities should receive funds from the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers to solve specific border obstacles. My message is that we must get away from uncertain and more or less improvised solutions and into a firm, predictable allocation. The border service carries out missions at national and international level, and it cannot be expected that local actors will finance the activities in the future. There is also a difficult work situation for those who work there. They must constantly deal with one year's budget, and they never know whether the many different actors who are currently on the split-up team will be up to next year. Let me remind you that, along the Norwegian-Swedish border, 50 Norwegian and Swedish municipalities meet. Thousands of Swedes and Nordics cross the annual limit for finding work or for other reasons. We who have Europe's longest border between our countries should also have Europe's best cross-border cooperation. Finally, a few words about transportation. In the message we can read about plans for an extension of E16 eastward, via Hönefoss, Gardermoen, Kongsvinger and the Swedish border and to the east coast of Sweden. The Swedish Road Safety Agency and the Swedish Road Safety Agency have started cooperation to assess whether a joint effort should be undertaken to further develop parts of this road in the border area between Norway and Sweden. This is an important matter that we just have to follow up. In the case of rail transport, as stated in the notification, there are no major barriers between Norway and Sweden. But we have some small challenges left, such as: to order tickets online from Oslo to Stockholm. Today, in fact, this is not possible. Once I'm on the railway, I can't stop mentioning the importance of upgrading the Oslo-Stockholm route. Unfortunately, the train connection is too bad today. We have to be able to do something about that in this cooperation. This route can definitely compete with airplanes if we reduce travel time, which in turn will be a good contribution to climate and environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e529	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e532	Over a number of years, cooperation between neighbouring countries in the north and in the Arctic has been central to the region I represent. Our northern part of the country has always served on, and contributed to, a close cooperation with our neighbouring countries in the north. Cooperation covers several hundred years and has always stimulated the growth and development of the countries involved. My belief is that this development would not have been possible without the cultural community that is among the different peoples of the north. People-to-people cooperation, language and social knowledge about each other have made the sharing of, among other things, natural resources in the north. The main challenge for further cultural and close cooperation in my region is based on one important prerequisite, linguistic knowledge. Finnmark County is a trilingual state in which Sami, Kvinsk/Finnish and Norwegian are the three main languages. Language has been and is one of the most important tools for interaction in the north. The value of being able to communicate in a common arena should, in my opinion, be valued very highly in future Nordic cooperation. The reason for this is that the language carries identity and common cultural understanding, and the language also facilitates United Reality perceptions. An example of an institution engaged in language development and training with a Nordic dimension is the Sámi University of Kautokeino. Higher education is active in cross-border language development. Its focus and task is primarily the Sami language of the region, as teaching and training of teaching students in Sami. Since its inception, the university has had an increased intake of students from Sweden and Finland. This is a development that must be seen as very positive for Nordic language cooperation, such as language cooperation. build up under the objectives set out in the Nordic Language Declaration. The University of Tromsø is another example that over time has acquired broad linguistic competence in Finnish, Sami and Russian. An increased focus on exchanges of students in the Nordic region and organised study schemes will, as I see it, strengthen cooperation and language development among the Nordic population. Therefore, greater emphasis should be placed in future on language training, language exchange at all professional levels, as set out in the Nordic Language Declaration. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of the Nordic dimension in neighbouring language cooperation also having a special focus on minority languages in the Nordic region. It is particularly important for cultural development in my region, but also for enhanced cross-border interaction. The organisation of language centres, with a particular focus on the Finnish-Ugrian languages, will, in my view, strengthen minority languages in the region and further develop the cultural community. In summary, my message in this debate is that language action and future language policy will be one of the main prerequisites for further fruitful and constructive Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e549	In addition to what the Committee says in the vote on the Stoltenberg report, I would like to address a point mentioned in the communication, namely cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries. I recently attended a meeting of the Baltic Council and the Baltic Assembly, and there was a great deal of interest in the themes and proposals raised by the Stoltenberg report. The Baltic Foreign Ministers also paid close attention to the proposals made by the Group of Wise Men, consisting of former Danish Minister of Defence Søren Gade and former Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Birkavs, which are due to be presented in August and which will actually be held at the Nordic Council's session next week. The proposals are, to a certain extent, a continuation of the thematics of the Stoltenberg report, but may first and foremost be an expression of the desire of the two ministers for a broadly intensified Nordic-Baltic cooperation. It is also in line with the targets set by the Baltic countries in 2010, for increased strategic cooperation with the Nordic countries both at government level and at parliamentary level. The latter is known in particular by the cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Nordic Council, but also through annual meetings between the Baltic and Nordic parliamentary presidents and the Foreign Affairs Committees. I assume that the government will keep Stortinget and the Nordic Council delegation constantly informed of the work on implementing the themes of the Stoltenberg report. This does not mean that we immediately embrace all thirteen points, but that at least it should be worked on as a thematic area and, of course, also how the proposals of the Wise Men Group will be implemented. The representative of Kolberg took up Denmark's alleged breach of a convention provision. Then I would just like to stress from this point that it is not an objective fact that Denmark's practice of the residence provisions for social assistance recipients without the slightest residence time is a violation of the Convention. That's what the disagreement is about. But I share Mr Kolberg's view that the Danish Minister for Integration Birthe Rønn Hornbech has not dealt with this very wisely. She has not met up in consultation. She has not wanted to meet the sub-committee at the Nordic Council, and she will not go to Iceland next week, as I understand it. It is a negation of the cooperation in the Nordic Council. I do not understand that a minister risks Denmark's reputation on a matter as insignificant as this. I am also pleased that the Committee has also said that we should focus on the political core of Nordic cooperation and make sure that the assembly does not become bureaucratic. I see that as a marshalling earth as a delegate when I meet in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e566	In the last year, I have had the pleasure of attending meetings in the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Cooperation, the so-called BSPC. The BSPC is the parliamentary counterpart of the Government's Baltic Council, where Norway currently holds the Presidency. Since its establishment in 1991, as a forum for political dialogue between the countries of the Baltic Sea region, the influence and scope of the BSPC have increased considerably. Today, the BSPC brings together parliamentarians from eleven national parliaments, eleven regional parliaments and five parliamentary organisations. In addition to the Baltic States, Russia plays an important role in the organisation and currently holds the Vice-President. The BSPC acts as a bridge builder and contributes to good dialogue between the countries that are members of the EU and those that are not. The BSPC is also currently discussing whether to grant Belarus observer status in the organisation. The financial crisis in the last few years has affected countries differently – we know that. In the BSPC, we also notice this. In the dialogue conducted in the BSPC, sustainable development is also important in economic policy. That is why we need to follow closely what is happening in this area, so that the major economic challenges facing the Baltic countries do not go beyond the positive progress achieved in many areas of Baltic cooperation. The Norwegian Presidency on the government side has chosen maritime policy and human trafficking as its priority areas. These are the same areas as the BSPC has designated as its areas of activity. I think it is very positive, and I think this is the first time that there is a convergence of views on the areas to be given priority. The BSPC has set up its own working groups for the two themes, with the participation also here from the Stortinget. In my opinion, the working groups have been significantly informed of the challenges of the integrated maritime policy, both in terms of infrastructure, such as ports, and the environment, and not least of the burden of total maritime activity in the Baltic Sea. Also in the field of trafficking in human beings, the working group has done a considerable amount of work to be completed by the next session in Finland. Finally, I have a prayer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When Norway's Presidency period in the Baltic Sea Council is over, it would be of great help in our further work in the BSPC to receive a summary of the President's Year, as would an annual report showing how the government follows up the BSPC resolutions. This will be of common interest and inspiration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e577	Let me start with the simplest first, namely to give tribute to the representatives of Kristiansen and Nordtun for the excellent work they have done as case rapporteurs in these complex matters. It's a good job, and it shows that you've worked hard and efficiently to get a big deal behind you. Otherwise, it might have been exciting to sum up the debate so far as to say that cooperation is about no matter what is too small, and no matter what is too big. Because with all possible respect, there has been quite a wide range of things that have been mentioned here today. Now it might be reasonable and timely, but I think it's a challenge to participate in different advice, to have a clear awareness of why you're in it. What do you want to achieve with that? Because I hope it's not like that you're in different councils and selections because the biggest representatives need things to fill their days with, or to have an office on the toe. These must be clear, conscious objectives for participation. It has to be that it can be verified, discussed and put on board in a way from this pulpit. That way, you make clear the value of what you're doing and what you want to achieve. Words and unparliamentary concepts have been used as ‘consultation’. Of course, I'm not going to do that here, but sometimes there's a discussion about the justification of all of the things that big business representatives are involved in. I think that's actually positive, because once you do that, you also ask questions about what's going on, and about the quality of it. And if you conclude that this makes sense, you must at least take responsibility for contributing to the senses of the different councils. In that way, I think it's positive. It may also be that there are different areas of interest that capture individuals. Language, of course, is an important factor in making things happen. If you can't talk, of course it'll be hard. As others have experienced today, coastal security cooperation is important in relation to the Arctic – of course it will. And the better you can make things work together, the better the totality of it will be. There has also been talk about frontier barriers. There has been talk about the need to have them as well as the need for what is problematic. Then I think it's important that you once again have a consciousness of that. Some things are clearly fiscal. Look at the charging system here in the country compared to what is on the other side of Svinesund, for example.Oh, my God! It is clear that policy would like to have a charging system here in Norway, for example. The European Union does not have because it is considered appropriate. At the same time, it will not be surprising to note the increased border trade between Norway and Sweden, for example. But since it is a misguided policy, those who want that kind of policy must take responsibility for it. And those who want a different policy need to do what they can to combat that kind of policy. In this way, this is a good debate, although it is diverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e592	First, I want to support both Kolberg and Højbrätt in what they said instead in terms of political power. I want the Nordic Council to be a political arena where we can participate in the different contexts and address many current political issues, both those common to the Nordic countries and those relating to other countries. Some are controversial and difficult, while others are more concerned with advice and tips that we can use in our daily political work. I have had the pleasure of being a participant from the Nordic Council to the BSPC group on trafficking, i.e. trafficking in human beings. It is a theme that is relevant to all those who are involved, whether the country has it as a problem or the country is what exports the problems. The group gave its half-year report in Mariehamn, and we're going to last almost a year. But I think it's right to mention it from here, to show the diversity of what the Nordic Council is doing, and that what we're doing is important to our citizens' everyday lives. Many people are working on this issue — both at ministerial level, within the EU and within other international groups. One might ask himself, do we get anything more by putting down another group? My answer is a clear yes. Our group is going through thematically and providing advice on what we can agree on, and perhaps we will come out with a joint proposal for a law that you can recommend to change. Well, it's so important at regular intervals to raise themes and show what this really is about -- it's the slavery and exploitation of other people of our time. And we're not just talking about prostitution. We're talking about labour, we're talking about the sale of organs, and we're talking about the sale of children. All trafficking in human beings is the theme it's about. It shows the size and scope of the theme, and it shows how important it is to cooperate in the Nordic region. Through political cooperation in the Nordic region and with the Baltic States, we put it on the agenda. We might be able to find solutions that will improve the situation of those affected, and the cooperation that we're doing here by setting up different groups shows that we want to do something about this; we want to find solutions. That's how we can do it in a lot of areas where the shoe is pressing, and where we have common challenges that the Nordic Council can contribute to finding. We're sitting at the same table, we're discussing, and we're learning from each other. We're in front of an exciting week in Iceland. We have a proposal for a common Nordic register for health professionals to be included there, a proposal that I hope will be accepted well and get a majority. It is a challenge for ministers to follow this up, and I expect that if the proposal is adopted, it will lead to something that we can see in a few years' time. The summit had many good challenges for us in taking political power. We have to do that, and I fully agree with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e609	I would like to thank the Minister of Cooperation for a constructive response in many ways to some of the challenges I raised in my speech. I have noticed that the government primarily looks to the Minister of Education for Nordic language cooperation. So it's under her department the initiatives the government takes, mostly. That's excellent. It's an important place to start. But now it is the case that the language policy is under the Ministry of Culture, and the Minister of Cooperation could also have a little conversation with the Minister of Culture about the issues that are very central, for example. in the case of terminology. Technical terminology was an area we were better at in the past. There are parts of the structures it's about, confused, and today there's a need to take a roof there. It's a greeting she can bring to the Minister of Culture. With regard to the Nordic language coordinator, who has come as a result of the convention, I also think it would be important to look at the working conditions and opportunities of the language coordinator to actually do a good job. A few days ago, we had a debate in this Chamber in the Questionnaire, which relates to the translations of EU documents – also a practical, perhaps not so big, but actually a very important question in order to get the language development in the prep. Here I have made it clear that today there is actually no systematic coordination of the linguistic work between any Scandinavian country, nor between Sweden and Denmark, both of which have their translations done in the Commission. Here's the thing to tackle – and this really goes to the Foreign Minister directly, because it's under his department this is actually happening. So in conclusion: in the Nordic Council of Culture we work a lot on public service issues, i.e. general broadcasting issues. It's been up a lot of times before. An important theme has been how we can view each other's television programmes. I want to draw up a new dimension in it, which is about how we can create a new public, a common Nordic public. Many have condemned it north and down. I just remind you of the excellent conclusion of the Scavlan on Friday evenings, which actually shows us that a common public is possible if you only attack it correctly. I hope the government will look constructively at the proposal we will come up with from the Committee on Culture, which is about a new approach to Nordic TV cooperation, which will just try to reach that perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e622	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Three, four, five. [[Footing, see page 456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e638	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e645	There are three agreements Stortinget today is invited to ratify. There are two agreements concerning the financing of financial assistance to some EU countries. One concerns the three EFTA/EEA countries and the other relates to the direct aid granted by Norway. Furthermore, we have an agreement on access to EU countries for Norwegian exports of fish and crustaceans. The financing agreements mainly apply to former Eastern bloc countries, which are still far from being able to get an economic health report after 40 years of communist mismanagement. Norway shall contribute a total of 14 billion over a period of five years. kr here. There's a lot of money, but it's also about countries with a total of well over 100 million inhabitants. Norway shall contribute under 3 billion. kr. per year for these countries. From the perspective of billions of support to small municipalities through local government funding in Norway, this is an agreement that is definitely to live with, and the Committee therefore recommends that the Stortinget ratify these two agreements. Both agreements contain clauses to comply with the principle of sound financial management. Norway shall have transparency so that it is possible to control the use of the money. We know that many, not to say most, EU countries in the south and east have failed to develop good enough tools to combat corruption. Transparency International’s 2010 corruption index was published on Monday this week. The worst-off EU countries have a level of corruption in line with countries such as the United States and Japan. Brazil, Cuba, El Salvador and China. It would be pointless to spend billions of dollars on development measures in backward EU countries if money were to go away in corruption. The funds will be used efficiently, so that the current grant schemes become unnecessary in a few years' time. It is important that the government imposes effective control here, and I would encourage the government to report this back to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion. The Committee also recommends the third agreement, but it has some critical comments on the export of fish to the EU, and it imposes an obligation on the government to use all relevant instruments to improve market access for Norwegian export fish. This is important for Norwegian business and economics, and also here the government has a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e656	Two days ago, I had the opportunity to sign the first MoU, Memorandum of Understanding, with one of the countries receiving the EEA funding. It was in Slovakia, one of the smaller countries among the 12, but one of the countries that over the next few years will receive 80 million. euro from Norway. It's going to be around 600 to 700 million. Over five years. So we see that it's a lot of money. The representative Myhre says on behalf of the Committee that there is an agreement ‘to live with’. I agree, but I think we're also going to be a little enthusiastic about the agreement, because it's going to be one of the most important material footprints Norway is going to have in these countries in the years to come. This is why the government is concerned that we are now able to follow up these agreements with good cooperation agreements with each country. The agreement with Slovakia is detailed, responds to Slovak needs and wishes and conforms to Norwegian general interests. This is what we have to do with the other countries, so that there is a good focus and input to cooperation. This is not traditional assistance where Norway picks out the areas we want to support. It is a very unique mechanism where the money is made available, there is agreement on main areas, so detailed agreements with each country, and then project applications are to come from the countries, and we want to see more and more Norwegian partners with. We've never had a similar tool. This is a further development from the last five years. There's something quite new we're seeing now, and I've heard through the visit to Slovakia that this gives considerable attention – enthusiasm in some circles – and it's up to political Norway, economic Norway and Organisation Norway to take advantage of these opportunities that it gives us. We look forward to signing similar agreements with the other 11 countries. Then the representative Myhre is absolutely right that we have challenges of control and audit. I believe that this is thoroughly explained in the proposition, and the committee has devoted much, duly, time to it. The invitation to come back with our experiences, given by the representative, is a signal we interpret that an aggregate greatness wants, and so do we. I think we have to admit that it's never risk free to engage in the kind of business that we're doing now. But admitting it is no excuse that we should not be very alert, both in the way we engage the control authorities in the country in question and in the way we follow up on the part of the Norwegian authorities. In conclusion, I would say that in relation to the other commitments for the development of the new Member States that come from the European Union itself, I believe that we are sitting here on a very unique resource, as I say, which we can use and market. I also hope that the representatives of the Great Britain will take time to visit specific projects and give them the attention they deserve. With regard to the chapter fish, which is part of what we are dealing with here today, I would say that we have special challenges here because we are not a member of the European Union. This negotiating result has given us, despite the very difficult starting point of the negotiations, improved market access in important areas. Of course, we will always look for opportunities to make them even better, and I am glad that the Storting is impatient in this area and keeps it clearly marked in its comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e680	The reason why I take the floor in this case is not that there is any disagreement between the parties about the proposal for a decision. But in the setting, an incursion has made a mistake in one of the notes. It's on page 6, last paragraph, last sentence. It says: ‘In this way, the Committee considers that adequate market access for fishery products should also be seen in the context of possible inclusion of agricultural products in the EEA Agreement.’;» It is a sentence that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre should not have been in, but by an incursion we are, and I thought it was good to inform them about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e690	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e708	I see from the participation in the hall that this might be perceived as a slightly narrower issue. But in reality, there is a problem that is not just about the field of employment and social affairs, because it is about the fundamental question: how do we use our resources? We take in taxes from Norwegian citizens, and then we also have to use resources in a good enough way. Not least we have to make sure that the resources do what they have to do. When the Right entered the Ministry of Knowledge in 2001, it is reported that the then State Council, Kristin Clemet, was trying to get an overview of the school situation. Then there were more than enough numbers of PCs per student, the number of students per teacher, the number of teachers per student and, of course, the funds for refurbishment, etc. But when Kristin Clement asked if anyone knew what the students were actually learning in school, it became silent. It's possible that the anecdote isn't quite historically accurate, but it's equally fully illustrative. In fact, a lot of political debate ends up being a debate on the level of appropriations, rather than what you actually get out of the money. There are two important principles for this debate. The first is, of course, respect for Norwegian citizens as taxpayers. A normal average family of two adults and two children who have a total gross income of NOK 713,000, i.e. a normal annual income in Norway, and pay normal taxes, uses approx. 14 years to pay 1 million. kr in tax. It puts the debate in perspective a little bit, and that means that when you think you can scald and choose with millions as if there wasn't hard work behind it, it's wrong, and it shows a lack of respect for the citizens. The second consideration and principle is, of course, the consideration of the users of the public services, so that people do not become throwballs in the system, that the measures they put in actually have an effect and help to meet the objective of getting more people from a passive social welfare system and into work, if they have the opportunity to do so. The labour and social field spends well over 300 billion dollars. kr per year. The field includes some of the most important public welfare schemes, such as disability pension and sick pay. At the same time, there is a strong ambition not only to pay out money, but also to make a political contribution to getting more from social security and work. The question is whether we can do it, whether we use the resources in a good enough way, and what incentives lie in the system and help meet the political ambitions. I want to use some examples to illustrate the problem. Firstly, there is a lack of information on several key issues. For many years, the following questions have been asked to the Ministry: What are the performance targets for labour market measures? How many of those taking part in labour market measures go to work? And how many remain in the labour market after one, three, and five years? It always comes back the same answer, and that answer is in many ways symptomatic. The Ministry of Labour writes: The question is interpreted as answering the target figures for the implementation of labour market measures. But the question we're asking is what the labour market measures achieve. And then you answer labour market measures. It almost gives the impression of ‘good day, man — axe shaft!’. The Ministry further states that they have not had the opportunity to organise data in order to answer questions about the number of participants in labour market measures who remain in work after one, three and five years. In other words, that means we don't know. We do not have information about how many we are able to get into work permanently, and how many remain in work several years later. That's the third year in a row we haven't been given an answer to this question. Nor can the Ministry respond to the number of participants in labour market measures who went to work after the end of labour market measures in 2009. There are many other examples as well. For example, no one knows – as far as I have been able to figure out – nor does Nav know, to what extent the occasion lies in the law to use financial sanctions against, for example. people receiving social assistance are actually being exploited locally. There's no good number to recover, simply. This means that, as politicians, we also lack tools and lack transparency. The second problem is maybe the most serious one, but it's just as closely related to the first one. The lack of information on that department and Nav may also point to a more fundamental problem for the sector, namely that the incentives in the systems are confusing, at worst insane. In other words, when we, as politicians, have a governance dialogue, or send control signals, it also affects how the systems work. If we ask for crazy things, we also get systems that risk delivering on the wrong basis. I'm probably allowing myself an anecdote, and I'm aware that anecdotes are only anecdotes, but they can still be illustrative. I have visited many local Nav offices. On one of them I asked what they felt they were measured for – that is, what they were trying to achieve. The manager then replied that they were primarily trying to fill the number of action sites they had been allocated. In other words, the goal was to fill out the action areas they were allocated, not to ask themselves the questions: What kind of places? What kind of quality do the places have? Or, what effect does it have for users? We sit centrally and decide the number of action places to take in Norway. These are then assigned to Nav through an allocation letter centrally, and then distributed across the country. Which guidelines are used for that distribution, I don't know. However, the crucial thing is that action areas are an instrument, not an objective. If my anecdote votes and highlights a larger issue, it is a problem if the system is designed to make it think that it is about delivering in the number of action areas, because that's what Nav centrally asks about, and that's what the big politicians, i.e. we who are heads of the sector, are concerned about. Then there is a challenge as to what kind of incentives are contained in our control signals and in our management systems. I also have a list of the target numbers that a local Nav office reports every month, i.e. what they are asked to report on. There's a terrible lot of things here. There are very many questions about how many meetings have been conducted, how many have been followed up – without specifying them – and the number of people who have either received debt advice or are beneficiaries of economic social assistance. But none of these measures are about results. I am aware, of course, that Nav also has a focus on dissemination into work, but it is not clear from the objectives that local Nav offices are asked to report in this overview. What you actually achieve seems to be under-priority and little focus on. I think this is symptomatic of a lot of the political debate in Norway. In many areas, we're very concerned about how much money we spend, how much resources we put in, how many actions or programs we can implement, but we're less concerned about what we actually get out of the funds. Often, the political debate is also reduced to questions about the level of funding, the level of action or the level of activity rather than about what actually works, about what actually makes people's lives better. This may be the case, for example: an aid debate will be reduced to a question of how much per cent is spent on the state budget, a cultural debate can be reduced solely to questions of appropriations, and a poverty debate to only a question of how many billions have been put into the bet. The position can boast of its bet, and then the opposition can overtake and turn the position in its head with more money, without putting the qualitative discussion – the way to lift people out of poverty – into the main seat. The point, of course, is that it is not wrong to spend money. But it's precisely because it's right to spend money on these arrangements that we have to be nitite, real and constantly busy checking and checking that the money is spent in a good enough way. It is not that resources and results are automatically linked. It's actually possible to use a lot while you're doing little.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e747	I want to start by thanking the representative for a very important interpellation. I agree that it may be sad that there are so few who are here listening to this important debate. Contributing to the entry into work of all persons with disabilities is a high priority task in the field of labour and welfare policy. To achieve the ambitious goal of working for all, we rely on good and targeted instruments. There's a lot going on in Norway to get people to work. Key elements of a high-level employment policy are well-organised working life, a well-functioning wage-forming system, a skilled workforce and active labour market policies. I believe that we have succeeded in employment policy. We are among the OECD countries with the highest proportion of the population in employment — not least employment in Norway is high among women and among the elderly. Even during the troubled international economic cycle we have experienced since 2008, the Norwegian labour market has proved to be robust and adaptable. Norway is the country in Europe that has experienced this financial crisis with the least fall in economic activity and the least increase in unemployment. While the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 3.3 pst. in Norway in July, it was 9.6 p.m. in the EU. The representative lacks information on the effects of labour market measures and asks if I want to start systematic performance measurements of the measures used. I can give the following short answers before I go any further in depth: We have good information about the transition to work for different groups of jobseekers. Both the current Nav statistics and a series of analyses provide information on how to deal with different Nav user groups. The labour market measures are assessed on an ongoing basis by Nav in relation to the allocation of measures to individuals. The Ministry very often evaluates measures at startup, and later according to needs. The impact assessments consistently show that participation in labour market measures helps to facilitate the transition to normal working life. However, there is no reason to suggest that the strength of these effects varies. I'll come back to that. One of the main aims of the establishment of Nav is to get more of those who are out of work into work and activity. In order to manage this responsibilities in the best possible way, it is necessary to identify the outcome of Nav’s follow-up work to different groups of job seekers. A key indicator in this context is how former users of Nav's services adapt to the labour market. We have good access to information about the transition to work, including for people with disabilities. Let me then mention the most important thing: Firstly, Nav has a monthly statistics such as: shows the transition to work six months after they have changed their Nav status, e.g. after they have stopped being registered as fully unemployed or are no longer registered with a disability. The choice of six months is somewhat arbitrary, but it is a common period to use in evaluations, both in Norway and abroad. The background is that the main effect of a measure must be expected to have materialised within six months. The new statistics provide us with good opportunities to keep up with the transition to work among different groups on the labour market. For example, the statistics from Nav show that 44 pst. of the persons with reduced working capacity in January, who were no longer registered with this status in February, had entered regular employment in July. The corresponding figures for jobseekers were 60 pst. Secondly, this year's Nav will carry out an annual follow-up study which will give a more comprehensive picture of the relationship between former Nav users and the world of work. In addition to stating whether you have entered work, are in education, or are receiving social security benefits, a description of your employment is also requested. This enables Nav to analyse whether former users of its services come into permanent or temporary jobs, full-time or part-time jobs, and how relevant the job is to qualifications and job demands. A pilot study has been carried out and the Labour and Welfare Unit is now working on a full scale survey. By having good administrative records of employed persons, we will be able, if necessary, to obtain information on the status of the labour market one to two years or longer after the completion of measures. Thirdly, both the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Working and Welfare Unit carry out adhoc analyses of transition rates for work for different groups of Nav services. An analysis of the transition to work for those who had ceased participation in an ordinary labour market measure was carried out not later than the summer. Here it was found that the proportion of jobs was three percentage points higher among those who had completed an ordinary labour market measure, compared to those who had been completely unemployed. In particular, the shift to employment was highest among policyholders with the following characteristics: long-term unemployed, non-Norwegian and those who had taken part in the measure: wage subsidies. Fourth, labour market measures are systematically evaluated by researchers. However, even with many evaluations, good statistics and advanced methods, there is still uncertainty about the strength of the effects of labour market measures. The challenge here, as in many other socio-scientific evaluations, is that those assigned to action are not randomly chosen, but are generally different from those not receiving action, and often in a way that is not fully informed by researchers. It is therefore difficult for researchers to distinguish between the effects of the action itself and the importance of different personal characteristics. This problem of selection makes it difficult to use the research results in policy-making. While participants in wage subsidies have a greater transition to employment than participants in public employment measures, this may be due to differences in measures, it may also be due to differences between participants. However, we have some reason to believe in the light of these impact assessments: labour market measures seem relatively strong for people with health problems, weak formal qualifications, long periods of unemployment behind them, are between 30 and 50 years of age and/or have a migrant background. Furthermore, we know that labour market measures that aim to improve the job search process itself seem to be the most effective. In particular, with regard to the effects of labour market measures on people with disabilities, research indicates that labour market measures contribute to a significant increase in job probability and that the impact has a significant duration. The most comprehensive and refined evaluation carried out in Norway has been carried out by the Frischsenter on the initiative of the Ministry. It showed that the average job probability increased by about eight percentage points. Acquiring knowledge of the functioning of labour market measures is part of the current labour market policy, both at the individual Nav Office, in the Labour and Welfare Directorate and in the Ministry. The government has also reduced a separate sample, led by Knut Brofoss, to review the measures in the screened sector. The Committee shall deliver its report in December 2011. Let me conclude by assureing the representative of Røe Isaksen that the department will continue to monitor the progress of Nav's services and take initiatives for new analyses and research in the future. Efforts to help the unemployed and people with disabilities return to normal working life are one of the most useful and profitable things we can do. It's useful for the individual, and it's profitable for society. It's not just something I mean, there's some knowledge review overall that provides a basis for claiming.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e792	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good answer, an answer that was longer than what we get from the Ministry of Labour when we ask for something in connection with the budgets. Nevertheless, I do not think the Council of State gets into the real issue. One thing is that in some central areas you don't have enough numbers. I also understand the social science difficulty of making good enough analysis, but I don't think it can be an excuse not to try to compare different types of action. You don't have enough numbers on that. There are also insufficient figures on the long-term impact of different interventions. We simply don't know what keeps people in work for a long time, what makes people maybe in work a shorter period and come back again. Another thing is what kind of instruments are actually used in Norwegian social offices. We still have discussions in this Chamber about, for example: obligation of activity. There is today full occasion according to the law to use both whip and carrot. You have e.g. the opportunity to say that benefits will be provided if you do not meet at specific meetings, follow a specific plan or something. It's impossible to get an overview of how much it actually uses. So the main point is, what kind of control signals is the Nav system getting? And my point with the overview from a local Nav office is that they seem to be managed – based on this overview – only on instruments. It is in itself right and proper to ask how many dialogue meetings are held, and how many are involved in economic advice, and all these things. It gives you an important overview. But as control signals, it's only about input, nothing about output. When you have anecdotal -- yes, let's call it -- evidence, which also says that the Nav systems also perceive that they are controlled at the very level of activity and not at content, I wonder if you have a problem with the system. So, if I'm going to pass on a question to the Council of State in this round as well, it would be: Does the Council of State agree that Nav as a directorate, but also the Nav offices, are too little covered by target management – that they should be asked what they actually deliver, how many they convey, instead of being guided by tools and resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e807	I just want to allow myself to come back a little bit to the first post from the interpellant. I can assure the interpellant that I'm probably just as much, and more, concerned that we're going to know what we're doing with 7.3 billion. kr of the State budget in the case of labour market measures. I'm systematically working on that. We know, as I've been through a lot now, a lot. We know a lot. Some of what I'm concerned about, and that I showed that we're now starting to evaluate, is just to see where people are. One thing is the impact goals, which we know we have some methodological problems associated with, but it's only important to know where people are after half a year, after a year, after two years. Although there might be a lot of reasons why they're where they are, it says something. And we're now working on that. So I think this shows that knowledge is important, and it shows that this basically works according to the intentions. It was said that most Nav offices just feel that they need to fill up their actions. It's a reality I can't recognize in. It's a reality I don't recognize here from Stortinget either, where I'm almost constantly confronted with the fact that the different states don't get enough action. My clear impression and my sense of reality is that there is a desire for, and a conscious relationship with, the use of measures at the various Nav offices. But I very much agree that we must constantly be critical of how we use our resources, and therefore I am also concerned about, as the interpellant himself said, that measures are just a repair. The most important thing is to ensure that we do not need labour market measures. Therefore, this government has also pursued a systematic labour market policy that has made unemployment low, and we have been in the budget for this year to do what we can to continue to reduce sick leave and ensure that drop-outs in high school are reduced, and we have also been involved in the drug sector. These are the sectors that lead to the need for more action. But I feel that the debate I'm going to meet is that you want more action, and that I get criticism that we have slightly adjusted the level of action. I agree with what the interpellant says – that it is important to control goals. Everybody must be. It almost doesn't matter to ask that question, because of course you agree with that. That's something I'm working systematically on now, precisely in relation to Nav – that we're going to get a lot more qualitative targets in terms of what they're going to deliver on. I just think you have to be aware that Nav has been through a big and – I don't have to say it anymore, because I've said it many times – comprehensive reform. Getting the organisational processes in place has been important, getting delivered, making sure people get social benefits on time, etc., has been important. Now we're there. Now, one of my most important challenges is just to make sure that we get good governance on the targets so that we achieve what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e822	I think it is affordable that the interpellant is concerned with measuring results. It is important that we systematically evaluate the many and different measures of labour market policy in order to learn from them and gain experience. And we do. The Minister of Labour has just explained the relatively extensive evaluation and research work being carried out in this field. Except that the researchers are also going to have something to do with it, I'm inclined to think that we might evaluate most of the team without knowing exactly what we're going to use the evaluations for. To some extent, I also think that researchers are used to open doors. Moreover, I fully agree with the interpellant that we need to look at what results we are measuring and how relevant they are. To my mind, for example, it is quite obvious that we need a diversity of labour market and rehabilitation measures from country to country to meet the many and very different needs of the labour market. I will not underestimate the need for new knowledge, but warn against a lack of knowledge becoming a sort of excuse for action – neither when we reap positive or when we reap negative experiences. Moreover, we must never forget that those with disabilities are as different as everyone else. We have different needs. Therefore, we make individual job performance assessments. That is why we are demanding an individual plan for each one. If we need more knowledge about something, it is not the measures, but whether each one is given the help they need, which should be examined in more detail. I'm going to use an example to illustrate what I really mean. A little while ago, I was given the opportunity to meet a working group within the qualification programme in the home state – i.e. a somewhat uniform group of people who had a new chance in life. There was an unforgettable meeting with people who, after years of drug addiction, were finally included in the working life. They profited and got paid for their efforts — not much, but a little. Common to them was that they had managed to break a life course that would not only bring on themselves and their relatives further sorrow and suffering, but that would have additionally cost society millions of dollars in an uncertain future. But most important of all, they all as one were building up a hope for a future of work and income, a stable home and perhaps a family and a social network. I don't know how they've been since, and I don't need to know so much about it either. Recognize the experience with the qualification programme is good. But I know that if one of the people I met gets through the qualification programme on the way to work or education, it's worth both the effort and the price. It may be a footnote to the Right’s requirement for continuous performance assessments. Perhaps they have picked up some ideas from the Right School and want to beat a blow for further competition in the labour market. Together with rigid tendering systems, of which the Right is also a supporter, it tends to lead to equalisation and monopolisation on the labour market as well. When the results count, it is always the easiest-to-pass jobseekers to leave farms with the largest resources. Then we know that the participants in the qualification programme in Westfold are losing again. We know the right. Market alignment and market thinking permeate their policies. Nevertheless, it may be that I see ghosts in the darkness of the night. That's why I'm going to give the interpellant a chance to remind them today – in short, try again to explain the purpose of this interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e841	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for putting a very important theme on the agenda and also for a very inspiring and great introduction that touched on important areas that we have not debated so often. Many people today are far from working, and this has many reasons. It is not just social problems and illness that make entry into the labour market difficult. There are also many elderly people with disabilities, many with a foreign background and also others who live in places with a tight labour market, who need a little extra help to get to work. What Nav has to offer is important. Most of us hospited well at a Nav office this summer and took some experiences from there. My experience included: that there was no money for any measures at all, so it was not so easy to get an overview of what they had to offer – i.e. The only thing was a job club search. I must say that it had not been very inspiring for me as a young person to sit on those courses three days a week for a few hours. It may not have been the right thing to do, but it was the only thing they had to offer. So looking at what works is important. This also called for the opposition in a proposal relating to the last year's budget, where we asked for the overview that Røe Isaken calls for today, whether they are being returned to work after they have been on action and how long they are there. I also asked a question to the Council of State a few weeks ago about the achievement of the goal of the qualification programme. Then I learned that in the first four months of this year 750 had finished the program, and of them 30 had Pst. gone to work. What I did not get an answer to, as I also asked, was how many people were still working for those who had participated in the last few years. It was obviously not possible to give an answer. So that with the long-term effect is not possible to get answers to. After I understood the answer, the Council of State was pleased with the result, although this was a drop from 35 p.m. to 30 pst. There was also a decrease in relation to those who switched to other measures. So I think it's a little strange that you're happy with it, because it's not like that before you had the qualification program, was there no one who came out to work? So 30 pst. is probably not just the profits of the measures. What's also my concern about the qualification programme, which has not been highlighted, is that those who participate in it go to another social benefit. It told employees at the Nav office was the biggest problem. They could not turn more people over to appropriate measures to help them in the job, because the participants had to switch to a new social benefit, and it did not have the Nav money to do so. The government has now chosen to transfer the qualification aid to the municipalities – to the framework transfers – and I expect that it will not do anything better. Participants shall not only have the 2 G social benefit, they shall also have children's allowances, and there may be a great deal when both of them in a family have children's allowances for all of the children. So I hope that the Council of State will also take a look at whether it is most important to provide extra benefit, or whether it is most important to find suitable measures, so that you get people out to work, instead of putting them on a couple of hours a day a couple of days a week to do something. So a little bit about permanent job placements. These are measures that you know are very good and, as you know, work so well that everyone who needs such a place of action should get it. But the truth today is that it's escalating, and that many people who are ready to go into the places that you know to be good don't get the opportunity. As I understand it is also a shared responsibility between the municipality and Nav. So it's really unclear who's responsible for having those who need such a place of action get it. With regard to some other measures, there has been criticism of Nav for very poor information to employers and also to job seekers about their opportunities. Thus, they are not given the opportunity to choose an appropriate offer, and employers are not organised so that more people can have an adapted offer. It's just that tailoring sea, that adaptation, to every one that's important. When Nav doesn't take the time to maybe more than one meeting in a year, it's not so strange that you spend a lot of money on people going out of work, or they get into a wrong action because it's just what Nav has to offer. Then I am not surprised if the result is that very few are able to get out of work or be able to keep the job they start in, over time. It is also necessary to look at whether the studies in which they are given the opportunity to go are studies that are adapted to the opportunities they will later have to get a job. So I think the debate is very important. It's not just about money, and it's not just about the number of places, as the Red Isaac said. It's about quality, and you have to go in there and look at the results over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e858	Let me begin by stating that the representative of Gullvåg sees ghosts. Over many years, there has been a broad political consensus that we should slow down and like to stop leaving the labour market. That is why we agreed to the Nav reform. Although we sometimes distinguish layers when it comes to the level of action and the amount of action to be taken, there is a relatively consensual view of having a high effort in thefield of reintroduction. We should remind ourselves of this, both when government parties boast, in part, of their own efforts on the action side, or when other parties criticise the government unimpeded that an overall level of action may vary from year to year. This is not a message that contributes to driving the effort in the right direction. Because what we're talking about is the greatest societal challenge of our time. A society that has such a large outreach can become more a provider than a welfare society, especially when the way back is long and difficult for those concerned, and unfortunately development seems to be going in the wrong direction. In the richest country in the world, spending money is no good – no more money, no more money. On the other hand, it seems more and more that in the world's richest country, it is difficult to use the money properly. In any case, it is clearly difficult to know if the money is being used correctly. Every year, society spends a lot of money on labour market measures, and in the government's 2011 government's draft government budget is 7.3 billion. kr set aside for this purpose. In the last three years, the right has asked for insight into the impact of efforts. During the examination of the State budget, we asked the Ministry of Labour how many people are transferred to work, i.e. regular jobs, after completion of market measures, and how many of them are transferred to work remain in the job after one year, three years and five years. We have received the same answer every year, at the latest a few weeks ago: we do not know enough about this. In other words, final statistics are available for those participating in measures, but this is slightly differentiated. Despite the fact that the question has been asked over several years, the ministry has not been able to go further into the matter to see the long-term effects of the efforts made, at least not told us about it. I find it alarming and believe that the Council of State has a significant task ahead of it. When we spend so much of the community's money each year, we need to know that the money is used correctly. Reports from Nav tell us that their performance targets often depend on whether they are able to fill action spaces. The right thing to do would be to know if they were able to give users the right places of action and whether it helped to return to work. In the absence of analytical tools for this, the Council of State must help us and ensure that it is established and that it becomes a general knowledge. So we've met what we've perceived as a lack of knowledge and differentiated closing statistics. We believe that it is fully possible for the Council of State to take the right initiatives, so that this should be systematised also for us who are invited to adopt the budgets and strategies. For example, I want to do this. more information on the effectiveness of responses to those in need, compared to those in low need. Can we make things easier? Should we invest more in the expensive measures so that more people are offered them at an earlier date? In yesterday's Questionnaire, the Council of State stated the following: ‘The main problem, as I see it, is that we’ve been too ready to build people out of work and not get them into work.’ I could not agree more with the Council of State. That's why Right over several years has stressed that we need to know more about what creates transitions between alienation and working life, so that we can do the right steps next time to create a new chance. On the part of the Council of State, our proposals have been referred to – at the latest yesterday – as ‘quick fix’. I would like to see her have a more serious assessment of the suggestions and recordings we have made than that kind of simplification. I am pleased that there is clearly more knowledge and information about the impact of the measures than we have now received. I'm glad the council understands that we need them, because that's how I've seen her today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e887	This is a very important debate. But I still think that first I have to say a little about the use of words in the debate. I know very well that how we talk about people who are out of work is contributing to getting out of a difficult situation. If we, like the Right, constantly talk about people who are outside because they are not at work, as if they are not equivalent to all the other citizens of this country, it helps to maintain the difficult situation. It is such that the quality of the measures is important. However, it is also important that measures are not taken in a vacuum. It's not just about the individual's starting point in terms of health and education, but it's also about the social situation around the individual being very important – whether you're in a safe situation, whether you're in an unsafe situation, whether you're in an inclusive labour market, or whether you're in a discriminatory labour market, whether there's people who are willing to see your skills and ignore some gaps in the CV or some health problems or sick messages. It's important when we're discussing this, because that's one of the reasons why it's so hard to set the right parameters when we're going to measure this. I agree that there is a need to do this in a better way today. I've been to this pulpit many times and I've said that we're counting heads and heads and heads. That's not enough. But we don't have to end up counting those who came to work and were at work so and so long, because if people fall out of work again, it may be due to a lot of other factors than that there was no quality of the action, or if you haven't been on action. I have great faith in measures. I have great faith in individual measures. That is why I very much agree with what Mr Gullvåg was up here saying, that we need to have a variety of measures. We then need to reduce the belief that tenders produce the kind of measures that we necessarily need in any context. Then we have to look at what we're interested in measuring. It could also be that you can figure out if people are going to have a disability, or if you can get some activity done or if you're going to have another race. There's a good deal of research that I think we're putting too little emphasis on. Research shows that education and empowerment help. There has been strong research for many years. For example, Graver came in winter with a research report that shows that the social background contributes to whether or not you get into disability but that education is much more important, that you manage to complete a training course. The SSB and NOVA presented a report a year and a half ago that shows that if you have a disability and get higher education, the probability of getting a job with over 40 pst increases. This must tell us that what we do in labour market policy must have a competence perspective and a competence heading. We have a labour market today that is very demanding in terms of formal and social competence. There is also a lot of research on a part of those who are out of work and stay out of work for a long time. If one knows by some sea, then one knows how quickly one can feel quite small, and after a while one almost dares not to go out of the house. Then, of course, it is important to get started quickly, and it is also important to understand that some of the unskilled jobs that are on the labour market today are very difficult for people who have that kind of problems. It also means that you sometimes have to bet on education so that you can get off this socially very demanding first line. So here it's incredibly important to look at the content of the measures. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about something that both the Right and we have been agreeing on for a very long time, namely that we are not paying too much attention to what is basic reading and writing problems. Erna Solberg and I are of those who have stood up, as it is called, with our reading and writing difficulties. Some are in prison, and some are sitting on the Stortinget. But that labour market policy needs to take much more into account people's basic learning problems if we are to be able to get quality in action, I am absolutely convinced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e906	It is gratifying to note that several representatives of the Committee have visited Nav this summer, have contributed positively to the debate and understanding of these issues. For me, it was very useful to do. One of the most central objectives of policies in the field of work is to facilitate the employment and self-employment of as many as possible of the working-age population. We've said that before, we always have to repeat it: it's worth working. In addition, the state has an important task of ensuring that a maximum part of our labour force is used. Therefore, I believe it is essential that we facilitate the widest possible entry into the labour market, and that as much as possible come back to work after periods of absence from work. To make sure that as much as possible comes back to work, we need good measures to help people cope. Which actions work, and which do not work, are best seen by a systematic comparison of collected statistics on the actions we have. So far, there's every reason to give the interpellant credit for the theme he's addressing. I would like to stress, as the Council of State also pointed out, that today we have considerable statistics and knowledge on the subject. At the same time, we must recognise that there is a diverse group outside the labour market. This must be reflected in the instrument. As others have said, that is not all that can be measured. We should ask the question: are we measuring too much? And we have to ask questions about what we're using the knowledge acquired through measurement to. It's a little bit unclear to me what the Right wants to use this knowledge for. Is it like that one wants to use this knowledge to do more of the actions that work, and less of those that seem bad? Yeah, then I think it's good. But in these debates, there is also a need to put people into groups, categories. If that's how the Right wants to see which groups succeed through labour market measures, and use the efforts against those groups where the chances of success are greater, it's a strategy that I don't necessarily want to embrace. In society, our approach must be to give each individual his or her opportunity. Yes, even for those for whom we may think that the way up is long enough, we have a moral duty to set up, so that they also get to run a program, that they get their chance. The ability to get its chance should not depend on the probability of success. I am also concerned that we must bet on the good measures. The interpellant stated that we must have the most left for our tax money. I would strongly warn against a debate in which one focuses solely on the number. I fear that I will contribute to a development in which we replace the good measures with the cheap measures. We're not going to do that. The interpellant said that one could use a lot and achieve little. That's absolutely right. But we don't have to get into the other ditch either, that we think it's possible to use little and achieve a lot. We must have a heavy effort in this area, as the government has put up in the budget we are about to deal with, and then we must also give the individual Nav staff, who sit face to face with those who want to enter the labour market, the opportunity to make an individual assessment, and they must have a flexible menu of actions to offer. It's more important than that in this hall we always get answers to every smallest thing we want to ask about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e927	More than 600 000 people in pre-age employment are out of work. Many of these are unemployed in the real sense of the word, but there are also many who would like to have a job, many who would use the working capacity they have left, and combine work and social security benefits. It's important, as Andersen's representative said, for us people to belong to different communities. The workplace is for many such a good community. Instead of increasing efforts to find work organised, the government chooses to reduce the level of ambition in terms of increasing employment and activity, by reducing labour market measures by 7 000 action places compared to the 2010 figures, without having sufficient evidence and statistics on the impact of the action sites. Where we have numbers, as the Council of State has informed us today, we see that the measures can have a good effect, not least for those who need it the most. So anyway, you're going for a reduction, which probably means that many people who would have been helped to get out of work, don't get it. The Christian People's Party likes it bad. Instead, the government should have done the opposite. Nav is currently managing a number of job-oriented actions. In order to mention something, pay subsidies schemes, training measures, employment measures of a different nature both within and outside labour market enterprises and training and qualification measures apply. In addition, measures under the scheme come back more quickly, where Nav and health businesses are in the picture. A positive diversity of ways of helping people get back to work is important, a variety of measures that will allow as many arrangements as possible to fit in with their life situation. Several must away from passive social benefits and into activity. Fortunately, there is broad political agreement to help more people return to work. The disagreement only turns out when we come to the instruments. Anyway, we want to demand more action from the government. The interpellant therefore addresses an important issue when focusing on how the measures work and what results we actually see of the measures. When we have given Nav a number of measures that they can use to get people back to work, it is important that we here in this room also know how the measures work, and whether one achieves what was the goal. There is some research in this area. A report by the Institute for Social Research in 2006 showed that the scope of ordinary labour market measures had a positive impact. For the long-term unemployed, a clear positive effect can be seen both in the likelihood of getting a job and in later wage developments. For example, wage subsidies have in several reports to have a socio-economic long-term impact, but most importantly, people actually come back to work. So reducing the number of people in pre-employment who are able to move from work to social security, and getting more people in social security back to work in full or in part, is also a major challenge in employment policy in the future. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to have a higher level of different market measures aimed at people with special needs than the government has so far agreed. In addition, it is important that Nav sees individual people in this respect and has it as the starting point for the actions undertaken. Then I also think that the results will be the best and will be shown on the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e943	Rather than spending even more money and resources on performance measurement and evaluation, I think we should increase efforts in other labour market policies. The interconnection of the school and labour markets, for which the government has taken the initiative in the 2011 budget, is both absolutely necessary and promising. We need to find solutions to one of the most pressing problems of our time, namely the fact that every fourth student in high school does not complete, and that one in three does not complete secondary vocational education. That is why it is good that efforts to counter the drop in secondary education should be stepped up, and that next year we will spend 425 million. to targeted actions to this end. However, the link between education and working life should be continued, because we know that working life depends on a high level of knowledge and competence. It is and must be one of our most important competitive advantages in the years to come. In addition, we know that education is often the gateway to working life. In order to succeed with the workline, we must succeed with the educational line. Yes, probably what we do in education policy is more important for the future labour market than much of the repair work we do later on. Then I think we should use labour market policy as a starting point for a reform of continuing education and training that is absolutely necessary for the future's working life. There is a clear warning sign when the YS survey tells that 160,000 workers who are vulnerable in today’s labour market are wondering if they are in work in five years’ time. Over time, we have seen a tendency to commercialise the labour market, in the sense that labour market measures have become a separate industry with extensive competition between enterprises. The competition, which is usually a purely price competition, will necessarily lead to some winning jobs, while others lose. When vulnerable companies tell us that they are actually forced to reduce their activity because of the high quality of the measures, there is something fundamentally wrong with today's purchasing practices. It is also worth noting, when the interpellant draws up a line between those who pay for action, taxpayers who are at work, and those through whom we as a society choose to invest, among other things. in the case of labour market measures, that Nav is not about those outside the labour market. Nav is about us all, because we don't know what the labour market is going to look like in the future. It may be that both myself and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will lose their job after the 2013 election. At that time, we may both need action on Nav. The representative Giltun drew it up with benefits, and set benefits for those outside, against what we use on measures. We already recognize this. The result when the Bondevik government and the Advance Party put a budget was that the unemployed paid the price, namely by cutting the daily allowance for the unemployed. However, it is important, as the interpellant has mentioned, to look at the impact of labour market measures. We need even more diverse labour market measures, but I think Nav should be very aware that there are also unprofessional companies, which do not conduct serious training with their actions, which sometimes help young people to spend time without getting more knowledge. I thank the interpellant for a good interpellant and refer to the work we are doing for a more diverse instrument. We're not in the target, and we're still not there to offer all the different measures that work, but at least we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e960	First, as many others have done, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting the search light in a very important area within the welfare state. I think there's a lot of agreement between all parties and all politicians that we have to manage the money in a good way, so that they're well used in a society. I think Sylvi Graham had a lot of wisdom to say in his post, but there were two things I reacted to, and it might say something about that we have different political stance. One was that she was talking about a caretaker state, and the other was that she was talking about an outsidership. I do not recognize myself in that way of describing a welfare society, neither that it should be an outsidership, which is therefore definitely different from what must then be an interior, and that it should be a caring state, which should then be definitely different from the community of which we are all part. The representative, Røe Isaksen, was thinking about steering more on content, and he said that we're just steering on frames. Yeah, we're probably doing that, but we're also governing content, because it's actually a law that underpins all Nav's service. There is a framework law, which says something about structure, and then there is a content law, which says something about purpose. And the purpose paragraph makes it quite clear that one should also look at important issues relating to the needs of individuals for services. It's pretty interesting this with content management. I can agree that finding good management tools can be a challenge, but we also have to ask ourselves the question: What can be managed? This is at the intersection of science and politics. That's not all we politicians should care about in terms of content. There shall be a professional obligation to effectively provide services to individuals who come to the service and shall have their services covered. It's quite interesting that it's Right that will have more political governance of content when they don't want it on a frame. I wonder what the Right will use this control for. It's going to be interesting to see what the Right will do to those who don't fit into these numbers, or who don't achieve the goals that are somehow set in these measurable evaluations to the Right. For me, being normal is the sum of all the abnormals. And being a jobseeker is maybe the sum of all those who want a job of good value. We seek every job sometimes and in some cases, either because we just want to change jobs, or because we have been out of work for periods of time. So a challenge in terms of measurement is the ones that don't fit in, and the few that the services don't fit for. The second thing I want to say is that measurement has a challenge in terms of time. So we're going to have goals, but we also know that it's about prevention and getting into work, it's about long-term. Many families who have problems with their working life or who have social problems also have consequences for their children. I wonder how the Right has intended to measure and control the content in order to be sure that this also has a preventative effect on the generational problems that may arise when the family as a whole is affected by social problems. There should be some scientist who has said once that you find the solution to a problem, so be careful to solve it, because then you might not have any work anymore. And this is the case with research: research is not just going to find results, it's just a small part of the task of research; research is essentially going to find new challenges. That's also why no matter how much we measure, and how much we put in evaluations, it's never certain that they'll be tomorrow's response to the challenges. They may be solving the answers we had yesterday, or yesterday, when that effort or the measures were put in place, but it is not certain that they will solve tomorrow's challenges. I am very much for the proper use of money in the public sector. As a good social democrat, I will keep order in my own house. And we have, as it is so modern called, "good before new" as our basis of value, or as it was called in the old days: Do your duty and demand your right. But that doesn't mean we can measure everything, and thus exclude large parts of those that fall outside, from instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e981	It's an important interpellant from the Red Isaacs: it's helping people out of work back to work. To give every person the opportunity to participate in working life with his or her ability to work, and to have an income from his or her work so that he or she can live on it, is a foundation law – nothing less than that. It's usually very demanding. It is a matter of course requiring a holistic approach, and it is a matter of course requiring a prioritisation of financial resources. It is a political struggle on this issue today, as in the past. A red-green government has parties that have had the greatest credibility, and have the greatest credibility, in this area, seafared because it has a platform with generous economic social conditions, and not least because it has many voters who have learned how important this issue is. There are some important points that provide an overall framework for social security: there are tripartite labour relations, where there are countries, employers and employees, there may be bipartite labour relations, where there are countries and a private trader, there is the commitment to full employment, it is the national collective agreements, it is the publication of collective agreements, it is the work of Norwegian pay and working conditions in a situation where there is free movement of labour, it is permanent employment, and there is the offer of full positions in municipal health. So there are a number of key elements that, in their sum, contribute to a development in one direction or another in terms of providing security for those people who need the most security from overall authority. The interpellation focuses on those who struggle to participate in ordinary income-bearing work. There are very many, and there is certainly agreement – regardless of the parties here – that the results of what has been created so far in Norway are too poor. We have to be impatient, we have to get further. I want to focus on the life situation of young people — those who drop out of high school, those who are in a situation where they need help from child protection, or those who are in a situation of detention and then leave prison as more beneficial to people than when they entered prison. There is a lot of focus on course and theory, and I fully agree that theory and general education in the subjects are important for being a useful human being. But there's also something called education through practical work. Very many of the people we're talking about here have expressed in conversation with me that it's education through practical work that maybe best suits them. Nav has the ability to provide training through practical work. Good things are done about the Qualification Programme where practical work is an important part. Nav has the ability to contract people with an employer where the payment is a regular salary, but where the financing of the salary is a combination of the employer's payment and the money that comes from the government. What I'm saying now is a rehearsal from this pulpit. But I'm going to keep going until we get bigger results. More money is needed for schemes called ‘temporary’ or ‘temporary’ pay subsidies in the Nav technical language. I don't understand it any other way than that here there's great opportunities, because the conversation I have with people who are in these situations of life suggests that it's in this area that one might get an entrance: learning a job, learning a behavior, learning a behavior that makes a person get something to tell his comrades and friends about, and that makes one get maritime and dignity in the future. I hope we can learn more through practice. I hope that research can be completed by sensing what's going on among people. There's a lot of possibilities here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1000	First of all, I would very much like to distance myself from anyone who is trying to connect the concept of ‘foreign’ to any form of thinking that people are inferior as human beings or minors as citizens. Of course it's not like that. Whether you can work a lot or little or nothing, you're a full-fledged citizen of the country of Norway, and you're a full-fledged human being. I assume that this is also the starting point for the concept of ‘outership’ to be used in, for example: The evening post, or in the Velferd magazine, which the Committee receives at its office at regular intervals, or that the representative Trettebergstuen on the Workers' Party's website on 25 February 2010 said that the IA Agreement could counteract and reduce the risk of «permanent alienation». So now you have to start to be a little neat in your rhetoric. It is typical for the red-green – and especially for the Working Party – that on the one hand you say one thing, and when the Right repeats something of the same thing, you say it is stamping and suspecting. The kind of error and the kind of rhetoric I distance myself from. So to the discussion of what the essence of this is about. It's not about, as the representative Henriksen says, that you can measure everything. But we should try to measure what we're actually doing. And then it's essentially a matter of how we control our public systems. Let me just take a parallel: there was a stark difference between the detailed, regulatory, centralist school for which the Workers' Party stood, which has now fortunately gone away, and the school that Right – actually with votes from SV – introduced, where the focus was on knowledge requirements and not on detail management of content. There are two ways to think about managing our systems. One focuses on input — how much resources you take, how much you can use the system — and the other focuses on what you actually get out. Whether there's a new chance for people and a chance to get into work, or whether there's knowledge for students, varies from sector to sector. Then I have to take a little visit to the Gullvåg representative. It reminds me that it is good to have a warm heart, but it is dangerous when the heat from the heart goes to the head and it boils over. Because it's not like that, no matter how much you spend, it's worth it if only one person is saved. It's very kind to say that, but it's basically unsolidarian and it's a fundamental unsocial and unfair way of thinking. If, through a system, resources are used incorrectly to save one person, while by the same means more could be saved in another way, it is a fundamental responsibility for a politician to make sure that the funds are used in a way that gives the most opportunity. Finally, I agree entirely with 50 pst. of what the representative for Forsberg said: I also think he will lose his job in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1011	Once again, thanks to the inter-pellant for this debate, which has been a strange debate in many ways. There's been a debate where the opposition wants more of what they're really saying they don't know anything about how it works. I believe that the debate has become that way because, like the red-green government, the opposition knows that labour market measures are a very important tool in labour market policy, and that they work broadly according to their intentions. However, they are particularly effective in relation to the vulnerable groups on the labour market. I've shown that through what I've been talking about, and we've seen that through the studies we've had. The qualification programme was advanced, and a point was made that the share of returnees to mainly work has fallen from 35 to 30 pst. We are talking about those who are the furthest from the labour market in Norway today. I think we still have to be clear on that 30 pst. is a very high number, and especially because this measure has also been taken over some time. In fact, those who were perhaps the most well-off on that measure have now gone to work. Now we might have an even greater focus on those who are even further away from the labour market. Then, in this debate, we have the debate on the so-called exclusion, which we are constantly hearing about. It's nice that the Red Isaac will clean up for the Workers' Party here. I just have to say that I'm very clear, like the others who have spoken here, that the word 'foreign' is a very stigmatizing concept. It's a concept that totally ignores the fact that we have a rights-based system in this country that makes people who fulfil these rights eligible for these benefits and get these benefits. Then I agree with everyone who says that it is clear that it is unfortunate that there are so many people who are out of work. But be aware that this is not an increasing number. In fact, we're at the same level as we were in 2005, but we have an increase because we have an increase in older people. In general, and mainly older people, they become disabled, because they have acquired rights in this society. But there are also too many young people outside. They worry me, and I've said that before. These are the ones we especially need to focus on, and we need to think about new things. There are some of the things I'm concerned about. Then I just have to say something at the end of this with that I have talked about the Right has delivered «quick fix». Yeah, I mean it. Erna Solberg has three things: she says that we need to have a step-by-step approach – that's what Nav has, through redundancy money and work performance assessment, measures that are much more organized against the individual. And then she says we have to have arrangements – we have been doing that for many years. Then we're left with the tax haven.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1026	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1040	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1049	The issue we now have for the treatment, financing and development of R & D. 7 on the route Sokna–Örgenvika in the state of Buskerud, has been talking for more than 70 years. A master plan for the route was approved as early as 1974. So this must be a good day for the municipalities that are affected and for the municipality of Buskerud. The majority of the committee, which consists of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, emphasises that the development will make the road safer and safer. It's going to be 20 kilometers shorter than today, and we're going to have a travel time reduction of about 20 miles shorter than today. Eighteen minutes. Reduced distance is good for the environment and will facilitate transport between Hallingdal and the Oslo area and make it even more attractive to live in Hallingdal. The road is important for the development of business in the area, and Hallingdal is also an important tourist and cabin area where most passengers come by car. Rv. 7 with rv. 52 Gol–Borlaug and Rv. 50 Hol-Aurland is also an important road link between the Oslo region and the West. The development has a high socio-economic profitability and an estimate that the new road route without a cross, with centre line and pass-by fields will significantly reduce the number of accidents. As far as funding is concerned, the governance framework – and I stress the governance framework – is set at 1520 million. NOK 1620 million and the cost framework. kr. This means that the project has been calculated at 1520 million. kr. This is apparent from the financial plan. I mention that this is a project where there is a great demand for local resources, and the municipalities and county councils have taken decisions on partial toll financing. In this case, it has also been decided locally that toll companies can forge some of the state funds, so that the project is carried out even earlier than the national transport plan provides. This, of course, increases interest costs. The net benefit of the project is estimated at 1.8 billion. kr. As far as I know, this is one of the most socio-economic projects in the national transport plan during this decade. It is therefore important to get started quickly. As I said, eight municipalities and the municipality of Buskerud have joined the toll system through the local treatment of the case. In the proposition, a few impressions might be that there are only six municipalities that have joined the scheme, but I'm making it clear that there are eight host municipalities that go for this. These are the Rings, the Cherry, and the Skins, the Nes, the Gol, the Eel, the Hol, and the Hemsedal. They can now, together with the municipality of Buskerud, look forward to the opening of this important road for this part of the country in the autumn of 2014. In this case, the Progress Party has its own comment and a separate proposal that I believe they will explain themselves. I present with this the majority's position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1068	Construction of new rv. 7 between Sokna and Ørgenvika in the state of Buskerud is an important project that will reduce the distance between Oslo/Hønefos area and Hallingdal/Westland by 20 km. The project is part of the necessary upgrading of the road network in Norway, which is important for strengthening long-term value creation, improving road safety and reducing environmental disadvantages. The Progress Party gives its full support to the project. It's an important road project -- I repeat it. It has national leadership – I repeat it. So we give our full support to the project. On the other hand, we are totally opposed to the use of toll financing. The country’s finance minister recently presented the State budget for 2011, which shows that by the end of 2010, the estimate for the oil fund is more than 3 000 billion. kr. Just investing in good roads in one’s own country is the proper and sensible disposal of oil money — also sensible and sensible from a generational perspective. New, good roads last 50–70 years. Modernisation of the Norwegian road network, as proposed by the Progress Party in the Advance Party’s Alternative National Transport Plan for 2010–2019, will therefore also be an investment for future generations. The use of toll financing is considered by the Progress Party to be a completely unnecessary extra tax on transport. There is an extra tax that has now become one of the main pillars of the government in terms of road development and that will only increase as long as this government keeps going. For the government, this has become an important extra tax which it wants to supplement with other variants: both during and through road pricing. The progress party is totally opposed to such a development. Good infrastructure is to be paid by the State. Toll financing, as in this project, is the most expensive form of financing. It is clear from the case that the financial plan amounts to a total of EUR 1,5 billion. kr for the project, the drivers shall contribute through tolls of approx. $800 million. kr – apparently. That's before you read the rest. Tolls shall cover interest costs of approximately: Seven hundred seventy million. NOK 45 million and collection costs. kr. Gross toll revenue, that's the same thing as the total payment from the drivers, is going to be $1,615 million. kr on a project it is estimated will cost 1520 million. to build. The average pass-by price is set at NOK 73. That means 11,164,383 passages without a new road being built. Or to use another image that might illustrate it even more clearly: any other passage is going to pay extra costs due to the funding choice. Every other pass does not give a penny to a new road. To pay more in tolls than the road costs to build, we believe in the Progress Party is actually indecent. The Progress Party is, in turn, alone in demonstrating resistance to toll financing and, on its own, in proposing government funding instead of toll financing. It's a shame that all the other parties without reservations applaud a project financed by tolls. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1094	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1097	Finally, the Stortinget must decide on a new route between Sokna and Ørgenvika. For a long time, this project has been the most profitable transport project in Norway, with the highest cost-benefit. For over 40 years – the case rapporteur said 70, it may be, I am not more than 48 myself, but at least as long as I can remember – there has been a debate about this curtailment of Rv. 7 which will provide western and eastern countries with a 20 km shorter road between the country's two largest cities. Sokna–Örgenvika will also provide the more than 15 000 cabin owners in Hallingdal with shorter and safer roads. Hallingdal is the country's largest tourist region. There are between five and six million guest houses, hotels and other accommodations each year. That means that in Hallingdal, with its 20,000 inhabitants, on average there are 35,000 people at the same time, i.e. more than 15 000 persons arriving in the valley at all times. Riksvej 7 has an extreme strain on weekends and holidays. The average annual traffic in Få is slightly above 5000, but on weekends it spreads up to 10 000, and on holiday trips, of course, the worst in Easter, to over 13 000 cars. Among other things, there is also a lot of heavy transport going between east and west. It is therefore gratifying that an overall political environment and an overall business life with travel life in Hallingdal at the head have been in tune with this project for many decades. Yes, travel life in Hallingdal is to have an extra reward today. They have dedicated so much to the project that they have sponsored one of their main competitors, Norefjell and Noresund and Krødsherad Municipality with 15 million. kr in order to advance the regulatory work. I think one should look quite a long time for a similar example, that travel life in one region sponsors the center development of a competitor, Norefjell, to get ahead of a road project. The impact assessment of the project began in 1990 and will be completed in 2014. This means 25 years – 20 years of planning and 4 years of expansion. It is a great cross of thought that a project that is the most profitable in the NTP, which has unison political uprising, and which will be unanimously adopted here today – with the usual exception of the Progress Party – and which is also financed by tolls – takes so long to realise. Here, project financing or OPS could be an important tool for speeding up the project and for speeding up its completion. Riksvej 7 is an important east-west corridor. On 1 January 2004 rv. 7 to Gol tribal road – now it's called the highway. The expansion between Hönefoss and Sokna will soon be in place, that is, Ramsrudhellenga, and in 2014 until Sokna–Örgenvika is ready. Then it's time to think ahead. The Ørgenvika-Gol route has many dangerous road sections and high traffic. The Hallingdal municipalities want to expand this route, preferably with project funding. Let's take this seriously, so that it doesn't go 25 years to the next road improvement on this important route. In the west, Hardangerbrua rises. There are exciting plans about the wild road over Hardangervidda. These are also issues that need to be followed up in the coming years. But now we're going to enjoy the decision we're going to take today. Today it takes approx. two and a half hours to drive to Gol. With this road project, you can get to Gol a little over two hours. You want to use approx. 1 hour and 20 minutes to get to Hallingporten and Bear Park in Få. This connects Hallingdal more strongly to the central eastern region. In my and the Right's view, this is the best form of district policy: building infrastructure that connects the parts of the country, which also harmonizes with the wishes of the local business community. In Hallingdal is one of three employees in travel life. The effects on trade and craft industries are enormous. But also from an east-west perspective, the road is important. Heavy traffic across the mountain, especially via Lærdal and Hemsedal, is high. Being able to cut travel time by 40 minutes on a trip from the West to Oslo and back means a lot. It also means a lot to climate emissions, which will go down by 20 kilometers shorter road. Therefore, this is a trade mark day for East-West traffic and for the country’s largest tourism region, Hallingdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1118	It is a very long-awaited case that we will decide on in Stortinget today. We have municipalities that have really taken their efforts seriously. We have a county municipality that has been very involved in the matter. So I say on behalf of the Center Party, congratulations so much on the day. Riksvej 7, as rv. 52 over Hemsedal, is an important part of transport between the East and the West. It is important that we ensure that such transport corridors carry out well, so that it is possible in an efficient way to transport people and goods safely between the different parts of the country. This is such a contribution. Hemsedal and Hallingdal are important tourist areas. I myself have been and seen this recently. It's a lot of activity, and you're deliberately betting ahead. It's also a large cabin area, and there's a lot of people running from time to time. They're taking advantage of the road in full moons, which several people in the hall have been in the past. In addition, we in the Center Party believe that this will make it even more attractive to live in these areas. Building infrastructure – road in this case – helps to make it more attractive in Hallingdal. The Sokna – Ørgenvika route provides a high time gain for road users. 20 kilometers down the short drive and 18 minutes down the short drive means a lot to those who run this area. It will provide a safer and safer road. I think many people are looking forward to it being finished in the autumn of 2014. I conclude briefly by saying that this is building the country, and we proudly support that in the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1129	We've had 70 years. At least it is not the fault of the sitting Committee on Transport and Communications that it has taken 70 years. I'll give honey to the whole committee for very quick and good treatment, and especially to the case-speaker Sonsterud. But I also want to pay for giving a little honey to the department. It's not a day-to-day meal. It's because here we feel that a project that actually has doctors out in NTP has come up before. The reason for this is, of course, that the regional government has set itself up when it comes to advancement, and is willing to take on the burden of tolls. But when it comes to giving honey, it's the end when I hear what the Progress Party says in this case. When the Progress Party says that they give their full support to the project, it is only the funding they disagree with. It's not a threat, is it? It's very easy to say, we're some people in the project, but we're not making up the money. When the Progress Party must choose between a good road project and the fight against tolls, it is very clear that the Progress Party believes that the fight against tolls is more important than getting through good road projects. There is a clear signal to Buskerud today: Had the Progress Party been running, this case had not come through. It's that simple. But it's a great pleasure to see the rest of the Storting stand up against this and pray for what the region wants, to get this project in place. Those who have been waiting for 70 years, would like the Advance Party to wait even longer. But the Right, the Center Party, the SV, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are gathered that this will not happen. I'm glad. I also share the opinion of the representative of Greece that this project could have just been completed as a OPS project and thus come before. That's what I thought was a wise approach. I thought it was a very good setting. We could also write something about the good environmental aspects of this project. So we're going to save 20 miles. It has a positive environmental effect. If I'm just going to finally come up with a point of view, it's that the Ringerix tunnel is becoming all the more important when we implement this type of project. If we want to have a good competition between rail and road, we have another good reason to get the Ringerik tunnel in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1144	Route 7 together with rv. 52 Gol–Borlaug and Rv. 50 Hol-Aurland, a major road link between the Oslo region and the West, with a large share of useful traffic. Hallingdal is, as many have already done, an important tourist and cabin area with a lot of traffic in the entrance halls and in the Ferians. The annual traffic on the route is high; between 3500 and 5000 cars pass here during the day. There are therefore many road users and businesses who want to enjoy and benefit from an extension between Sokna and Ørgenvika. Transport of goods and people between east and west in our country must be done in an environmentally friendly and efficient way. Shortening travel time between parts of the country is an important task. Today's road between Sokna and Ørgenvika is 37.5 km long and is in an arc via Noresund. New trasé reduces the distance between the Oslo area and Hallingdal and the West by 20 km. The new line is 17 km long and departs from today's highway just north of the center of Sokna. The project will provide an 18 minute shorter journey time on this important route. Road safety is an important area of transport policy. On the route Sokna – Örgenvika probably has 25 pst. of the road down speed limit. During the period 2000-2009, there were 71 accidents involving personal injury on the route. 124 people were killed or injured, of whom five were killed and 16 were seriously injured. The combination of better road safety, high annual traffic and the sharp reduction in travel time on this route make the project socially viable. The net benefit of the project is estimated at 1.8 billion. kr – with a net benefit over total costs of 1,1. The net benefit per budget head is 2.2. This means, in practice, that for every budget crown we invest in Sokna–Örgenvika, society gets 3.2 kroner back. The project will be partly financed by tolls. I am pleased that the municipalities of Ringerike, Krødsherad, Få, Nes, Gol, Ål, Hol and Hemsedal and Buskerud County, all have taken decisions whereby they agree to partial funding with tolls in the project. In the review of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the project is planned to start in the 2010–2013 planning period and is planned to be completed in the last six-year period. In accordance with local decisions on partial toll financing, the government is proposing a redeployment of the project, starting in 2011 and opening up to traffic in 2014. Local authorities’ treatment of toll financing shows that a local commitment to start up the facility as early as possible to get the new road as quickly as possible. Toll financing facilitates redundancy, the toll company advances the funds needed to start work in 2011. After the project has been through external quality assurance, the governance framework is set at 1520 million. NOK and cost frame to SEK 1620 million. kr. So funding is based on both tolls and government funds. Ministry of Transport is adding 720 million. kr in government funds – in line with national transport plan. This is $800 million. kr in tolls for the project. According to the National Transport Plan, it has been suggested that the majority of government funds will be provided in the last six years. That's the way it will be, even if the project is forced. The advance made by the toll company will be refunded at the same time as provided for in the national transport plan. So the government suggests that it be added to two-way collection in an automatic toll station, which will be put into operation when the project opens up for traffic. The roofs on which they are constructed are 63 SEK for light goods vehicles and 160 SEK for vehicles with a total mass exceeding 3500 kg. Those who use the AutoPASS chip will get 10 pst. Discount. The collection period is estimated at about 15 years. Tolls shall cover interest expenditure of approximately 770 million. NOK 45 million and costs of collection. NOK, in addition to the development costs of 800 million. kr. The gross toll revenue is expected to amount to approximately 1,650 million. kr. Interest expense is high, but it is in all areas of society. If you want to promote investment or consumption, it has an interest rate charge. The opposite point here is that road users get a 20 km shorter road at a much earlier time than if the project were financed by only state resources. Today, there is reason to congratulate users of the road – when we get that far – but also local and central peoples who have done so together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1163	If some representatives appear to have a long speaking time, this is because the computer system ran a little wild up here when she started. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1168	It's with the car drivers' money the government builds the country. It's with extra taxes on new roads that the government is releasing new roads. When to contribute 800 million. So, in addition to that, they have to add a corresponding amount. I ask for a reasonable consideration from the Council of State, without a reference to this being enshrined in local measures. But I am asking for a reasonable assessment of the cost of financing of 800 million. kr related to a contribution of an additional 800 million. kr. And in addition to that: how well-known is the Council of State that this supplementary bill is so extensive that it is in the funding contribution of 800 million. kr you're talking about, actually it's double? Does the Council of State think it is well known to the drivers who are going to cover this bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1176	It is rare that I have received so much positive feedback as after I presented this matter. It's because it's not that they have to pay tolls that matter most to most drivers, but it's actually that we're able to realize far more projects in that way. Let me remind you that I am a member of a government that has presented a very ambitious national transport plan, 322 billion. kr shall be used for 10 years to come. And so we get a long line of road projects. So local decisions make this further. I just have to say that there is a great deal to be done today, and it must be great to be part of a broad majority of the population – just as local and regional populace and many drivers are very happy about the decision that was taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1181	I fully agree with the chairman of the committee, Hareide, and I think it is very positive that this matter is now finally presented. It is an important matter for Buskerud, but also a very important matter for East-West traffic to and from Bergen and Hordaland, the county from which I come. But in order to create a little bit of a balance, and because we also have to think of it as a whole as transport politicians, I want to invite the Council of State to a small assessment of a railway project that is also very important in this region. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear if the Council of State has something new to tell us today about the progress of the Ringeriks tunnel, which will also provide very large time gains and savings, both for people in Hallingdal and for the East-West link.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1188	The President is in doubt whether this is relevant in relation to the statements made by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1191	Let me first point out that everyone who sees the map on the front of this proposition sees how important that project is today's adoption. Let me also tell you that in June, the Hallingdal Regional Council was at a time gathering, where there were very happy reactions because they just got the hearing that this proposition was being made. So to the railway: what is now the next phase of the Ringerix tunnel – in addition to the upgrading that is currently taking place on the Bergensbahnen – is the roll-over of the national transport plan in 2013. Very important talks are taking place at regional level, at national level, and with the involvement of businesses during February in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1200	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1203	President! I pressed here to ask for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1208	It's not on the President's screen, but the President will nevertheless give Bård Hoksrud a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1211	Thank you for that, President. Obviously, there may still be something about the systems. The Council of State began by saying that she was proud to be the Council of State today, in a government that at least I perceive as – I was actually going to say skinning – shudder Norwegian drivers. Because that's what you add up to here. I have to ask the Council of State to explain how she can say that ordering the drivers to pay 106 pst. the cost of building is to be part of a ‘partial financing’ or a spice layer. I don't understand 106 pst. As a spice layer, I actually see it as paying the drivers the entire bill for what it costs to build the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1218	I said it was great to be the Council of State today. I think it also has to be big to be part of such a wide plural that gives green light for such an important project. I note that for the Progress Party, the fight against tolls is far more important than both the advance and the launch of new projects – for which local initiatives have been taken. So the acceleration itself means a 20 km shorter road than a year ago. Without toll funding for this project, we do not know when this would have been implemented. And so it's a project that's as socio-economically useful as it is, and that will mean so much in connection with traffic security – something that the Progress Party is flagging in a different context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1223	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1228	Sokna–Örgenvika is a term in Buskerud. I became politically active in the mid-1970s, and one of the very first things I heard about at meetings in my party was Ramsrud-Kjeldsberg, Sokna-Örgenvika and the winter open rv. 7th@item: inlistbox The latter came in the mid-1980s, Ramsrud–Kjeldsberg and Sokna–Örgenvika were waiting for a great deal of frustration for example. the municipalities of Hallingdal. Riksvej 7 is, to quote the Hallingdal Regional Council, the lifeblood of small and large rural communities, the east-west shortcut, and the road to some of Norway’s most attractive destinations. Bad standard has given rise to increased costs, reduced industrial development and serious accidents. Finally, something happens. Ramsrud-Kjeldsberg started in 2008 and will open in 2012. Today, Stortinget gives a clear signal for Sokna-Örgenvika. The project has a long history, first adopted in the Stortinget in December 1977. It was more than 30 years ago, but the matter was not new then either. The first plans were drawn up before the war, and that's over 70 years ago. Roads are not something a planner for fun, but because they are needed. Today's case is therefore joyous. Many people have to take responsibility for being overly mature. Not so many people can take credit for something happening now. From 2002, the municipality of Buskerud, under the chairman of the Workers' Party, Tor Ottar Karlsen, came to the fore. Local business and municipal defence further contributed. Overfilling the previous NTP under a red-green government and the bet of time on traffic in the current NTP under the same government was really speeding things up. Local agreement on partial tolls means further tolling. An active county municipality, under the chairmanship of the Workers' Party, Roger Ryberg, has taken responsibility for the guarantee on its own. There must be a bit of a bit of anguish for the Right Buskerud representative, a former member of the Transport Committee and originally from Hallingdal, that it is only now that something really happens. Today it's a celebration in Hallingdal. I expect that celebration will take place without the Advance Party. It's funny to see how the Progress Party continues to ride its anti-toll horses across local and regional unity. With the arrangement of the Progress Party, Sokna–Örgenvika would continue its desert migration, even though it is one of the most socio-economically profitable projects we have. This attitude probably cost them a bankroller from Hallingdal at the last election. The right belongs to the majority of the day for a solution, and that's great. But it has already been said here in the debate that the Right Party and the Progress Party have taken the aim of steering Norway together from 2013. Then there must be a cross of thought for both of them that they stand so far apart on absolutely essential questions. Sokna-Örgenvika is a clear example of that distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1242	It's definitely a very good day for everyone in Hallingdal. I had actually thought that I should only be positive in my post, but after listening to the previous representative, I think it's time for some adult training. Obviously it's a big and important day for Hallingdal, but it's with an incredible bismach. Everyone agrees that we should decide that the road should be built – everyone agrees. But the road has to be financed, and in addition to all taxes and taxes already paid by drivers and traders, which are close to 50 to 60 billion. kr – depending on what you add, whether you take VAT or not, or other things you add to the toll – it is especially that the drivers actually have to pay a whole of 106 pst. of what it costs to build the road. The rapporteur said ‘partly toll-financed’, but that means paying more than the total cost. It must be paid by the drivers in addition to all the other charges they already pay. Or to say it clearly with pure numbers: for a road project costing $1,520 million. NOK 1,615 million will be allowed to be paid by the drivers. SEK, divided by 800 million. DKK in tolls, in addition to SEK 770 million. NOK in interest and SEK 45 million. NOK in collection costs. Yes, with such decisions, I understand that many people think this is state highway robbery, when the state actually lets the drivers take the entire bill. This is a large-scale discharge. Then I have to go back to the representatives and the new tactics that I experience from our political opponents in this room now. We have the exact same money as any other party in this room, but we want to spend the money in a slightly different way than the political majority in this room does. We believe, in fact, that investing in infrastructure is a good store, and it brings back a lot of positive elements, both in terms of road safety, in terms of industrial competitiveness, and in terms of putting the whole country into use. But we want to say that maybe we're switching off a little bit less to the oil fund, and then you use money to invest in infrastructure. I understand that it may be the new leader of the Christian People's Party we have heard of the pulpit today, because it was at least a new rhetoric. And the difference between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party is that the Progress Party actually has the framework in its alternative plans and in its alternative budgets, unlike the Christian People's Party, which sends the bill to the drivers in addition to what they already impose on them. That's the big difference. We have the money, Rv. 7 Sokna–Örgenvika would be built with the Advance Party, and we would build it just as quickly as the government puts up, probably even faster, if we had been able to build up more holistic and long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1253	Today is a great day for us in Buskerud. But it made me think of him the guy from Ål in Hallingdal who had to take a trip to the capital at the time the capital was called Kristiania. As you can see, it was a few years ago, so he needed an overnight stay on the trip. When he came back to Ål in Hallingdal, he was asked, "How has your trip gone?" Yes then, he said, the journey went well there, but you world where away that town lies. Riksvej 7 is the highest priority transport measure in Buskerud so far, and is the most profitable project in NTP in the period 2010–2019. Many have experienced reduced travel time and reduced travel time, but there has also been a stretch of accidents in the last ten years – five killed, 119 injured. There are serious numbers, and this will help to bring down the number of injuries and kills in my county. I'm very happy about that. Sokna–Örgenvika is also the project in NTP that leads to the greatest reduction in CO2 emissions by 11000 tonnes of CO2 each year. It is a significant contribution. The Riksvej 7 between Oslo and Bergen has more than half of all traffic going east-west in Norway, it is going to be the remotest shortest road when all measures are completed in place on rv. 7th@item: inlistbox Many have already baptized it for the shortcut, and that is a good name. The standard on the road is and has been a problem for business today, but with the investment in Sokna–Örgenvika will be significantly better. This means increasing opportunities for Hallingdal and the Ringerix region. When the Ramsrud slope is over next year, we move the machines. This means that the road can be completed in 2014, and that makes sense for many reasons. Hallingdal is one of the most attractive tourist areas in Norway, which was also visited by the representative of Greece. One in three is employed in travel and trade in goods. Building the Sokna–Örgenvika means increasing travel opportunities in this region, which still has too seasonal travel lives. We have an ambition that Hallingdal will develop to have a travel offer that is much more on a year-round basis – it is significant to pick up – and thus summer tourism and the short distance to the capital area are crucial. Funding for Sokna–Örgenvika is possible because this government places considerable emphasis on investment in transport, but also because a local government has decided to provide a guarantee. My rose today goes to the municipalities and county councils and not least to people in Hallingdal and Buskerud, who have revealed populism to the Progress Party. We also have many examples elsewhere in Buskerud that connection to toll projects provides support and progress in elections. People reveal populism to the Advancement Party, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1276	This is a good day for many road users. Sokna–Örgenvika, which we are now talking about, is a good project. We all agree on that in this Chamber. The distance we're now talking about is a relatively narrow road calculation, and we know that there are many accidents here. The statistics from 1995 to 2004 are gloomy. There are altogether 88 accidents registered, with 161 injuries. 25 pst. of these accidents, there are persons involved, and there are very serious accidents, because there are meeting accidents combined with the fact that there are many people in each car. This means that there is a greater proportion of damage than normal on Rv. 7th@item: inlistbox So now we get a more traffic-proof road, and it's very much appreciated throughout Busherud, but also by others who travel on Rv. 7th@item: inlistbox It is also a good day for the climate. 20 km of short road can be converted into litres of petrol and diesel and reduced combustion. We're also going to take that with us in a day like today. Then I must have a little visit to the Advancement Party. I have been sitting and following this debate, and in the posts that have been held in the line change to the Council of State, there is a toll it has been focused on. Even adults must be trained for us, who obviously have not understood what this matter is about. It is very clear that in this debate the Progress Party has so far given priority to providing funding for this route. This means that you focus less on other things. They're for the project, but they want it to be funded in a different way. The progress party even says that they have the same amount of money as the others, but they want to spend the money a little differently. They wanted to use more of the oil fund, it was said. Yeah, then it's the pensioners, then, who get less money to the seventh and the last, because of the Advance Party's use of money where we're accused that the road users are in a split layer. Traffickers are all of us in this room, I think, and then we're all on this split layer. I don't think this case and other things are worth doing adult education, but we're honest and honest about what we stand for, and we're taking the debate there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1291	The party to progress was founded in 1973 and was ‘a party to a strong reduction in taxes, levies and public intervention’. The party of progress needs to be made as absolutely as possible. The Directorate-General for Roads presented the first plan for Sokna-Urgenvika in 1974. As a cage in Hallingdal, we had a sticker on the car where it said ‘Yes to Sokna–Örgenvika’ and ‘No to EEC’. Don't give up, I think I'm actually one of the biggest forces in the halls. But still – there will be a paradox when it comes to going almost 40 years from someone else we're going to build a new road, until the road is actually built. The Minister of Finance spoke a little in his submission to the State budget on the generation agreement. With the government's lack of investment in infrastructure, we don't have to think that we're going to spend our next generation of money: one generation -- one way. Good roads in own countries are both defenceful and sensible disposal of the oil fund, including for future generations. New Sokna–Örgenvika are important for travel life in Hallingdal. The road is important for the transport industry, and he is important for the future of the businesses in the region and of course for us as cages there. Norwegian drivers pay more than three times as much in taxes and taxes on cars as the country uses on the road. The six municipalities of Hallingdal and Buskerud County have joined the toll financing, at the Hallingporten Vegfinans. Every time tolls have been up, we in the Progress Party have been skin-stained by other parties. But everyone knows in the heart that it is possible to build a road without tolls, we can only see a little near to our neighboring countries. On my way down to Oslo, I hit one of my constructions. She simply said, "Without tolls, no way." If we are to get this road, we actually have to pay for it himself. Every time we go down or up the valley, we have to pay at least 63 kroner. It's gonna be crazy money. It is that with today's government it would not be possible to get rid of such a size without tolls. This shows just how easy it is for the red-green government to roll the bill over to the car list. We believe that the drivers have to pay more in tolls than it actually costs to build the road. This is what we believe in in the Progress Party is directly irreconcilable. The road will cost 1.58 billion. NOK 1,62 billion is to be paid by the car registry. kr. What many people might not know is that it's over 45 million. kr just to charge all of these tolls. The advance party has always supported the development of the Sokna–Örgenvika stretch, even if someone in my own valley valley has claimed otherwise. For information: I was also invited to the celebration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1310	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1326	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1335	This is an important matter. In this way, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers, who deal with this matter. In particular, the proposers address four aspects of the model we use, which should be amended. The majority agree that these are important points, which should be looked at and assessed in detail, but that this may not be a matter we should debate in detail in the Stortinget, but consider in a broader context. I refer you to letters from the Council of State on the current review of the diet-benefit model. I think it is natural that this is also assessed in such a context, and assumes that it will be done. For my part, I would like to add that I think it is positive that the Council of State also addresses this matter on its own initiative. In my opinion, this is not really party politics in itself, this is and is going to be part of our common decision-making base. On several occasions, the Stortinget has debated our diet-benefit model – which is a bit strange – and has sometimes made changes too, then to the positive. Most typically and perhaps almost as a caricature is the change you made when you changed the calculation rate on the Norwegian side because Svinesundbrua was profitable only on the Swedish side. But also other aspects of our model make it not suitable for assessing the full socio-economic benefits. In NTP and in our annual budgets, reference is made to the overall cost-benefit of the proposed projects. This, in my view, gives a false picture of the social benefits of the projects. Transport benefits are not social benefits. Transport benefits measure the self-benefit of the project from clearly defined and quantifiable variables, such as time, accident costs, construction costs, etc. What's interesting is that society benefits from the projects, and we don't measure them in Norway. Let me use an illustration from this city, the Bjørvika Tunnel, which is Norway's worst project, measured by the cost-benefit model we use. We talked in the last case about the best, so the Bjørvika tunnel is the worst. Of course, the community and the city of Oslo have enormous benefits from this project, but as the model is designed, it doesn't come from the results. And that's of course because the time aspect of the model is very important. That is important enough, but there are also some other things that should be considered. Here I would like to refer to what is part of our basis for dealing with this matter, namely the Danish-German link over Fehmarn Belt between Denmark and Germany. It uses and measures the dynamic and strategic impact of investments, in addition to the ordinary cost-benefit. The benefits and effects for businesses, business clusters, commercial activities, tourism, the labour market and, of course, housing are then identified. In addition, a study has been carried out assessing the regional effects of precisely these nutritional and housing effects. This is done in a separate report. In the large high-speed investigation, which was presented a few years ago by the German consulting company, we also got acquainted with other models in Norway, and at least it seems that I was very positive and instructive. I therefore believe that we should learn from this, and take it further with us in our work. That is what the Committee is asking for. That is why we are putting forward a proposal for a decision that the government will come back to Stortinget with a case on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1357	I would like to start by saying that I disagree with the rapporteur that this is a very important matter. Sometimes it strikes me that we spend time discussing things that really don't matter so much, at least not so much that it justifies the time we spend discussing them. This case, about the method of calculation and change in the method of calculation for the social benefit of investments in road and rail, I think is such a case. There is an ongoing debate, and there has been an ongoing debate for a long time, whether we calculate socio-economic benefits in the right way. Do we use the right depreciation time, the right interest rate and the right hourly rate? Or should more factors be involved? Societal economic analysis is one of several tools used as a basis for decision-making for our policy decisions, where political judgement is the most important decision-making tool and what we take the decisions. If the socio-economic analyses had been the only one we used when prioritizing transport projects, and if we had not made political judgement, it would have been incredibly important to put in place changes and adaptations in how we calculate societal benefits. But luckily, it's not like that. As politicians, we reserve the right to use our political judgement when prioritizing projects, and I am pleased about that. That's exactly why I'm a politician – to use political judgement and to prioritise. I don't need a socio-economic calculation method to tell me that the Bjørvika project is socially positive – I can use my political judgement to see it. However, I would like to stress that we are of course pleased that the Council of State and the Ministry are working on improving the socio-economic analysis and believe that changes need to be considered in a broader context, as we note that the ministry is now doing. For our part, we will await the department's assessments and therefore do not see the need to participate in the recommendation of the majority of the transport committee. In order not to further contribute to spending time on this debate, I use my political discretion to take up the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which is reflected in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1370	The representative Susanne Bratli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1373	I could almost have intended to start with the previous speaker's slightly negative attitude to this proposal, but I'm not going to do it for now. I understand that there may be a lot of people – at least on the outside of this room – who seem to be talking about changes in calculation methods for the social benefits of road and rail investments, either sexy or very exciting. But this is very important, because it is about the framework on which to base the calculation of whether a project is profitable or not. A good example of a project that showed to the full both the hopelessness and the differences in results from one country to another was Svinesundbrua. This was a very profitable project in Sweden, which included: suggest a completely different interest rate, and where the authorities in the pure hallelujah mood wanted to get started as soon as possible, because the project was very profitable and the authorities wanted to implement it as soon as possible. On the Norwegian side, however, it was concluded that this was not profitable, and a calculation rate of 6 pst was applied at that time. After much discussion, yes, almost a spectre, it was decided that the internal interest rate on infrastructure projects would be reduced to 4,5 pst. in Norway. So the project that was unprofitable suddenly became profitable. But we believe that it is now time for further changes in the calculation methods for the social benefit of road and rail investment. We think you should look a little beyond your own borders and see what you do in other countries around us. In Sweden, the use of infrastructure investment is calculated for 40 years in the future, in Denmark for 50 years, and in the United Kingdom for 60 years. In Norway, an analysis period of 25 years is used, which can make infrastructure investment in Norway less profitable. We therefore believe that the analysis period should be extended to 60 years also in Norway. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport says that it is now time to assess whether the analysis period should be extended in line with the proposals of the Progress Party and that a decision can be taken as early as 2011. Furthermore, the value of people's time should be increased from today's 60 SEK to 200 SEK, which is much more in line with actual circumstances, and the assumptions about socio-economic losses justified by the loss of tax revenue from the financing of projects must be removed, while reducing the return on income from today's 4.5 pst. up to 2.5 pst. These are also proposals which are very simple to implement and simple to use. Such conversion could also help to re-prioritize from short-term to longer-term projects, and, above all, to increase the profitability of domestic investment in roads and railways. These changes will also contribute to investments that benefit our descendants, in the form of a society that is more productive and well-functioning, by expanding more infrastructure on the road and paving the way faster than you can with the calculation methods you have today. That's why I understand the Workers' Party's Susanne Bratli's argument that it's the politicians who finally make the decisions. But we know that there are some people around in the departments who have a very strong influence on the decisions taken in this room, so despite political desire to implement proper infrastructure projects, there are therefore some in the bureaucracy who make sure that that doesn't happen. This is why it is important to ensure that there are methods of calculation that are as far as possible in line with what you have, not least in the rest of Europe and elsewhere, so that you can better identify, in a proper way, that projects, which for some with current calculations are not profitable, are actually profitable, if you base other criteria, and as you see other countries use, to say that projects and infrastructure investments are profitable, rather than doing as in Norway, where you say they are not profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1384	Is it so that the representative will address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1387	Very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1392	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1395	I think that socio-economic analyses are important. I therefore believe that the proposal on which the Christian People's Party is present today is both constructive and exciting. I don't share all the considerations in the proposal, but I actually think it's very important that we, as politicians, are involved in ensuring that these types of analyses are as good as possible from a qualitative point of view. There's also reason to ask, have we made all the right decisions within this field? It is clear that political judgement is also influenced by the underlying basis of analysis. Then we have to make sure that it gets the best possible. That is why I agree with Mr Halleraker, who says this is an important matter. It's our responsibility as politicians to make this tool even better. That is why the Christian People's Party is also behind the proposal for a decision of the Committee of the European Parliament, which calls on the government to come back to the Stortinget with an expanded socio-economic analysis basis for precisely large projects in line with the practice of our neighbouring countries. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether we have anything to learn from our neighbouring countries in this area, when we see that there are very different experiences with different projects, but also that projects that are relatively similar get a completely different assessment based on the socio-economic planning tools a user uses. I am in favour of the proposal from the Progress Party. I still don't want to go into the details of it. It is because I thought it was wrong that the Storing should go into some details. For example, I do not have the basis to consider the professional criterion of increasing life expectancy from 25 years to 60 years, as the proposal states. Should it be 70 years old? Should it be 55 years old? I have a great sense of point (b) of the proposal, which deals with how we evaluate people's time. That it is estimated at NOK 60 per hour, based on my political judgement at least, is extremely hopeless. I don't think it's a basis of calculation that we recognize. That is why we ask the government to come back with a more holistic approach to this. What I think is constructive, and it also means that we can get a better ride for future decisions in the transport sector. I think that's what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1407	In deciding on investments in transport infrastructure, it is important that we have a good professional basis. It is good that the committee agrees. Let me underline that it must be a professional base. Then, of course, we have to make political judgements where the professional background is not covering. We can and should never get there that priorities are just a professional question. The professional evidence we have for such decisions in Norway can, of course, be better. It will be worked on both in the department and in the professional community. Such work also assesses what we can learn from other countries. Of course, we should not commit ourselves to doing such a thing in other countries without further ado. We're going to look at other countries, but then we're going to do what we think is the best. In my letter to the Committee of 17 August this year, it is done for ongoing work. It is also shown that some of the elements of the draft representative are based on misunderstandings about what is being done today, among other things. when it relates to time values and lifetimes that are used in the cost-benefit analysis. The proposal for a representative states that the estimated lifetime should be increased from 25 to 60 years. The submitted starting point is incorrect. In today’s analysis, the technical life span varies from 35 to 75 years, depending on the type of measures involved. The analysis period is 25 years with retained residual values for remaining life. It is particularly challenging to increase the analysis period, among other things. because, after 25 years, progress has to be made. Of course, predictions beyond the age of 25 are even more uncertain. However, together with transport establishments and other professional environments, the Ministry will assess whether the analysis period can be extended. We'll decide about that in the next year. However, there is a misunderstanding that changing the analysis period will give higher net benefits — it will depend on the individual project. The value of time — the time saved through new and better transport facilities — is important in the analysis. Values are determined on the basis of valuation studies and vary by purpose, length and means of transport. The value to which it is referred in the proposal for a representative, NOK 60, debt for short private travel. The value of other types of travel is much higher. The same applies to waiting time, time to escalating and delays. For a specific project, these different values are expected to be distributed by the travellers. A new valuation project is in the final phase, and will provide new values for time and for other factors. These will be used as soon as practicable. Tax funding for public actions entails costs for society that need to be included in the socio-economic analysis. This is not specific to measures in the transport sector, but applies to all analyses carried out by or for the central government. It is a sound professional basis to use such a factor, even if size is unsafe. The Ministry of Finance has, after an overall assessment, set the tax costs at 20 pst. That's what we're doing in our sector. Then, in the proposal for a representative, proposals are made to reduce the return requirement from 4.5 pst. up to 2.5 pst. It is an interest rate fixed by the Ministry of Transport on the basis of general guidelines given by the Ministry of Finance. Interest rates are useful for analysing projects and actions from a 25-year perspective and should therefore not be adjusted to short-term changes in interest rates that can be observed in the money market. The interest rate on the calculation consists of a risk-free interest rate of 2 pst. and a risk premium. For smaller actions, a 2 pst risk premium can be used. Then the calculation rate becomes 4 pst. The Ministry of Transport uses a calculation rate for the transport sector of 4,5 pst. Finally, let me say that when it comes to the recommendation for a decision, where a request is made for the government to come back with a case on the ‘extended socio-economic analysis basis’, it is therefore being worked on in the ministry. Two projects have been started. I would like to give you an idea of how the results of these calculations can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1433	The Council of State has explained its answers in the letter attached to the matter. Let me focus on one aspect: what is particularly risky about investing in large road installations and large railway installations in Norway? So it's the Ministry of Transport itself – if we're going to believe what it says – and not the Ministry of Finance that puts the risk supplement to a total of 2.5 pst. of the 4.5% used to calculate socio-economic benefits. What is the great risk – I repeat – of investing in major railway and road projects in Norway? Many users are screaming for a more efficient transport system. What is the risk of carrying out such investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1440	Let me say something more about the distribution work that is now going on and that will therefore go further into the cost-benefit models that are being used in our sector. So there are two projects that are in progress and that will affect the roll-out of the national transport plan. When the calculation rate for the transport sector is now 4,5 pst., it is also after a breakdown made for this sector. There are different ways of managing systematic risk. That's the way that's chosen so far in Norway. Other countries have other models. We're looking at them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1445	Of course, the politicians and the political discretion are going to decide the projects we invest in, so I am very happy that the Council of State does not have the same confused approach to this as we have heard today. I'm also very happy that the Council of States, through its work on the new model, which thus describes interactions, has taken this up. That's exactly what I brought up in my post. I maintain that in Norway we calculate a benefit of the project's own benefits, i.e. the benefits of transport, and not the benefits to society as a whole, and that's what might be missing. Other countries attempt to analyse this in addition to dietary models. Is the Council of State in contact with other countries to also assess whether we get simultaneous models in Norway and the rest of Scandinavia?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1452	I share many of Halleraker's considerations about this. It came out both of his and my post. To the question: the purpose of the work we have seen is to identify and estimate the long-term effects of transport projects that work through changes in business, labour market and construction. This will include – we will say the comprehensive analysis that he is asking for, and also experience from other countries. Let me also say that there are other work under the direction of the Ministry of Transport and various transport modes within parts of this proposal from the Progress Party, even if it has not been initiated from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1459	I also thought the Council of State was very clear that she saw the importance of this to a much greater extent than the representative Bratli. State councils are now involved in some of the details of their articles. what goes on the value of people's time. State councils say it's for short private travel, that is, the leisure time that many people experience is getting shorter and shorter. Now I understand that this should be assessed in a health care unit. But doesn't the Council of State think that 60 kroner per hour for our leisure time is a relatively low value, and that there's reason to look closer to this, obviously from a holistic perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1466	Now I was introductoryly careful to stress that it is good for us elected representatives to draw conclusions, to have professional support. Then, finally, make political priorities. Let me not speed up the analysis work that is being done. What was important for me to stress today is that the 60 kroner referred to in the proposal for a representative apply to short private travel. This means that the value of other types of travel then has been seen to be much higher, and it also applies to waiting time, time to escalate, and other delays. When our work has come a little further, I would like to come back to this matter and orientate the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1473	I registered that the council said she would come back when the work had come a little further. So I registered what she said about 60 kroner, and what the time off is worth. But it says here that it's in the final phase, so I hope it's not going to be very long. It would have been very nice if the council could be a little more clear when she expects things to be done, because if you just say that it's in the final phase or that you're going to come back, it can take a long time before it comes. I want to go back to this with the return claim and the reduction there. From the Ministry of Finance, you're down to 4 pst. There's a very high risk of postponing expansions too. The wolf – Sinsen is probably an example of costs running smoothly, because the first cost estimates on the table were not started. I would very much like to challenge the Council of State on why you don't mean that 4 pst. is more correct. This is good investment because it gives a lot back.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1480	I said I'm coming back in 2011. So that's right, this is a work that's in the final phase. Several analyses are carried out, another type of work is started which will also provide a basis for the assessments to be made in connection with the rolling of the national transport plan. When it comes to changing the calculation rate, it's a recurring discussion. It's good that people are busy with it. At the same time, this rate will be used to analyse projects and actions from a 25-year perspective, and will therefore also have to be defined in the longer term. But let me come back to that case in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1487	I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that the Council of State has now shown us that it is working in the department, almost as expressed in this proposal. It's a contradiction to what Susanne Bratli thinks, that there's no need for any analysis in the back. The Transport and Communications Committee was under inspection in the United States and Canada not long ago. There we were presented plans that went over at least 30 years, and that took into account the likely development of housing patterns, etc., which is something beyond what has been laid down in today's planning. Could the Council of State plan to include it in future plans as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1495	Let me first say that I thought Susanne Bratli held a liberating and good post from the situation that what we're dealing with today, is a Document No. 8-proposals where a begging government comes back. The party's proposal for progress is concrete and based on some misunderstandings as well. But the committee is asking the government to come back with proposals for a point where a work has already been started. As you can see, Susanne Bratli has so absolutely everything on the dry side. This is a work that will be notified back to Stortinget. So when it comes to Myraune's question, the main point is just how transport projects work through changes in business, the labour market and construction – i.e. in a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1502	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1505	Very short - which may be the last article. At least we are happy that the Council of State and the Department are working seriously to look at the areas that we have specifically pointed out. They have been repeated from the pulpit, the written considerations which have also been sent from the ministry on the proposal. We're happy with that. But even if we're going to get back to this, also an extended arithmetic concept, we're concerned that we can do some grip right away. We're not alone in this. We know that we have the support of research teams, who say something such as that it is easy to operate and apply the four concrete proposals that come from the Progress Party today – which are not based on any misunderstandings but point to concrete changes. It is worth noting again that in neighbouring Sweden, 40 years are used instead of 25 years. They may know something we don't know – or vice versa. At least there's a difference there as well. The other of us have used the Svinesund compound as an example of different calculation methods in Sweden and Norway. So here's an example of a different way of thinking about it. And then finally, I have to go back to this with a risk supplement. It would probably have been easier to say it directly as it is, that it is the Ministry of Finance that controls this, that does not want important and large transport projects to be shown with full, clear profitability. When using a risk supplement, as described in the Correspondence Letter from the Ministry of Transport, there are similar requirements for investment in road and rail in Norway as for investment in the financial market worldwide. 4.5 pst. is approximately the same nominal yield as the Oil Fund. And here we're talking about investment in real estate in our own country, which is very valuable, and which lasts for a long time. We believe that they last for several more than 25 years. That's what we do, demonstratively close, in the real world, too, because we have routes and road sections that are far older than 25 years old. It is therefore strange that there is almost a doubt about a solution that should not show the high profitability of large infrastructure projects, especially because such a change as the Progress Party proposes will contribute to a re-prioritisation from short-term to longer-term proposals. It's strange, but still happy that there's movement in the Ministry of Transport. I hope they get permission from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1516	I have been very positive to the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa on several occasions today. I have given her honor to come up with matters that she is working on, and that she has actually also submitted. But her last post cannot stand undisputed. It is therefore part of the procedure for the Ministry to submit a letter on what they think about the proposal, which starts as a document of the Progress Party 8 proposal. In this letter it appears that the department is working on a conversion and a study of the cost-benefit model. Stortinget will know that through this letter – then we are dealing with this matter. Then I don't think there needs to spread an opinion in the government parties that we others just have to sit quietly in the boat. We're here to pursue politics, we're here to promote our political views and what we believe in. That's enough, whether you like it or not, that when matters come to consideration, we deal with the things that we think are important – so also in this case. When it is that there is some coincidence – if not completely – between what we are asking for in our proposal for a decision, and what the Council of State explains in its letter, it is precisely because we justify our proposal for a decision with what has been raised in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1528	It is possible that this exit is based on a misunderstanding. I think it has been well known for a long time that the Department has seen work going on both when it comes to dieting and when it comes to acquiring experience from other countries — at least it has been said in the context of experience from other countries when it comes to different ways of financing transport projects. When I asked for the word, it was only to say in the end that I thought it was good that the committee on the one hand is impatient with the intention of getting the most possible project in place – both on the road and on the road – and getting the most possible for the money. But then in this field there is a need to have a professional basis for the political decisions. So it's also good that the committee majority gives us the time we need in the ministry to come up with such a basis. So it's a little striking that the Progress Party at this stage is very impatient. At the same time, in the previous case, they were willing to send Sokna–Örgenvika on a new desert migration – Sokna–Örgenvika, which has been debated for more than 70 years, which has doctors ready, more or less, since 1974. So the tolls are more important than having one project realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1537	In fact, I thought that in this case I have been quite kind to and positive to the Council of State. But when the Council of State thus concludes the debate by trying to pretend that there are some political parties who want to push the previous matter out in time, they are very concrete here, I actually think that the Council of State should go back to its office and read the Progress Party's alternative proposal for the National Transport Plan. She should perhaps also read the 2010 Alternative State Budget of the Advance Party. Then you will see that there is an offensive investment in infrastructure construction. And maybe you'll see that instead of investing in some international companies, we think it might actually make sense to spend some of that money and make a real investment in Norway. When you pick up oil from the North Sea, it could actually make sense to use it for asphalt in Norway, instead of investing in foreign companies. Then we had built the Sokna–Örgenvika just as quickly as the government – probably faster. The fact that you have been in office for 70 years cannot be blamed on the Advancement Party at least, because we have not existed as a party for that long. But the centre party has probably existed for so long, so maybe the centre party and the council should take some of the blame for the long time that that matter has been allowed to touring back and forth. We actually think it was very good here. I was very pleased that the Council of State said that some of these criteria are now being worked on. Then I think it is a little sad that the Council of State chose such a conclusion to a slightly positive debate. At least we wanted to be positive to the Council of State. But I hope that the Council of State will go back and read documents that the Progress Party is promoting in this Chamber, and see that it will be a major expansion – and far more offensive than the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1544	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1562	I think it's a very important matter we're in the lead right now. That's how the bus accounts for most public travel. He actually stands for 65 pst. of the collective voyages in that country, and are thus the tribe of collective voyages in Norway. The need is therefore 1500–2,000 bus drivers a year – this is what the industry estimates – and so we see that in 2009 we got 300 new bus drivers into the profession. We can also read in today’s VG that we are now establishing our own driver training abroad. In Slovakia and Germany, a driver is trained to run in the Oslo area. The Professional Traffic Association is now saying that seven out of ten bus drivers who come to the Oslo area come from abroad. The reasons for this are several. The one thing is positive; we have a larger bus offer, there are several who take the bus – that’s good. So we also see that we have a high average age among bus drivers, it's expensive to take the driver card, and there's fewer who take it in the military. I want to get closer to this, and I want to look at the education section first. So it costs between 70 000 kroner and 100 000 kroner today to obtain the driver's card and the certificate of competence required for the job as a professional driver. Today, all those required to take a bus driver’s licence must also take basic training as a professional driver, i.e. in order to be able to work as drivers of a bus or minibus. This training must either take place at one of the secondary schools providing this training, or at one of the traffic schools approved as a place of learning. And then there's another point that I was in. It is clear that traditionally many have taken this training while in the military. The military has been through a significantly changed structure, and today it is that 1/3 of young Norwegian men enter the military. That part wasn't much higher for many years ago, and many of them used the ability to take the bus certificate, to drive the bus, right in the Defense Department. This is also how the bus industry thinks it should be easier to recruit young people to the profession. One thing the bus industry has also highlighted is that the age limit for driving a bus should be less than 21 for those who are in a training course. I mean this is something that has to be evaluated. I have not concluded in relation to it, but I'm excited about the Council of State's reaction. Today, there is a significant difference between the age limit for taking a bus certificate and for taking a train certificate. One has to see this from the perspective that one has challenges with recruitment into the industry. Very many people in this age group, aged 18 to 21, make a choice. That is why more people can drive a train well than a bus. If we look at the age distribution among bus drivers today, it's like 70 pst. of employees over 40 years of age, and 41 pst. of drivers over 50 years of age. If we compare them to other industries, we see that there's a lot higher numbers here. I also want to point out good examples and suggestions that I think we should take with us now. In Hordaland, the county has financed the training in cooperation with Tide, Nobina, Modalen–Eksingedalen Billag and Nav. In addition, they provide jobs for at least the next three years for those taking training. For this, the county has seen 2 million. kr, to achieve 20-25 settings. There is no doubt that this type of agent has produced positive results. It's also that it takes 280 hours, or eight weeks, to take a regular bus certificate. The Loan Fund usually does not support training of a shorter duration than four months. In addition, costs amounting to around 70 000 – well above the Loan Fund framework for support for school schemes. Both share out of the Loan Fund's scope for support, both because education is too short for a period of time, and because the cost is too high. Nav also assesses costs that are too high in relation to the length of education and the support framework per person. Here, however, some exceptions have been made, but this is based on an individual basis. I mean the situation we're facing is a big challenge. We see that the bus as a collective means is very important. We are forced to ensure an education. I therefore believe that we must at least come up with proposals in line with the financing model that Hordaland County Municipality has come with. I also believe that we should consider measures against the Loan Fund, so that it can be a better tool when this is the case. I have not concluded. But I would particularly challenge the Council of State to assess the age limit for training in driving a bus – without my having drawn a conclusion in this way. I therefore look forward to the Council’s response to this challenge, and am also excited about how it assesses the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1592	The bus is a very important means of transport. Every day, thousands of people take the bus. For many, the bus is the only way to get to school, work or leisure activities. In the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019, the government is involved in strengthening the organisation of public transport. In order to achieve the objective of better emergence and the environment, the number of journeys by collective means of transport must be increased, while at the same time reducing the number of journeys by private car. The government adds NTP to several actions that will help to increase collective use. Without enough bus drivers, the measures will not have the desired effect. I thought it was very good that we in Stortinget got this discussion today. According to industry figures, as we've already heard, there's an annual need for between 1,500 and 2,000 new drivers. The Directorate of Roads may indicate that today fewer driver cards are being issued for buses than 10 years ago. In 2009, 1 103 people took driving licences for buses. Of these, about one third took the necessary training in 2009 in order to exercise the right to drive in the profession of bus driver. In addition, there are high average ages among bus drivers. In total, this means that there are clearly too few bus drivers compared to the need. According to information from Nav, the lack of labour in the transport sector declined slightly in 2010 and is lower than the number from the industry. Recruitment to the bus driver's profession is, however, something of which both myself and the government are busy, primarily in order to get a lift for public transport, which in turn will provide a better appearance, a better environment and have a positive impact on road safety. Recruitment ratios depend on many factors: overall labour market conditions; public framework factors related to, among others. requirements for the pursuit of the profession and the status and employment of the profession concerned. As I see it, there are in particular three types of measures that, in the present situation, may have an impact on the recruitment of the bus driver. These are measures related to employment and training, including funding for studies, and the age requirement for starting the profession. Let me say something about employment: the industry has a decisive responsibility for the employment situation and changed to the profession. It is therefore important that the industry takes its share of the responsibility for securing recruitment. Industry has launched a campaign to promote recruitment. The Ministry of Transport believes this is an affordable measure and has supported the 500,000 kroner campaign. The age limit for driving rights for buses is 21 today. The Professional Directive opens up the possibility of reducing the age limit to 18 years on own territory and on routes less than 50 km. In the implementation of the Professional Managers Directive in Norwegian legislation through the Professional Managers’ Ordinance in 2008, no lower age limit was opened than the standard driver’s card age for bus driver cards. The reason for this was that such a change had to be carefully assessed in terms of road safety. It can be said that in 2009, from 70 to 75 years, the age limit for driving seats for authorised passenger transport was increased precisely in order to allow more people to remain in the profession. The industry claims that a new measure to increase recruitment to the bus driver’s profession is to lower the age limit, among other things. because today's training system for professional drivers causes those taking training in secondary schools and entering into apprenticeships with a company to start off with freight services because they do not meet the age requirements for passenger transport. So I asked the Directorate of Roads this year to review how to lower the age limit in order to take a bus in a professional context. In the assessment of whether the age limit for driving buses should be reduced, the accident risk for drivers of different age groups is an important factor. It is more or less impossible to find material that might say something about the risk to bus drivers under 21 years of age, since very few countries with which comparison is natural have experience of a particular time at a lower age level. Finland and Germany have had an 18-year age limit for professional drivers’ bus introduced in 2008. Sweden has recently opened up to reduce the age limit for bus drivers to 18 years for running on routes below 50 km and on its own territory. It is an undertaking that the person concerned is included in a course of vocational training in an advanced school. The background to the change in Sweden was a great need for new drivers. The Swedish distribution concludes that accident statistics speak neither for nor against a reduction in age reductions. It is difficult to draw parallels to running with a passenger car. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether there is age in itself or experience that reduces the risk of accidents. However, it is too early to draw any clear experience on road safety from these countries. In the case of vehicle combinations, the age limit is 18 years. There are some studies of the relationship between the risk and age of drivers of combinations of vehicles. It is relevant to use this group as a basis for assessing the risks also among bus drivers, as there is little reason to believe that the relationship between age and accident risk is particularly different for these two groups of professional drivers. One of the challenges facing a bus driver can be difficult or dangerous situations related to passengers. Contact with passengers and resolution of conflicts may be easier for one with life experience. This could be done, for example, by: are about to show away people rushing away. Without research into this, it is close to reckoning that maturity and age will be useful in such a context. The Swedish version also refers to this as a factor which speaks against lowering the age limit. Training providers and industry are given a special responsibility here to ensure that drivers are adequately able to deal with different challenges. For education, let me say that an important condition to be able to recommend, if necessary, a lower age for driving buses with passengers is that drivers are given targeted and good training. Cooperation between industry and the administrative authorities is necessary to facilitate, as far as possible, the ability to work as a bus driver in a safe, easy-to-use and environmentally friendly manner. Today, the training of drivers for heavy goods vehicles in this country lies under two different management bodies, depending on whether the training is given by continuing schools or by private traffic schools. The continuing schools providing such training belong to the county council, the private actors are part of the administration of the state road administration. In addition, many heavy-duty car training is conducted in the Defence Department, either at the Armed Forces' approved traffic ball or at another approved traffic ball where the Defense has purchased the training, but these are thus in numbers decreasing. They are, in any case, under the authority of the State Road Administration. Further schools offer two vocational training courses. For the first time, continuing training is completed with a professional qualification in the profession. This includes a ten-week course for people who are required to enter into a learning contract under the Training Act. In reality, due to the age requirement for buses, this is only relevant for truck and train drivers. In addition, a 19-week course is also being conducted under the direction of the continuing school, which ends with the State Road Administration's exam. One of the last recording requirements is to have completed the age requirement to take a driver card for the current driving licence class. This is an education that competes in the same way as private actors offering the same skills. For the first time, it will only be appropriate to consider reducing the age limit for those involved in a course of training with a learning contract. I also see that as being in line with what the industry itself wants. So the interpellant mentioned a number of other constructive contributions, both through Nav, through the Hordaland County Municipality and in other ways. He asked questions about the study funding scheme for professional driver training. It's a question I want to address with the education board powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1626	I would like to thank you for the thorough distribution from the Council of State. I say I very much agree with the description of the situation that the Council of State here gives. Governments also spent a lot of time going through – I would say – the demanding assessment of the age situation. It is clear that road safety must be a pillar of all transport policy. However, in the age group between 18 and 21, a choice is often made as to which education to take. With the benefit of freight transport today, it becomes very much a freight transport. They never really get a real chance to choose the bus industry. When we are going to bet on collective transport, we are facing a formidable challenge. As I interpret the Council of State, she has asked the Directorate of Road for a new assessment. I also record that she has not concluded when this is the case. I have not done that either, but I think it is wise to take a new assessment. But I would like to say that in this assessment I hope the Minister can bring with him academics and also important professional recordings, for example. from Safe Traffic, which I know has been critical of this. But it is important that those who are competent see the health and also use the international experience. Should an age requirement be lowered, it is important that it is done in the manner stated by the Council of State, through an educational system combined with a lower age. This ensures a framework for bus drivers, where they get a better follow-up, and experience will show that it will be very important. I also think it is very important that we look at the legislation in the Loan Fund. Both the amount of the cost and the duration of the training lead to a fall in the bus driver’s profession. It should be changed. The government has its own coordination minister who should thus be challenged on this matter, because this is a regulation that affects the transport industries very much and to which the Minister of Education has his relationship. Then I also thought that there was some flexibility within Nav, but that flexibility is being shown, creating some challenges, because there are stories about some people who have received support for the bus driver's tag, and about others who haven't. It creates an injustice. Here it has to be clearer, but I feel that the Council of State will now take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1641	I found both the comments and the questions that come from the committee leader to be most relevant. Let me first comment on something more when it comes to road safety, because that's what a lot of this is about. On the one hand, there is a need to recruit several drivers to strengthen collective provision and, at the same time, this assessment of, among other things. age. It is a fact that among passenger drivers it is the youngest drivers who have the highest accident risk. Whether it comes from lack of experience, or whether it is age as an independent factor, is more uncertain. A higher age argument for driving licences for heavy goods vehicles than for passenger cars is that it allows drivers to gain more experience in driving before they start running heavy goods vehicles. There is good evidence that the accident risk is very high for drivers who have just received a driving licence and started running alone, and that the risk decreases very quickly in the first time. Then there's a recent report on 130 vehicle train accidents. It's the accident analysis teams of the State Road Administration that delivered him. Mistakes and lack of experience have also been assessed. It is pointed out that if errors are caused by lack of experience, the risk of a heavy-duty driver with half a year’s running experience will be the same if one is 181⁄2 or if one is 211⁄2 years old. However, if the higher risk for young people is related to age — the development of the brain, sensory system and evaluation — the risk of accidents may be reduced by a higher age limit. This is a moment when the State Road Service – or the Road Directorate in this case – must take into account the assessments they are now asked to make. The interpellant also refers to this discrimination, as someone may perceive it as, if anyone gets the possibility within Nav and others not. There is something that also applies in some other cases to those who come under such measures. When it comes to this part of the question, i.e. that relating to traffic security and age, there must in any case be careful evaluations in other contexts as well. So here both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour – and of course Safety Traffic and many other organisations – are relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1654	It's an important and interesting question that is raised in this interview. It's a question that we need to have a awake eye with, and that we actually have to discuss, because maybe you have to meet some conflicting goal. There may be a contradiction between the discussion about reducing the age limit for bus drivers and achieving greater road safety, for example: In any case, the starting point must be that we have a political goal of increasing the collective share. In order to increase the collective share, we also need bus drivers. Hopefully we have to have more bus drivers, because we're going to have more buses in the future. That's a big challenge. The challenge is not limited to the bus industry, as there is generally a struggle for the labour force now. That fight is going on in all sectors, and you have to fight for the same workforce, because we need more health workers, we need more bus drivers, we need more teachers and pre-school teachers, and that's not enough people. If you are finally to be able to win this game, you are primarily dependent on active recruitment and an industry and a profession that has a good reputation. So that reputation is just the industry and the companies themselves that are able to build. It is not so often that the kids on the bus sing ‘A bus driver, a bus driver, it’s a man with a good mood’. It doesn't even have to be a man now to date. I checked with my own kids, and it's not often they've sung that song on the bus. This may mean that you have a different impression of a bus driver today than you had before. The industry has to grips with this, because they have to do something with that impression if you're going to be able to recruit. Of course, working conditions are another important part of the reputation and reputation of industry. We have heard stories about bus drivers who have not had particularly good working conditions. It has to be taken care of, and it has to be done by the industry itself. But the debate on age demands and age limits is an interesting discussion. Point one: the approach angle must be that no matter what we decide, it should not be at the expense of road safety. What we can record is that there is conflicting professional advice whether it makes sense to lower the age limit from 21 to 18 or not. There is a SINTEF report from 2006 that shows that there is a correlation between age and experience, while there are other documents that say it is not. So who do you believe in? What we know anyway, is that an 18-year-old who has a brand-new, regular driving licence has 40 times the accident risk that the rest of us do. It is not illogical to transfer this knowledge and think that the same might be the case for buses. I have to admit that I am skeptical about the proposal to reduce the age limit, but I have not concluded. I still think that it should be assessed, and I am pleased that the Directorate of Roads is going to send this out to the hearing, so that we get a broader professional basis for what is right. But in any case, the sum finally has to be that this shouldn't be negative for road safety, if we're going to consider lowering the age limit. Then, of course, we agree that we need to look at a regulation relating to study funding. I think it is positive that Nav arranges labour market training so that you can train more bus drivers. But at the end of the day, it is the reputation, reputation, of the bus driver profession that is the most important thing for recruiting people – and especially young people – to this profession, and that reputation is only the industry itself that can build.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1673	I also want to thank the interpellant for addressing a lot of important issues. I almost agree with everything. So it's always the case that there's some small things, but the little things we're a little bit disagreed about, we're more likely to put aside, because I think there's some really important issues that the interpellant is dealing with. I think the debate and speeches from both the Council of State and the interpellant have highlighted many of the issues we are facing, even if you want to allow younger people to take the note or not. I think it might have been an opportunity to do some attempts to see how this works. It could be a measure before starting this all over the line. I think we definitely have big challenges if we're going to be able to get more people to travel collectively. I do not agree with the Council that we shall do so at the expense of anything else. It may be the result, but then it should come as a consequence that people choose to use the collective offer in a positive way. But it's definitely a challenge here. When we're going to have more drivers and we already have a lack of drivers today, we have a big challenge if we're going to succeed in what the interpellant is dealing with here. There is also a problem with Nav, because what you see now, unlike the representative Bratli said, is that some of the challenge now is that Nav pulls out and no longer wants to be involved, because the costs are many places over 100 000 kroner to get a driving licence for heavy cars and buses. That means, of course, that no one can afford to do this without anyone else joining in and financing it. Then we have a challenge – when we know that we lack several thousand drivers – to be able to make sure that we have enough for the buses we already have, as well as to increase and expand by even more buses. Then I would like to say that I think it is important to bear in mind that it is not that the age of bus drivers gets high – I agree with the problem that I know that the interpellant is really very concerned about, namely that it gives a recruitment problem some time in the future – but it is clear that having many good, experienced drivers is also a strength for the industry, and I think it is important to bear in mind in this debate that there is no problem that those who are old are old. But it's a problem that in the long run there will be fewer of them, and so you have to recruit new ones. It's a huge challenge we're facing. We also had a treatment of the EU Directive in 2007, which has just been part of this by taking the note, and not least for those who are professional drivers. I have to say I'm a little worried because the majority then chose the most expensive solution and the most comprehensive solution. I definitely see that with regard to the road safety bit, there were good reasons that talked about choosing that solution. But now we are beginning to see the consequences of choosing that solution – that recruiting people for the profession is actually becoming even more difficult, and it will be a major challenge for the industry in the future. So I think it's absolutely something we really have to take seriously. I hope that the Council of State will be able to answer a little bit of a challenge concerning a test scheme for young people, because I think it is important that we make young people choose to be bus drivers, you have to have the same opportunities as you have if you, for example. chooses to drive a heavy truck of perhaps 56 tons, which is allowed if you are 18 years old and take your education in high school. There are some of the issues that I think are difficult, but where I definitely think we should conclude quickly, so that we can start doing something about the recruitment challenge we are facing. I also think this with the loan box is something you have to look at if you still see that Nav is going down. We know that there will be fewer in the defense that is inside the first time service, and so the possibility for a lot of people who took the note in the defense, but who can't do it anymore. So I think it's exciting the cooperation you've seen in Hordaland. I think it might be a collaboration that you have to try to challenge the industry even more, to be in several places – I think there are also quite a few other places, and we have seen today the news of foreign drivers coming to Norway in a big monn – if you want to be able to meet the recruitment challenges facing the industry. But as I said, I think it's a very important interpellation that the representative Hareide has pulled up today. I think there have been many important things in the debate, but I would also like to remind you that you might want to consider whether you should reduce the amount of education, because it is very expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1694	First, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising a very timely question. We've spent a lot of time in the last few days here discussing the pricing of cows and other traffic-reduction measures, and to a great extent, seen with my eyes, what are the alternatives. That's some of what we're talking about right now. Should we tell all those who live in and around our cities that they should put the car back at home, it requires that the same people have an alternative to travel with. So what's the alternative? Well, the alternative is that before we take all the traffic-limiting measures that we've been talking about a lot, we're building up public transport. Then we don't get through with one thought in our head, but we have to think more. Everyone does not have the ability to drive trains or tracks, but the bus is the alternative to the car too very, very many. If we are going to drive a bus, we are dependent on drivers, and then we are at the heart of the issue that we are discussing in the debate now. The interpellant has described that the industry is struggling with recruitment, and he has also raised several issues where the solution can be found. As a former officer, I may not want to move the responsibility for driver training back to the Defense Department. We'll have to think about new and more forward-looking and lasting solutions. But in the hearing in the Transport and Communications Committee last week, there were also several of the hearing bodies that were faced with exactly the same challenges, and both the LO and the Transport and Communications Association raised just the issues we are now talking about, and as far as I was awake during the hearing – which I think I was – I noticed at least three proposals for solutions, and they have been affected today. One is to strengthen education and look at the lower age limit, the other is to look at the challenges of the State Lending Fund for Education, so that more people come under those schemes than today, and the third is the challenge of Nav today purchasing far fewer response places in the field of vocational training. Let me start with the last one. According to the Hearing Officers, Nav has reduced its bet by a total of 70 psts, as a result of the increase in costs currently incurred by several representatives. in the case of purchasing driver training, in the last six months. It should be unproblematic for the Storting to make Nav look at this practice, not least in relation to a previous inter-pelling debate here today on Nav’s roles and opportunities for action. With regard to the issue of a lower age limit for driving heavier vehicles, neither the Right nor I have concluded. My recommendation is that it should not be done by too many others until we have more facts on the table. As several of the representatives have been involved, it is in other contexts that it is the youngest drivers that pose the greatest risk to traffic. Is it then a solution to let the youngest out on the road with more and larger vehicles than today? I think the answer to that is no, but of course I'm open to reconsider when there's more facts. I don't think it's right that we set the bus industry up against the truck industry, some of which has been involved, because we know that the recruitment challenges are great for the entire transport industry. I think one of the suggestions might be that we need to stimulate the oldest to maybe stand even further in the job. I think that good adult drivers are good drivers as long as their health status allows them to work. With regard to the training scheme up to the driver’s profession, it has also changed a lot in recent years, and there are several paths up to the target. For young people, there is an upper secondary school in all the counties where they are at least part of the State Loan Fund scheme. Those who are not fully young, and who do not have an employer who can be involved in the fragmentation of the education process, have suddenly greater challenges. Therefore, it would be desirable, as many people have pointed out, to also look at the possibility of adjusting the criteria to the Loan Fund, so that we can use it as a recruitment measure. Once again, I would like to thank you for putting the theme on the agenda. I would also like to thank the Council of State for saying that she will look at the issues. Some people may think this is initially a small and narrow debate, but when we know, as many have been involved, that the goal is to get more of us to travel collectively, it is clear that then we are also totally dependent on having someone to drive these vehicles for us. So this is a pretty big challenge for us in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1715	I think the perhaps new coming leader of the Christian People's Party must have hit the flash with the center profile today, because everyone has come up and said that these were very good things. It's an important thing, it's good for the environment, and it's important that we discuss this. So it's a tribute to Hareide. In connection with this, it is clear that it is difficult to recruit people for more than one profession, including leadership positions, to which it may be difficult to get people to. So is it as simple as just solving this? Isn't there something about need and demand here, too, then, me and think? If one - as the Progress Party wishes - should sell as many cars as possible, does that mean that there will be more or less bus drivers? Or is it that what society wants more of, it becomes more of? Is it true that if we want a lot more people to take the bus and we value the bus driver's profession, they give a decent salary and make sure that they are not completely exposed to offer policies that make the job unsafe, then will more people choose that job? Is there any policy in this anyway, Hareide? Could it be that there are things like different parties that make less bus drivers? Could it be that in the Right Sphere, when it comes to making it as much as possible and as much as possible, and if you don't want to be able to sneak or drive a car, you don't get so much reward or you don't get so much brilliance to be practical? Could it be that that school also helps to reduce the number of professional drivers? I actually believe that, I do. I think it's politics in it too. I actually believe that what the red-green government is now doing in the school that Kristin Halvorsen is doing, making it more practical in the youth school and in the secondary school, will lead to an increase in the value of such a profession. It is not bad to be a professional anymore. In fact, the red-green government with the Prime Minister of knowledge appreciates this and now emphasise this in the plans developed for further education. I also experience this when I'm out with people, e.g. Eddi Eidsvåg in the Pub project, where an emphasis on mastering subjects so much that young people understand that it's actually something important they're doing. And that's what we have to have more of, and then we have to reward verbally and otherwise people who become tradesmen. If not, there will be a crisis compared to skilled workers. Then it'll be like it's now in the bus industry. In the Stavanger region the buses stood because there were no bus drivers. Fortunately, the Poles have come and helped us out of that crisis. If we hadn't had immigrants in this area, we wouldn't be able to solve that problem. Then the collective part had gone down. So one might say that even the issues of asylum and refugee policy have a bearing on the tasks that society can do if it looks at them that way. So here's a lot of politics, someone doesn't like to talk about, but everyone thought that what Hareide's doing is good, and Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa said that we need to have a proper review in all areas of what we've done, and what we're doing. Then I am very aware – to end with it – that within the field of the Loan Fund, loans, scholarships, regulations, both Right and others have drawn it up, and Hareide himself. We have to do a job there. I think it's important that we get more people to take the bus. And if we're going to get more people to take the bus, we're going to have to make sure that society is training bus drivers and the value of bus drivers is as much as car sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1730	If it is parliamentary, I am almost tempted to say: 'Oh my God!' But let me say a few things about the interpellation, which is important. It's actually far more important than just looking at the bus industry. It is such that there are recruitment challenges for the entire transport industry, and then it is not, with the address of the representative Langeland, only a question as to whether the bus is going, but it is actually a matter of whether the goods are going, if the vehicle trains are going, if the logistics stops. That is why it is from the National Association of Authorised Traffic Schools, from the Landsforening of Transport Companies and from Norway's Lastebileier-Federal Association has been sent a letter dated 29 September 2010 to three departments, not only to the Ministry of Transport, but also to the Ministry of Knowledge and to the Ministry of Labour. Let me be very ready to say that good employers are important. Of course, no matter what industry or industry it is, it is a great responsibility for both industries and businesses themselves to act as good and responsible employers. It is a responsibility from which no employer can or should not run. But it is also the case that governments are involved in setting a framework for different industries. And then – again with the address of the representative Langeland – it is actually in the years under this government's government that the recruitment problems have increased, just as in the care of the elderly. It's a government that's run alone without having to care about the opposition. But it is the government that is responsible for the framework conditions and the regime. It is just pointed out in one of the points of the letter to which I have now referred, which is entitled ‘Measures for recruitment to the transport industry’. With regard to the financing scheme for professional driver training, it is noted that since 2007, the number of driving licences in heavier classes has been reduced by more than 30 pst. At the same time, the cost of vocational training has increased by 100 pst. Let's stop a little bit by that. Thus, as others have pointed out, in March 2007, the Storting process dealt with the adaptation and transposition of EU directives in the context of driver training. I was the case rapporteur for the EEA case. It was a parallel case of law. The Progress Party stressed at the time that Norway: «within the framework of the Directive may and should facilitate a compressed variant as regards the basic qualifications. The Party considers such a variant to be important in order to ensure that basic qualifications are subject to a time and cost scale, which in practice appears to be recruiting to the driver’s profession and not to reject recruitment’. I'm afraid that's the last thing that's happened. The Directive opened for a compressed version of 140 hours. The government selected a full model of 280 hours. So a concrete measure is to switch to a compressed version of education and education, which will still provide good education and training, but at half of the price we know today. The first of four actions mentioned in this letter – then I go back to this newsletter – is the strengthening of cooperation on AMO measures between the industries and Nav. Since it refers to measures taken in Hordaland County – 2 million. NOK to get more drivers – I will also refer to the concern there. It is that when the county council enters with this good measure, you are afraid that Nav will go out. Of course, it doesn't have to be like that. It is therefore important to stress to the Minister for Transport that she has a job to do with her colleague in the Ministry of Labour. That is why this newsletter from three associations has also been sent to three departments. For this reason, the general letter as point 1 also highlighted the strengthening of cooperation on AMO measures between industries and Nav. This has been – and may still be – a major recruitment corridor into the transport sector, to be a driver in the transport industry. It is an important corridor that we have to take care of, and where we cannot accept that Nav withdraws and does not do his job – neither here, as they do not do their job in other areas. So here's where the council has an important follow-up job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1748	The representative himself was in doubt as to whether the expression he started his speech with was a parliamentary expression. The President cannot see that the term is a parliamentary term and should therefore not have been used in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1752	When my adviser for approx. 10 minutes ago came into my office and said, Lillian, now they're discussing your profession, I jumped up and thought that now I get the jam from the pulpit in this room. It is not often that this profession is debated here in the Chamber. But when that's said, that's how it was called for more facts. If I can come up with more facts from this pulpit, I'm a little insecure. But at least I can make some considerations based on the fact that I have been a bus driver on narrow roads in Lofoten for over 20 years. I think I am also the only bus driver who can talk about this profession in this house. As I said, I have over 20 years of experience. First of all, how can you recruit for this profession? Then I think it's good enough to strengthen education, but is there going to be a good way to recruit the profession? Maybe, maybe not. It probably depends on the type of arrangements and arrangements you have. If you give grants, maybe it'll be good. Then it's like there's a struggle for labor. Many people want the few work forces we have in this small country. It is neither in school nor in others that young people are encouraged to become bus drivers. No, on the contrary, one is encouraged to take higher education. That's what's being communicated to the youth today, and it's almost as if it's the only blessing. It is important to communicate that also being a bus driver is a very important piece in society for society to go around. Then something has also been said about working conditions, that they are very important. Yeah, they're really important. Then I also want to say in one sentence: it also includes road standard. I won't say more about it. So to another important thing, where it's starting to be a relatively good lift. That's the pay. It is important for the recruitment of this profession that we have a decent salary. And when I say "we," I mean we. Then I want to say something about the lower age limit. With the skills I have after so many years, it's hard for me to say that it's okay to lower the age limit. I think it's very important when you get an 18-year-old certificate, that you get a few years of experience behind the steering wheel before you get into a big bus that is responsible for 50 passengers and maybe more. I have to stop it. So it's actually done some grip of this government. You've increased your age limit upwards. What was suggested by someone was almost such that I realized that it was not. It's just changed, and it's actually allowed to drive a bus up until you're 75 years old. A different grip has also been made that is very important to us who are bus drivers, and it is that when transferring business, all the lengthyness is included. So it's very clear that this government has taken some action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1771	I want to thank you for a very good and interesting debate. I thought the last article specifically gave us a glimpse. I also know that the representative Hansen was involved in allowing more people to travel collectively. this summer. There are several perspectives that have been recorded here. I want to start by commenting on the Hoksruds report that there is no problem that we have many older drivers. In fact, we also have to think that some careers don't last a lifetime. I didn't come up with a better example, but if I'm a ballet dancer, you probably can't hold on to one is 70, but maybe one is 45. Then you can actually do a good job as a driver for 25 years. The type of thinking required, but in that case one has to be. ensure that the ability to acquire that competence is at an appropriate level. Then I totally agree with Susanne Bratli's assessments of it with age. However, I am pleased that the Council of State wants to assess it. When it comes to example, I believe that developments in the future are very important. I don't agree that we've had such a negative change of opinion in the driver's profession so far, but I think the next few years are going to be very decisive. That is why I also agree that this is an important challenge for the industry. I also support the representative Hallgeir Langeland, who says we have to look at the Loan Box, we have to look at the arrangements within Nav. The Council of State also says that it will challenge the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour. I'm very happy about that. But I disagree with Hallgeir Langeland's representative when he says that competition is necessarily unhealthy for recruitment. In fact, my experience of recruiting young people into the workplace is that competition is something attractive for very many young people. It can be a positive stimulus into just an exciting profession. The third thing I also think it is important that we continue our work on the basis of this debate is to get good, constructive arrangements. I have chosen to highlight the example from Hordaland, and I agree entirely with the representative Arne Sortevik that when the county council came up with the kind of arrangement that I would like to see on a national basis, it must not be that, for example. And then the hub cancels out. I think we have big challenges, but I'm actually looking at it more positively after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1788	I would like to thank you for a debate that I see as the only great common virtue. I met with the Transport Company's National Association, the Norwegian Transport Workers' Association and the Professional Traffic Association in our related recruitment of bus drivers. Then I wrote a letter to the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour on 7 June, because I thought it was necessary to bring them in and discuss this more closely. So this interpellation came on June 15. It has given both of us a very good opportunity to discuss this together, and it has given the Storting a good opportunity to discuss an area that will be very important in the future. I have received good input here today from both the interpellant, from the representative who has practised as a bus driver, and from all the others, including the representative Hoksrud, who asked if we could not assess a test scheme for any of this. I think it is important to include in our further work on this matter. The Minister of Education has written something about how many country lines there are. There are, therefore, 11 landlines that currently provide training in the professional driving profession. The Minister of Labour has told of the experience of Hordaland with Nav, and later it is also supplemented with the County Municipality of Hordaland. There's something to tell you that there's a width out there. If a lower driving licence age for buses and any other change in professional driver training is to be carried out, the relevant regulations need to be amended. This is why the Road Directorate is now hearing about the lower driving licence age for bus drivers. There is a hearing in which all actors who are the frame of any change are able to express themselves. From the Ministry of Transport in future, we want to keep in touch with relevant ministers, whom I have already mentioned, both with the Minister of Education and the Minister of Labour, and with relevant organisations to see what can be done further. I believe that the reference to bus drivers is something that they have to work with themselves, but it is actually something that all of us who take buses from time to time can help to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1803	Case No. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e1810	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2051	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2059	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the development of rv. 7 on the route Sokna–Örgenvika as described in Prop. 157 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2065	Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2092	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Susanne Bratli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that regulations and regulations relating to the calculation of the socio-economic benefit of investment in road and rail are amended as follows: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The estimated lifetime is increased from 25 to 60 years. b. The value of people's time is increased from $60 to $200 an hour. c. The assumption of socio-economic losses, justified by the loss of tax revenue resulting from the financing of the project, is removed. d. The return requirement is reduced from 4,5 pst. up to 2,5 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2131	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:149 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2152	In Case No. 10 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2306	The proposal is rejected, cf. point (e) of the third paragraph of Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2311	I ask that the draft representative in Report No 58 be forwarded to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for consideration. Marit Nybakk will present the majority of the presidency and the background to their position. I belong to a minority in the presidency. The debate is at the point where the boundary of the Grand Duchy's command authority runs over the administration of the Court of Justice. I believe that this is an unclear question, and that the Storting obviously has an authority to instruct the court administration in special cases. It is, in any case, a political issue that should be subject to political treatment in the Trade Union Committee and then the Grand Duchy in plenary. That is why I ask that the proposal be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2318	I shall then justify the majority vote; that means all the other five in the presidency except the representatives of the Progress Party. Let me start by saying that this is not a matter of disagreement about the substance of the matter; I need to tell you about this particular matter. However, when the Court of Justice was established, the independence of the courts was marked by the removal of administrative decisions concerning the activities of the courts from the government offices. Thus, this has some practical implications for how the Storting should proceed in relation to different types of proposals that relate to the responsibilities of the Court of Justice. Let me add that it is not such that the Storting cannot give any kind of order to the court administration in the form of a decision. For example, the size can be understood. budgetary decisions and various instructions and powers related to the budget in this way. But in this case, it is therefore a question of changing the rules given by the Court of Justice by virtue of the Law of the Court of Justice – this is difficult to understand. In general, there must be specific points of reference in order to limit the freedom of instruction of the Storting against the administration. However, in relation to the administration of the Court of Justice, as the majority has suggested, there are precisely such points of view. And the reasons for making the administration of the Court more independent from the government, namely that the body should carry out its activities more independently of political influence, are also in favour of making it more independent of the Stortinget. That is why the majority of the Presidency believes that this is not in line with the conditions for the establishment of the Court of Justice administration on the Stortinget to give an instruction on the content of a regulation, which is therefore the case. Thus, where there is a broad majority who consider that it would be contrary to the conditions for the establishment of the Court of Justice to adopt a decision on the substance of the proposal, the majority considers that it has very little in mind to forward this proposal to the Judicial Committee or, for that matter, to the committee hearing, and instead requests that the proposal be rejected in accordance with point (e) of the third paragraph of Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2331	The reasons given by the majority of the Presidency are, in my opinion, professionally thin. It is right, as the representative Nybakk said, that the purpose of establishing the Court administration in its time was to make it more independent from the government, that is, the day-to-day governance of the Minister of Justice. So, in the past, what is today the Court of Justice, a court department in the Ministry of Justice. Nevertheless, it is the case that the King of the Council of State today has the opportunity, through the Law of the Court of Justice, to give instructions to the administration of the Court of Justice. Then it seems strange that through this decision, the Storting imposes on itself a restriction that is greater than that of the King of the Council of State. I think that's quite remarkable, and it seems strange if the Stortinge through a referendum case itself should impose the restrictions without any major debate in the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2336	Several have not asked for the word to be given to referendum 58. Let's go to voting. Alternatively, between the position of the majority of the Presidency, to reject the proposal under point (e) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure, and the proposal of the minority of the Presidency, that the proposal be forwarded to the Judicial Committee for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-28.ana.ud414e2349	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
