ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e26	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e29	On behalf of the representatives of Per Sandberg, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal and myself, I am pleased to make proposals to draw up a communication on framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e56	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Knut Storberget State Council Terje Riis-Johansen State Council Tora Aasland The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. The first main questions will be asked by Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e75	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. But let me first – before I go to the question – thank the Minister of Justice for the action on the TV 2 news yesterday, where the Minister of Justice once for all acknowledged the Party's asylum and integration policy, and where the Minister of Justice put a line over all criticisms of the Progress Party, both in the past and in the future, of asylum policy and integration policy. In my joy – or amazement, I had almost said – about that entry I allowed myself to fill out a registration form to the Advance Party, if the Minister of Justice would be interested in it. But it remains to be seen whether there are realities in what was said. So to the question. The Shah case currently dominates the press and the media. This case raises several issues that have also been raised in the past in both big business and government. It concerns the legal certainty of children. We experience more and more kidnappings, more and more child abductions. We still have a problem of dual citizenship, where children have rights in several states, and we record that more and more children disappear from Norwegian school. This is probably just the beginning of a challenge that will be huge in the future. We already register that private companies, security companies, are established, among others. ABP World Group, which in the last six years has actually had 15 child Abduction cases. And this evolves at a furious pace. Many children do not receive assistance, like the children mentioned in the press and the media in the last few days. Many children are almost ignored by Norwegian authorities. The cases are not being investigated, they are being hospitalized. Here is a problem where responsibility is shared between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the administration. My question to the Minister of Justice is: What is now done by the Government and the Ministry of Justice to coordinate, so that all children get the legal certainty they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e84	I would first like to thank you for the recognition of the policy of the Government to create an effective asylum policy. It would otherwise not have been possible if we had taken into account the draft budget of the Progress Party, with dramatic cuts to the UDI, but also cut back on other parts of the integration process. The ability to implement asylum decisions now has only been possible through the fact that we have just given the appropriations that include: The Group of the Party of European Socialists voted against when we dealt with the budget. So I'd rather invite Sandberg into the Workers' Party, insofar as someone is going to change membership of political parties. As regards the issue of child abduction, it is well known that the government has worked intensively over a long period of time to strengthen the safety of children in these matters. It's complicated things. The most important thing we can do is to get more countries to join the Hague Convention. But we need instruments at home in order to be able to implement both within and outside the areas covered by the Hague Convention. What the Government has chosen to do is, among other things, to create the Children’s Abroad.com website – I’m advertising it, because it says it’s very useful that parents can use. It says, among other things. the possibility to obtain an extended legal assistance offer in this area, to seek help from the contact persons established in the Public Prosecutor’s Office – we have a separate contact number for those dealing with these kinds of cases – and it is also known to the questioner that a forum has been set up between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the actors in order to be better able to deal with these issues. What we have seen since 2006 is that the number of child abductions from Norway that we have registered has actually dropped from 57 to 28. Here I believe that we also see that we can reduce the number, while at the same time having significant challenges of being prepared for as serious issues as this. It is largely a matter of implementing decisions on the land of a foreign country, and it is not of the simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e95	First, let me say that it is quite natural that the budget of the Progress Party on asylum and integration policies should be cut, because the influx of asylum seekers and refugees would not be close to what the Government got in 2009. As a result, less resource use also becomes natural. Of course, if these measures that the Government now claims to want to implement, as the Progress Party has proposed for 15 years, had been implemented at an earlier date, the use of resources would also have been significantly less. But I'm recording what the minister answers to the question of the child-abduction and kidnapping challenges. My second question then turns to what was said in a letter from the Government to the Justice Committee at Stortinget on 12 March 2009. It was presented, just enough by the Council of State, that the Government had a number of measures to be implemented during 2009. My question is: are these measures in place, have they been implemented, and have they been investigated in line with the letter that came to the Justice Committee of the United Kingdom in March 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e104	I just have to point out my main answer when it comes to issues of child abduction. I would recommend the representative Sandberg to go into Child Abroad.no. There he will see that there are a number of measures that have been implemented and that actually help very well, but sometimes we are in situations where children have been abducted to countries such as the United States. has not acceded to the Hague Convention. We cannot send Norwegian policemen to pick up children from either Palau or other countries where we have child abduction cases. But what we've seen is that, among other things, Good diplomatic contacts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e.g. towards Palau, of course, helped to solve a very difficult matter. So here we are facing an area that requires more than just national decisions here in Norway. With regard to all the measures that have been implemented, I believe that this is useful, but it will not be completed in this area. We see that there are increasing challenges in the sense that many cases become complex while the number of registered cases has actually decreased.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e111	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e114	I think the Council of State should use this opportunity to send a clear signal to the many parents in this country who live in fear of their children being abducted – to lose our children, that is the worst thing that can happen to us. It is good to create web pages, etc. so that people can get information, but I understand that the representative Sandberg here asked about was concrete what Norwegian authorities would actively do in these cases to get the children back to the country, to Norway. The Council of State itself referred to those countries which are not members of the Hague Convention. That's exactly where the dog is buried. How to proceed if children are abducted to that type of country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e119	With regard to these countries, both from this government and from previous governments, the strategy has been to do what they can to join the Hague Convention in international forums, as well as bilaterally with these countries. We are not in a position to instruct other countries to accede to conventions, but it is a rather nine-time work that is being done, whether I or others in the Government are meeting representatives from these countries to raise the need for accession to the Hague Convention. I believe that the measures I have just referred to are as concrete as they can become – that people get legal aid, that people have the opportunity to have a contact judge, that lists of lawyers specialising in these matters are published, and that the police are able to react more quickly when faced with these kinds of issues, so that one can, among other things, deal with them. have stopped childbirth in time. These are, of course, important concrete measures, and I do not see so many other opportunities than to strengthen precisely this type of effort in this area. I have also not heard anything from the questioner about alternative measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e124	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e128	We are all very happy that the Shah children are safely located in Norway. Let me just say that the party's warm embrace of the government's handling of this matter has the side that I would have liked to see Sandberg's reaction if Moroccan special forces had done something similar in Norway – but now let it be in this context. It is obvious that three departments have hoped that nothing in particular would be revealed, that this would remain relatively unknown. After the media have every day revealed new features in the matter, it is obvious that now one is looking for scapegoats. Will the Government make sure that the Storting becomes familiar with all aspects of this matter, so that the Storing may also have an idea of who are the real scapegoats, before you now pick in the rows of Defense to create some examples?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e133	Several departments are involved in this type of case complex. Without going into this particular matter, I have to say that both what the Minister of Defence has explained in the light of the issues that have arisen with regard to the defence staff, what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has explained, and what the Ministry of Justice has also stated in the last few days, clearly shows that you want to be as open as you can about these matters. There are, as the Minister for Defence has also pointed out, challenges in relation to more fundamental issues such as: Defendants' employees. For our own part, a new initiative was taken by the Ministry of Justice on Monday to the Directorate of Police — it is known in public — to assure us that policemen do not participate in these kinds of actions. But we have also asked the police director to come back to the department on the issue of former police officers and their role and behaviour in these kinds of cases. I have no counter-representation against bringing that information into Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e138	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e141	The follow-up question to the Minister of Justice also concerns the legal security of children. It is important to bear in mind the legal certainty of children that if you look at it from a historical perspective, over many decades we have changed our view of the position of children in the law and children's demands for legal certainty. The last observations show that we are far from in terms of targets in this area, among other things. This week’s notice of lower penalties for violence committed against children than for violence committed against adults, of poor competence — not least in the police — in relation to the treatment of such cases, and of high level of detention. The government seems very satisfied with its own actions in the responses to these challenges. The question to the Minister of Justice is: What further measures does the Government plan to strengthen the legal certainty of children in this type of case, and what does the Council of State do to ensure that our generation is not later judged not to have understood the legal certainty requirements of children in the judicial and police services?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e146	The government is pleased with the measures taken to strengthen the legal certainty of children, in particular children who are subject to criminal offences. There's no doubt about it. The opposition has also indicated that these are good measures. The measures in this area have been supported. But if you thought, when we started four years ago by lifting this field – because I think it was absolutely necessary – that we should be done within four years, I think you were wrong. That's why it's important, as the questioner also says here, that we're dependent on having a lot of pressure on this still. Some concrete measures should be allowed to mention, as there are many measures in progress. We aim to increase the number of children's homes in Norway. We've established six. There are hundreds of children who are now afraid to say so. It is one of the most important measures. In the near future, we aim to mobilise the municipalities to make their own plans to better capture these children. And we're aiming during this six-month period, which I've already announced, to make a proposition for the Storting, where we're raising the penalty level for these abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e153	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e156	The Prime Minister made an offensive commitment to knowledge a major feature of this year's New Year's. ‘Knowledge trumps everything,’ was a mantra repeated several times. Now, after four and a half years of red-green government, experience shows that there is a way from celebrations – and for that matter new years – to action and lifting through state budgets. After all, the knowledge sector itself has not been very enthusiastic about the lack of knowledge and education support for several years. In the right, we are concerned about the concerns we are still receiving from the sector. At a meeting with key actors, I have understood, the Council of State itself went a long way in recognising the failure of the Government. At this meeting, just before the budget was adopted – I have the call here – the university and higher education sectors were almost begged to be kind to the Council of State and to stop criticising the public space. Former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen attended the meeting and told me how difficult it was to get through to the Ministry of Finance. A former adviser to Trond Giske told us about how cultural life by boasting of the Minister of Culture had received more money. And the lobby company Burson-Marsteller explained to them how they would operate so-called intelligent lobbying. The message must have been: you have to help and do good to the Council of State. This meeting can only be seen as an attempt to crush a sector and lure it into silence in the hope of getting bigger budgets. Is it really so that it is how kind people are with the Government, and not how important their case is, that is crucial to becoming budget wins? And is this really a strategy the Council of State has faith in will work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e167	The President assumes that this question was to the Aasland Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e170	That's right, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e175	After well and well two years as State Council for Higher Education and Research, there's one thing I'm absolutely convinced of, and it's that this is a sector that can't in any way be tamed or tamed. They say from just the way it is, and so it should be. It is our higher education institutions that have an independent role in providing higher education to students. It is researchers and professors who are involved in the top and top line in our research effort, both nationally and internationally. They can argue and sing in public and in any other context in which they are involved, and that is also their important task. The meeting to which the representative refers was a meeting to discuss strategy. After all, it is necessary to discuss strategy in many contexts, also in view of the relationship between the framework for which to fight and which to give, and the content to be in the framework. There must be a link between the important policy objectives of both research and education and the economic basis for them. I thought that those who were present at the very meeting that was mentioned appreciated that we had a fairly good and open discussion about just strategy, and it was of course in no way a meeting that should have the purpose that is here suggested. This sector is absolutely capable of discussing both with its Council of State and to argue for important issues. For my part, I believe that I have been well-informed in the government, not least in what is called a historically high research effort. We are now, in the year's budget, actually up to $23.6 billion for research. It's historically loud, and I'm very proud to have got it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e184	I thank you for your answer. As far as I can see, the call for this meeting was sent out on 28 October, i.e. two weeks after the state budget was presented, and two weeks after meeting a sector that was obviously dissatisfied with the budget that had been submitted. I wonder, then, whether the Council of State does not see that this must be seen as an attempt to call a critical sector after two weeks of noise to explain to them the way in which they are going to get greater budgets next time. Several of the actors who were present – and I don't hesitate to call principals at universities and colleges very up-and-coming people – say they've been headquartered for the meeting. One said that this was a very perceptive meeting, not least in view of the agenda presented. So here, obviously, the Council of State and the others present at the meeting have a totally different view of this meeting's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e194	It is reassuring that, if not so long, a report from a working group that I have set up — a working group to investigate the scope of action in higher education institutions. It arose because there was – and it may still be – a different understanding among those responsible for higher education institutions, and with us in the Government of what is the reality picture. I have great faith that this working group – which is composed of people with a very different background, but where the sector itself is well represented – will come up with some recommendations that can help us to get a common understanding of what our reality looks like. But what is absolutely certain is that no one has hurt to be present at a meeting where one discusses strategy, policy and economics in this area. I saw no principals present at this meeting. So there must have been some thoughts that have come after, and that have absolutely nothing to do with either the purpose or the implementation of that meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e199	Follow-up questions are given – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e202	Reality perception is obviously a challenge in the sector we are now discussing. There is no doubt that very many of those who were at the meeting reacted with headshaking and had a bad feeling in view of the strategy confirmed by the Council of State to be discussed. A little over a year ago, the Council of State called for a strong sector that supported the demand for a few large outflows in the budget. Now it is perceived that the Council of State has almost given a sector a mouth basket and asked them to be kind and quiet to get through. The Council of State says it was to put a strategy, and then I am interested in the following: After this meeting, the sector has notified two-three clear requirements for basic appropriations, capital to obtain quality in new study places and funding – what is the priority of this strategy in these areas? And if the oral curve is not observed, what strategy does the Council of State have?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e209	I will, of course, reject some clues to the oral course. As I said in my first post, these are the people and leaders of our society that you definitely can't put the oral basket on. It's not my wish to do that. On the contrary, I want up-and-coming, good principals and leaders of our research and education institutions who are involved in the social debate. Discussing strategies to improve the performance of higher education and research has nothing to do with bringing together one strategy. I am responsible for promoting matters for the Government in this sector, but I don't think any Council of State will allow to have meetings and listen to the leaders within its sector to discuss what are the most important challenges there. I do that all the time, I keep having dialogue meetings with both organisations and institutions. This was a collection of quite a few of them – with a motif that in no way was as this is suggested. So here's a complete misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e214	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e217	I note that the Council of State is more concerned about talking about appropriations for research than about higher education. But I'm glad we have a prime minister who says that «knowledge trumps everything». He does so in a situation where we do not have any Norwegian universities among the 100 best in OECD countries, in a situation where we are facing record-breaking growth in the student population, which is actually a gift package for a government that takes knowledge seriously. But then we have a finance minister named Sigbjørn Johnsen, who has said that it should be tightened up, including in this sector. This could lead to a shortage of resources allowing the increased quantity of students to lead to a reduction in quality. The answer is very often: the Action Room Committee. It would be interesting to know if the Council of State itself has made any thoughts – if these strategies cannot provide more money – about what other steps can we take to strengthen the quality of research and education in the higher education and university sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e224	I'm not quite sure if I understood the whole question, but I'm going to try to answer from what I understood. Of course, you want a lot of tools to meet what we call the educational wave, which the representative Lien was in. We know that there's going to be an increase in the number of students in our universities and colleges, and that's exactly why we've put forward a case that Stortinget now has to deal with. It's called the Education Line. In that case, there is a basis for the strategy that I hope the Government will be able to carry out with the Storting in order to maintain the good quality of the study offerings that are available, while at the same time being able to take in more students. We have already started that job through the revised national budget this year, and we will follow it up. The size is now going to discuss the whole basis for the measures and plans that need to be put in place to meet this educational wave, which I fully agree we need to take a positive look at. I think it is good that Stortinget now has this matter for consideration. It will help very well to bring about a good debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e231	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e234	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. It's been 40 years since we started oil production here in the country, and it's the interaction between government requirements and professional input that makes Norwegian oil and gas policy and production where it is today. The red-green government has put some Norway records – first, in the number of search licenses. It is well that the red-green government has distributed twice as many light licences as Gro Harlem Brundtland's government in its time did, and as the Bondevik II government did. It must probably also be a small record that we can read about in the Evening Post online, that environmental authorities in 45 p.m. cases are being overrun. These are, then, the environmental recommendations of the SFTs – or now of the Directorate of Climate and Pollution – that are not listened to in relation to the allocations chosen by the Government. I'm aware that there are different disciplines that make sense. You evaluate, and you weigh, and then it's the government that finally takes an overall assessment. But if we look at the Soria Moria Declaration – which is in a way the Government's basic document – it says that it should be a «long-term management of petroleum resources». I guess there's a little conflict with this search chord assignment. It also states that there should be ‘knowledge-based’ management of our oil and gas resources. My question to the Council of State will then be: how does this relate to the fact that on the one hand we distribute many search blocks, while on the other hand we do not listen to SFT, at least in 45 pst. of the cases, from 2005 until the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e247	There are two main answers to the question from the representative Hemdal. First of all, there is an extreme difference between the findings that were made back in Gro Harlem Brundtland's time, as the representative mentioned, when we found Gullfaks, Statfjord, i.e. great findings in the North Sea – gradually in the Norwegian Sea – and the findings we are doing today. That means that if we had the same level of exploration and number of allocations today that we had in the 1980s and 1990s, we would have done a lot less finding, we would have done less finding, and we would have had an even stronger reduction in oil production than we see now. So if we're going to have an approximately equal production of oil and gas in the sum in the future as what we have now -- we see that the curve in any case is slightly decreasing for the two in sum -- we have to do more findings than what we did in the past, just because the findings are smaller. To the question of environmental authorities: This is a new, eye-catching question from a representative of the size of the population, for the basis of the allocations we are making, because the management plans adopted by the Stortinge Sea have been adopted. The size of the sea is invited to make decisions, where the overall assessment is to be made, based on input from the various professional authorities. As the representative then says, in that process, it is quite natural that there are different issues, different assessments, related to the boundaries one sets up against the coast, the restrictions one imposes on specific areas where there are large fish resources, etc. There is a big and important discussion where the Storting has been invited to make decisions based on the processes associated with the management plans. Once we've done that, the process is then to make concrete allocations based on the framework the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e254	I do not think the Council of State should be so surprised that a representative of the big business is asking this question, because it also has what policy this representative of the big business and the party stands for. The councils were talking about big findings. In 2010, the Government will decide whether to open up the Lofoten and the Vestreål to oil and gas activities. I guess many people think that there might be a lot of fun here. Now we're in the final phase of acquiring knowledge about this. There's coming new knowledge after Easter, and I think there's a lot of us looking forward to it. But if it were to be the case that the Climate and Pollution Directorate, the Directorate for Nature Management, the Marine Research Institute and the Polar Institute would end up dissuading the opening of the Lofoten and the Western Sea from environmental reasons, can the Council guarantee that the environmental grounds are taken into account and that it will have an impact on the conclusion that the Government will present in the management plan that he spoke so nicely about in previous speeches?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e262	As the representative is familiar with, a comprehensive run towards a management plan and a revision of it related to the areas mentioned has now been made. I'm not going to go in there and shoot that process. It would be wrong for me to do here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e267	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e270	I interpret the Council of State's response there – he was quite clear about it – that he is not willing to advance nor is he willing to advance support or give priority to any environmental advice on the issue of opening up the Lofoten and the West Oil Bar. In recent times, central politicians from the Workers' Party have expressed their confidence in a compromise on the Lofoten and the Vesterål in the management plan. The centre party was clearly opposed to opening up in the election campaign. What are the main factors when the Council of State is about to start negotiating with the Workers' Party on the Lofoten and the Vestral?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e279	I perceive that the view of the Centre Party in this matter is, as the representative says, well known. There has been a lot of discussion about these questions in general. My answer to this question is nothing different than what was my answer to the previous question, that we have now set a course for a comprehensive and – I am absolutely sure – a good process. We need to acquire knowledge, we need to make different balances, and then a proposal will be made for a revised management plan, or a rollover of the management plan, probably at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. Then we get back to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e284	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e287	It is easy to see in the media debate that the Ministry of the Environment has a very free-handed way of allowing its bureaucrats to participate in the debate on society, especially in the oil and gas debate, while the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not take part in the bureaucrats. Then you get a very one-sided thing, where you also see that the same bureaucrats from the bodies of the Ministry of the Environment are often out and sorry when they don't get access to all their views. I'm not worried that they don't win all of their things, rather on the contrary, even if they make important recordings. More worrying, on the other hand, for the value creation in Norway and North Norway, is the work done by the Ministry of the Environment in relation to UNESCO and World Heritage, where the signals indicate that if the World Heritage Request is implemented, it will stop all practical oil activities, wind power and new industrial activities. This is therefore the same department responsible for drawing up the management plan. When they have completed an application for this before the management plan has been examined, is there not a danger that one may interpret it so that the Government in that area has already concluded and that there will not be opening up to oil activities in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e294	I can assure the representative of Solvik-Olsen that the process that I have also commented on earlier is real. It's going to be real, and we're going to have a thorough review of the different questions. Nor is it the case that the Ministry of the Environment is properly responsible for running the process related to the management plan, which is a process that does not involve other departments. This is a matter that is going to have a broad focus in the government, in which the Ministry of Oil and Energy and other departments are going to be heavily involved, and where the different points of view are guaranteed to be conveyed along the way. The process must therefore be both wide and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e299	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e302	It's going to be possible to pick different angles of incidence to this percentage, i.e. 45 pst. environmental authorities are not taken into account in these cases. But you can also view it that way that in 55 pst. – over half of the cases – follow the input from environmental authorities. That's a lot. We are proud that we have an industry that produces oil and gas in the most environmentally friendly way by everyone around the world. This is not least because strict environmental requirements have been imposed. Now we see that in 55 pst. Of these cases, environmental authorities are given some support, so my question is a little different: does the Council of State think that environmental authorities might be given too much to say when it comes to the allocation of blocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e307	I believe that in policy in general and in oil and gas policy in particular, the balanced solutions are the best solutions. I believe that what has characterized the development of Norwegian oil and gas policy is precisely that. We've been at the top of the world when it comes to setting demands. The industry has probably often felt that Norwegian authorities have been tough to deal with, because there have been demands, whether there were bans on torching, zero emissions in the Barents Sea, etc., which there and then meant that the industry had to deal with technological challenges that they might not be ready for when it came to the activity on other sockets, and in the short term there was an increase in costs. What we now see is that, as a result, we have both managed to get the world's purest oil and gas production in Norway, and that it has also contributed to a technological development that the supply industry in Norway now benefits from because it can go out in the world with it. So I'm quite sure that balancing environmental considerations against fisheries and oil and gas is a wise way to pursue oil and gas policy. I'm going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e314	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e318	When the Stortinge dealt with the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, the overall emphasis was placed on the precautionary principle. Does the Council of State think that he has been following orders from Stortinget satisfactorily when the environmental recommendations are still being abandoned, as we heard in the opening question from Hemdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e323	I do not agree with the premise for the question. I do not agree that Norwegian oil and gas policy is a policy that is pursued across environmental interests and across input from environmental authorities. I believe that it is just the balanced solutions we have found, and I believe that the answer that I just gave to the representative Meling is a good answer in that way. We have been the country in the world that has made the strictest demands on industry, which has also made us clear, for example. to impose zero emissions at sea in the Barents Sea. I believe that we take account of the input that comes from environmental authorities, and so, as I have also mentioned before today, it will always be a balance in relation to where to have concrete activity, the requirements to be set for close coastal areas, the requirements to be set in areas where there is a great deal of fishing interest, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e328	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e331	There were questions to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The electricity price in Central Norway has been cloud-high for several periods. A few weeks ago, the 8 kroner peaked, and at the end of last year, the 11 kroner peaked. This occurs at the same time that the country owns power production in the area they refuse to use and hides behind concession rules. Now there are many local actors who have recently called for the existing power generation to be used when power prices become sky high. The county rapporteur in Nord-Trøndelag, local rapporteurs in several of the municipalities in central Norway, the business community and most people in the street, who actually have to pay the cost of a faulty energy policy, require all production capacity to be put into use. Then we could still hear at the Political Quarter this morning that the Erling Sande of the Centre Party, head of the Energy and Environment Committee, believes that the situation in Central Norway has not been such as to suggest that the gas power plants should be put into operation. You just have to think about how much power is going to have to rise before the situation gets used. The Socialist Left, on the other hand, says no because of CO2 emissions, and then you can reflect on the level of tolerance you have in an offensive climate policy. While the County rapporteur of the Workers' Party in the South-Trøndelag more has resigned when he said in Technical Weekly yesterday: ‘I don’t understand what Statnet is going to do with the mobile gas plants. We have had prices of 11 kroner/kWh. This is to keep us fooled." He notes that Statnett will never use the gas power plants with the legislation that is now at the bottom. So this is a regulation that can be changed politically. To prevent consumers from getting electricity prices in the middle of Norway once again, or over and over again, which are many kroner and would also like to receive two-digit amounts, you should use all the capacity you have. Will the Council of State now take an initiative to amend the legislation so that price levels can also be a criterion to which Statnets can apply when assessing whether gas power stations are going to be put into service?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e348	Firstly, I believe that the electricity price in Norway should be equal, wherever in Norway. That is why we have a great job ahead of us in doing the job that has been done too little – that is, building a network. We need more networks, we need better transport channels for the flow through our country. It has shown this winter in a I may not say well, but it has shown us clearly that this does not work well enough. At the same time, it is important to be aware that we have more of a South Norway situation than a Middle Norway situation. The price in Central Norway today is 52.4 cents. It's 52.4 cents in Sweden, and it's the same in Copenhagen. The biggest deviation in the price we've had between Middle Norway and the North during this period has been 1.7 centimeters. What we see is that as a result, among other things, by the correction of the Nea-Järp current is the flow of energy out and into Middle Norway a little better than before. That means that Mid Norway is now part of the Nordic electricity market, while South Norway is not, because we have too bad connections between the Oslo area and South Sweden in particular. It's being worked on in relation to the South West link and the connections there. The starting point here is that there is a common situation in Central Norway and the Nordic countries. Then the representative takes up the question about the mobile gas power plants. I believe that it is a great security for the people of Central Norway to know that, in any case, we have a production reserve that provides preparedness in the area. There is enough power for consumers in central Norway, and that was the purpose of setting up the mobile gas power plants right there. We shall ensure that this security is maintained through the fact that the criterion for starting up those works is just being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e357	I thank you for your answer. Talking about having mobile gas power plants on standby, but believing that a power price of NOK 8 or NOK 11 is not enough to put them into service, is like a hospital saying that you have medicine in stock, but you don't use it until the patient is dead. That's what's relevant here. Nor is there any comfort for people in central Norway to show that South Norway has not had a power price of 8 kroner or 11 kroner per year. kWt. The problem is that the electricity price in Central Norway and North Norway has been sky-high, and then people have very little understanding that the state is disposing of the power generation that they do not want to use. The reason is obvious: there is a disagreement about CO2 emissions and such things, and this makes you paralysed in relation to this. This is a completely political process – if you want to. Then I repeat my question: will the Council of State take the initiative that the price mechanism here also become part of this? If you go all the way to school on prices, prices will always balance a market. The question is whether you are willing to take the consequence that the electricity price is between 10 and 15 and 20 kroner in order to restore the balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e367	What is a fact in this regard, and as I feel the representative is jumping over here now, is that Mid-Norway, as a result of network improvements, is part of the Nordic electricity market. This means that the reserve power plants in Central Norway represent 3 per million of installed capacity in the Nordic market. If the representative Solvik-Olsen now makes it a point that the price in Middle Norway is falling with the start of two back-up power plants, which thus have 3 per million of the installed power, then I disagree that there will be one measure that will help to make the price low rather than very high. The thing is, we've had the results of nuclear power plants in Sweden. There has been a low production of electricity in the Nordic region, and these are producers with completely different capacities than the reserve power plants in Central Norway. At the same time, it's been cold in the area. So we don't have to make the debate simpler than it is, because in reality, those reserve power plants have a limited capacity. In addition, Mid Norway is part of the Nordic market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e374	There will be follow-up questions – first the representative Oskar Jarle Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e377	We now see too many examples of unmanageable prices for business in Central Norway. In Forest, one saw the need to shut down a paper machine because of the high power prices. We see that the downstream power-processing industry will not be relaunched due to high electricity prices, and energy costs have a significant negative impact on business start-ups. Weighted delivery stillness is the conclusion of customers in the country, who are again lost customers. Is the State Council in agreement with the Progress Party that a price level of SEK 1 to 2 is so high that the concession conditions for the start-up of gas power plants should be changed? When we know that Mid-Noreg is below 5-6 billion kW, we're not talking about 0.3 per million of Nord Pool's entire area – we're talking about supply in Middle Norway that gives a completely different figure compared to what these gas plants can bring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e382	I thought I answered that question, which was also asked by the representative of Solvik-Olsen. But with regard to the situation in central Norway in general, I believe that we have come into a somewhat lucky situation in that area because large industrial projects were started for some years ago without having to fill up with the corresponding production. This means that it has now been necessary to make extensive efforts to ensure that both production capacity in central Norway, where it is, among other things. significant Enova funds have been allocated in the last year to start new production and the transfer capacity out and into the area needs to be significantly improved. With regard to the latter, Ørskog–Fardal-traseen is the major measure that will mean a completely different situation in central Norway than the one we have seen before, and I am not comfortable with the fact that the price in central Norway is different from the other in Norway. We should have one price of electricity in Norway, and therefore we need to build more networks and get up the production of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e389	Bjørn Lødemel – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e393	The size in 2006 handled a Document No. Eight proposals from representatives Børge Brende, Ivar Kristiansen and Petter Løvik on an action plan to prevent the power crisis and supply crisis in Central Norway. During the debate, Mr Odd Roger Enoksen, Minister for Oil and Energy, spoke: ‘I am now working on an action plan as requested, to address the power situation in Central Norway, with a view to bringing forward the action plan early in the autumn.’ It is a scandal that the government holds a whole section of the country for fools and does not come up with an action plan as promised. It is clear that the Government does not take on board the fact that enterprises can go beyond the end and that there is a hook on the door for important investments due to high power prices and low-sustainable business environment. It's the inhabitants of Central Norway who get the sense of a de facto government here. We see that the expansion of Ørskog-Fardal is complicated, and that there are different solutions to be considered, and that is important. As a result, this does not have a capacity before 2014. What will the State Council do to reduce the damage caused by poor capacity in the line network in 2010, 2011 and until 2014? Will the Council of State keep promises of an action plan for Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e405	I think it is very expensive to use the word ‘candals’ about something that obviously could also have been done by the previous government in connection with the launch of large industrial projects without ensuring that the corresponding production was put in place, that corresponding line projects were upgraded. So what we're doing now is repairing the damage that's happened because there was no interaction between the use of energy and the supply of energy in Middle Norway, and we're doing that. It's now spent 5 billion kroner in the area via Statnett to get a better situation. We've updated the Nea-Järpstream, which is a very important connection to the area. We have performed voltage upgrades on the network, which now contribute to the network working much better than before. We have used significant Enova funds into the area, which only resulted in approximately 2009 300 GWh with new production in the area, and I'm focused on as fast as possible concession treatment of the Ørskog-Fardal line because I think it's the big concrete measure that will actually mean a difference for the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e410	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e413	People in Central Norway are concerned about power situation. Then it's all the more important with precise information, because it's not true that the extreme prices we had in short periods of winter were a special case for Middle Norway. There were actually several parts of the Nordic power market that saw the extreme prices. We don't have a South Norway situation either. First of all, we have a Middle Norway situation. This means that if we get a dry year, we could get extreme prices in Middle Norway and rationalization. The Christian People's Party also proposed, in the previous period, to strengthen the Energy Minister's toolbox, to strengthen political governance at the expense of the market, just to prevent such situations from reoccurring. Unfortunately, the government has not followed up. But the big question that people in Central Norway may ask for answers is: Can the Minister of Oil and Energy guarantee that if such an extreme situation occurs as a result of a dry year, he will put the price ranges out of play, so that Mid-Norway will not pay extreme prices over several months because security of supply is not well-managed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e422	I think the introduction to the question from the representative, Håbrek, was very good. I agree that we have had a Nordic price situation. But I have to ask questions about the reasoning at the end, based on the fact that security of supply was brought forward as a matter of principle, while he wanted to put the price ranges out of play. Price ranges have just been introduced to ensure security of supply in the area and to ensure that power is drained into areas with weak production and market imbalances. It is, of course, the most important measure you have to ensure that a person gets power in the middle of Norway, and as such, it can also reduce the landfilling of the warehouses in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e427	We're going to the next -- and last -- main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e430	You can stay standing, councillor, the question is for you. You're a popular man today! In the evening news on Sunday, we were once again reminded of the convoy of 20,000 trucks carrying Norwegian waste to Swedish combustion plants. The industry estimates that there may be as much as 500,000 tonnes of Norwegian waste disappearing from the country every year. Seven out of eight contracts concluded in recent months have gone to Swedish combustion plants. This happens at the same time as the government spends billions of taxpayers' money subsidising the development of district heating pipes in Norwegian cities. So, on the one hand, the government chooses to go heavily into the establishment of district heating infrastructure, but on the other hand, the same government introduces framework conditions that make the main input factor in district heating production disappear to the rest of the world. Maybe it's not just me that gets associations to the biodiesel case last autumn. Does the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen believe that it is in line with the Government's climate policy that Norwegian district heating plants risk firing oil rather than waste because of the same government's charging policy? The council has told him to look into the matter. We are anxiously waiting for him to finish seeing and are ready to send a signal. I'll challenge him on that today. When will he follow Sweden’s example and remove the combustion tax? Does he realize that there is a urgency for this industry when so many contracts — which are long-term contracts, which are four-year contracts, which are ten-year contracts — make significant quantities of Norwegian waste disappear from the country, not only in the year and next year, but for a long time in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e439	I think it is important to facilitate the use of waste in combustion plants in Norway. It is quite right, as the representative Astrup says, that we have spent a lot of money building an infrastructure for heating. 19 of the 20 largest cities in Norway have such an infrastructure. I believe that Oslo is a good example of a good policy on the district heating side. The effect will not, of course, be as desired if there is fossil energy used to produce that heat. It is quite correct that we have charges in Norway that the Swedes have removed. We have put in place a process to assess the tax regime around this against the revised national budget. So that process goes its way. But to have further pressure here, the finance minister and I will have a meeting with the entire industry about approx. 14 days. There we are committed to listening and getting input and taking it further into the process towards the revised national budget. Otherwise, I think it is important to remember that there is a difference between charging policies in Norway and Sweden, but that is more than that. There is also a price difference that is quite significant, because Sweden has built up a large capacity in this area, a capacity that is, in fact, a little too large in relation to access to waste in Sweden, and one goes in here with prices that are relatively favourable for transporting waste to Sweden. So it's probably about something more than Norwegian charging policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e448	I perceive that the Council of State has not intended to take the signal for the time being. He has planned to meet the industry and once again a few messages about the problem, rather than sending a signal that Norway has also planned to remove the combustion tax — and do so quickly. Governments talked about access to waste. This is due to the fact that 500,000 tonnes of waste in Norway end up in landfills, despite the ban on landfills. Derogation from the prohibition on landfill shall be granted. These are waste which could have been released as an input for Norwegian district heating plants. I believe that the Council of State is wise to place 500,000 tonnes of waste in landfill and to release, for example. methane, rather than being used to produce hot water and heat to households and businesses? Let me also add that the Ministry of Finance has estimated that an increase in the deposit fee to NOK 1000 per person. tonnes will release 250000–300000 tonnes of waste. Does the Council of State think that it could be an idea to do this to release more waste?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e455	The answer to that question is yes. I believe that we should definitely consider whether the exemptions contained in the landfill ban are managed in such a way that too much waste ends up in landfills. There I can be short, precise and appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e460	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e464	I would like the Council of State to be equally clear in relation to signals about what is going on in the revision of the combustion levy, because it is urgent. It's been a few months since the last time we asked questions. In the meantime, the OERAS plant, Upper Rome, has had a tender. There the waste goes to Gothenburg, at a price of about 500 kroner per person. tonnes, for which Norwegian operators could also compete if the combustion charge had disappeared. February 15 is a critical date. The time limit for the invitation to tender for the garbage in the Trondheim area is 40 000 tonnes for four years. Does the Council of State see the seriousness, and that the industry needs a signal quickly, and preferably before 15 February, about what the Government intends to bring into revision? A few weeks after 15 February, the western part of the territory also leaves with a bid of 93 000 tonnes for four years. It's urgent a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e469	In terms of the process, I have nothing more to say about it now than what I said to the representative Astrup's similar question. With regard to the gravity of the situation, I definitely believe that we should have waste as an important part of the basis for the production of energy in heating plants in Norway, and that should also be reflected in the policy we have. So we're working on this, we're looking at this, and then we're going to spend the time up to the revised national budget on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e474	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e477	It seems that the Minister of Energy has gone to political school with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and that dialogue should be the main instrument of energy policy. Instead of saying that one should now have further meetings with the industry and listen to recordings, the Council of State should remember that this government has now ruled for almost 53 months. I've been sitting on Stortinget for the same time. We've had a forest of input from the industry -- I use the term forest, because I know which party the council belongs to. In the last two years, this has been a subject of budgetary procedure. It should stop waiting for a recording and rather be the time to make a play. As the previous question asked, there are a number of contracts to be concluded now, which have a long duration. If one of them had to sit and wait until June before someone knows what the government thinks, I would like those contracts to be concluded with a expectation that the fee will be in place, and that one of them will send them abroad. Doesn't the Council of State see the problem that when you don't make the playoffs yourself, the contracts are still going out of the country, in a long-term horizon?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e482	I don't think I have any other answer to that question that sails if it is asked for the third time, with a little different angle. I am concerned about this question. We have a decision in Stortinget from the autumn related to the 2010 tax policy, and if one is to make changes to it, in that case the natural place to take it up will be in the revised national budget, which will come later in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e487	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e490	The Christian People's Party believes that we should remove the burning fee so that not seven out of eight contracts go to Sweden, but that we can use the energy ourselves – just to confirm it. But I want to go one step further. We have now had a six-month ban on landfills, and there are two reasons for that. One is that landfilling is a challenge in relation to the environment, especially the methane stock, which is 21 times more dangerous than CO2 for the atmosphere. In addition, the important energy carriers we put on landfill. But then we see that around our counties there are a lot of exemptions. I am very pleased with what the Council of State says in relation to the landfill charge, and that he believes that it should be increased. But I want to go a little further, because there's so much inequality from county to county on this, makes this case a little challenging. Will the Council of State, as part of a college, in the Government see whether he can take new action, so that we get a comprehensive policy in this area, and not as it is now, that there are many exemptions in some states?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e500	I thought in my precise response to the representative Astrup had reported what my position was on it. I believe – in order to clarify what I said – that it is important to have a regulation here where the exception does not undermine the purpose of the legislation. If one now sees that there are relatively many exemptions, if in individual states there is a completely different policy in this area than in the country as a whole, I think it provides the basis for reconsidering this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e505	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e511	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who directs him. Question 2, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education who directs him. Question 3, from the representative Robert Eriksson to the Minister for Local Affairs and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing him. Question 4, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Questions 5, 6 and 7 from the representatives of Arne Sortevik, Borghild Tenden and Svein Harberg respectively to the Minister for Transport are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Question 14, from the representative Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Labour, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e531	The first question to be answered is from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e537	‘Immigrants from non-Western countries find it difficult to obtain a job because they can have an education that is not known and they speak poorly Norwegian, but the absence of Norwegian labour references also proves to be of great importance, according to a study by the Institute for Social Research. It is clear that non-Western immigrants increase their chances of entering the labour market when taking temporary jobs. With this in mind, will the Council of State assess changes to the Working Environment Act that can give more opportunities to work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e549	It is the Government's aim to have a high transition to work among those outside the labour market. Employers may use temporary labour in a number of cases, e.g.: in Vicariats, if any sick or on leave. Temporary labour may also be used if, for other reasons, the employer has a temporary need for work, such as: in stoppages. According to SSB numbers, as many as about 200,000 people, or 8.6 pst. by all workers, temporarily employed. The proportion has been relatively stable in the last decade and is highest in the hotel and restaurant industries, with a total of 16 pst. Temporary employment can serve as a first job for some and then lead to permanent employment in the labour market. However, extending the possibility of temporary employment to situations other than temporary labour needs has many dilemmas. Liberalisation can lead to the temporary employment of many more permanent employees today. And often, not one temporary job will lead to permanent employment, but to several temporary jobs in succession. This creates considerable uncertainty for individuals, also because lack of permanent employment may cause problems in obtaining a loan. Therefore, the Soria Moria II Government has promised to continue its work to ensure that permanent employment is the general rule and to limit temporary employment. I believe that there is a risk that developments towards more temporary employment mainly affect the most difficult jobs in the labour market. I am concerned that there does not develop a segmented working life where the immigrant population is over-represented in sectors with insufficient training, greater accident risk, low level of organisation, weaker job protection and lower salary levels. I believe that other measures and instruments are of greater importance. The government is therefore putting up a broad effort to get immigrants into work. I believe that a combination of enhanced qualifications and education, cooperation with the social partners and active measures to combat discrimination in the labour market provide good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e560	There is no doubt that there are good intentions behind the strict rules that exist today, but it is also a fact that too many people are outside and do not get into the world of work. More than half of the temporary employees actually work in the public sector, and especially many in the state. There, because of a section of the Civil Service Act, access to temporary staff has been improved, and there are, of course, plenty of people who use it. In the state you say that you don't know exactly what the work looks like in a year, or two or three, and then you can hire temporarily. This cannot be done in the Norwegian industry, in the private sector and in the municipal sector. Why is it still going to be like this? Uncertainty often causes businesses not to dare to redo, even if they might have had the opportunity to do so. Most people who do not have a job would prefer temporary jobs to no one. And it is strange that the rules of the Working Environment Act should be different, and that the principles underlying the law and the consideration of temporary employees are not the same when assessing employees in the country against municipal and private employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e569	I just want to first stress what I said earlier, that we're very concerned that we don't get a two-part labour market, and that unemployed immigrants are a priority for this government in terms of labour market measures. In the third quarter of 2009, the figure was 40 pst. by the participants in ordinary labour market measures, immigrants. 70 pst. by immigrants participating in these measures have a background from just Asia and Africa. And we believe that precisely this scheme, through labour market measures, working practices and wage subsidies, helps to bring this group of workers into sustainable, good and safer jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e574	The project that I referred to here has been carried out with temporary workers from Adecco, and it shows that well-qualified immigrants actually got a regular job after they had been temporarily employed. However, it should also be transferred to others who, for various reasons, have difficulties in entering ordinary employment. Some people also want to take a shorter job to see what kind of job they are suitable for, and to find a suitable job. If businesses were to use temporary and temporary jobs also on the ordinary part of their business, it would be possible to achieve that more people were given the opportunity to enter. And that's what the problem is today, that there's not enough opportunities to offer such jobs without these vicariates and the special exceptions that exist. Then the companies would also dry to try to redo, even if they were unsure whether they needed it for a long time. Doesn't the Council of State think it would help more people get to work – it's also a very important moment we have to have with us when so many people are outside – that private businesses also have the same opportunities as the state to use [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e583	I just want to say right away that of course we are busy getting as many immigrants into work as possible. So you can have different views on how to do the best. I am also aware that there is some disagreement between researchers about the type of instruments on which the ISF report is based, is the right procedure or not. What's important to us is you don't get a B team and an A team on the labour market. And we're afraid that an approach angle where you open up temporary additions for immigrants will lead to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e590	Then Stortinget goes to question 1, which is from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister of Knowledge. The question has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education who addresses it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e596	‘IAs World Energy Outlook 2009 estimates that the world will need more oil and gas in the next decades. Norway has a high potential to contribute to this energy. It is a fact that the oil industry is becoming more advanced and requires highly skilled staff. Therefore, it is important to invest in real science, while encouraging young people to train in petroleum-related subjects, so that we can continue to develop as a petroleum nation. What does the Council of State do to ensure the recruitment of the petroleum industry?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e603	I very much agree with Mr Solvik-Olsen that recruitment for real-time and technological studies is very important. Real science and technology provide the basis for much value creation and well-being. And the importance of such competence is increasing. That's why, together with the Minister of Knowledge, I'm about to launch a new real science strategy that follows two previous strategies. Through this new initiative, we show that it will be invested in the entire education cycle, from kindergarten to higher education, research and working life. This strategy has been developed in cooperation with all the key actors of social organisations, businesses, research and education. It thus shows that we are united on a common goal, namely to get more interested in real science. This strategy will be a system-oriented bet. Real subjects are strengthened in teacher training and are more visible in the efforts to develop skills. But perhaps the most important thing we do through this strategy is to convey the importance of MNT, i.e. the education of mathematics, science and technology, to meet the major challenges we face — in addition to the activity of petroleum — for example. with regard to the climate challenges. In initial training, geoscience has been established as a programme subject in the study-specific training programme. The compartment will have an impact on the knowledge of rock and the potential to exploit natural resources. The software technology and research teaching shall provide a fundamental insight into the technological challenges posed by the petroleum industry. For higher education, the strategy includes: formulated a target of 15 pst. increasing the number of graduates from higher education in real science and technology. Many measures will be taken to achieve this objective, including: a math training project named ENTER and the strengthening of teaching in education. Engineering training in Norway was evaluated in 2008 and, as a follow-up to that work, the Ministry has now set up a selection to revise the Norwegian Engineering Training Framework. This is in order to provide candidates with even more relevant training in relation to the labour market's needs for skills. Cooperation between higher education and the labour market is one of the main points of St.melding. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, which is now being treated in Stortinget. There are many possibilities here that have not yet been exploited. I would like to make it clear that in the Storingsbericht, higher education is also mentioned, so there are larger parts of the education than just higher education. I would also like to highlight the importance of research in this context. Research policy specifically focuses on building sound knowledge environments in selected areas. And here we are moving on to further increase the quality of research. I would also like to mention that we have developed a mechanism through the research fund, which ensures an annual amount of equipment – i.e. scientific infrastructure. There are also things that make the technological environments attractive, including for new recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e620	The signals about investing in real science and much of that research and, on a general basis, engineering training are good. What I'm still focusing on in my question is the petroleum industry, which is our main industry, and how we can stimulate young people to go in that direction, so that we can further develop the industry. The reason for my challenge is that one should not go very far back before the previous oil and energy policy spokesman in SV said: ‘We want to direct young people to areas of renewable industry, not the oil industry. We must govern this politically, and not leave it to the industry." It is a very wrong signal if you want to develop the petroleum industry, even if you have never seen such a good engineering effort in general. What I want to get a clear signal from the Government is that there is no desire to channel young people who want petroleum-oriented subjects, away from there. On the contrary, an encouraging student counsellor in high school and high school should say that the oil industry should also be with us for decades to come, and it is an attractive industry to choose if you want to go in engineering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e634	There are, of course, limits to how thematically, or professionally, you can be in real-time education, not least in high school. The most important thing to motivate there is mathematics and science, so the real subjects. And what I said about geology is of particular interest in the petroleum industry. I fully agree that we must train people for the oil and gas industry, but also for a converted oil and gas industry, which takes on the fact that we have some environmental challenges. It also requires a different type of insight into pure technology. But the basic thing – I fully agree with the representative in – is to be able to provide good guidance for young people. We are now doing that in higher education, and with a good follow-up in e.g. higher education in not only to get them to study real science but also in contact with working life and social life around it, because it is an important task for our educational institutions that they are in contact with the outside world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e641	Can I then, with a little kindness, interpret the Council of State so that she does not agree with SV's energy policy spokesman in the previous period, None Marte Thorkildsen, who wanted to politically steer young people away from petroleum-related education? Of course, there has to be an freedom of choice here, so that no one should be forced into this field either. I just want a confirmation of that. I want to go back to what the Council of State said about research. Research is very good, but when you look at the development of the allocations for petroleum-related research, they have stagnated under the red-green government in the last few years. That is also a reason why I want a confirmation from the Council of State that one does not want a sunset approach to the industry. Even in the case of study counselors, there have been several examples of people working in the petroleum industry reporting that when their children go to secondary school and not least high school, they are almost told that the oil industry is not the future. It's a wrong signal if AS Norway is going to develop this industry, that we encourage people who are interested not to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e648	One of the most important measures in the Education Line, i.e. in the Communication now under consideration by the Stortinget, is a proposal to establish a Council, both a national council and a Council at each educational institution, to bring together people from work and society with the management of each educational institution. It is in order to be in touch with society around it and to address as best as possible the need for skills in the disciplines and industries where there is a real need for labour. Then there is something basic in all industries – whether it's the petroleum industry or there's others, in health care or whatever – that you have to have some subjects, which in this case are about real science, i.e. science, mathematics, etc. – and geology, to take it. It is then what is essential for students to be motivated, and together with their educational institution, it is important to know something about the needs of society around them and not to make wrong decisions in relation to the fact that there will no longer be a need for a particular type of workforce. Then I have not said anything about the need for conversion, but of course that is also in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e656	This question, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e659	‘From 2011 onwards, the funding of the specialised schools is introduced into the framework of the counties. This can create challenges because the provision of vocational education is divided differently between the counties. For example, Hordaland County has 20 pst. of the post-school places in the country and 10 pst. by the inhabitants. In what way will the Government ensure that Hordaland County Council is financed by its vocational school offer even after 2011?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e666	For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 10 for 2008-2009 on the law on administrative changes etc. the Stortinget decided that the county councils should ensure that approved vocational education and training is offered. As a result, the county councils have also been given extended financial responsibility for the vocational schools. The funds allocated to specialised schools, which were transferred to the county councils' framework grant in 2010, have been distributed this year between county municipalities on the basis of student numbers. The Government intends to allocate these funds from 2011 on the basis of the cost keys of the income system of the county councils. The cost keys are designed to compensate for differences in expenditure needs between county municipalities and, together with the balancing of income, contribute to balancing the financial assumptions in order to offer an equivalent service offer around the country. Through what is called the guarantee of income, counties are guaranteed an estimated growth in relation to the national average. In the municipal proposal for 2011, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will present proposals for new cost keys. In the municipal bill, the government will also come back to how the vocational school students will still be able to be mobile across the county boundaries. The counties are currently conducting technical vocational education. The new responsibility for providing a vocational school offer means that county councils are given an increased opportunity to make local assessments of the types of vocational schools to be specifically organised through government grants. The conversion of the financial instrument will provide the county councils, including the County Municipality of Hordaland, with room for local priorities – this concerns the possibility of targeting the vocational school allocations in the county according to local skills needs and other relevant circumstances. In this context, I would also like to remind you that some private vocational schools received state support from the Ministry of Knowledge budget until 2009. These funds have also been invested in the framework grants of the respective counties from 2010 onwards, and it will therefore be the responsibility of the county councils to assess further grants for these schools. I would, of course, urge the county councils to take care of the diversity that exists among the providers of vocational education and training, not least in the case of the social organisations. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Knowledge is in the process of setting up a specialist school council, as announced in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, and an establishment conference will take place in April 2010. I consider that a national vocational school council will give the vocational schools a strengthened role and contribute to a more targeted development of the vocational school offer. The vocational schools are a very important piece in the Norwegian education system. They contribute to a differentiated training offer, adapted to different occupational groups and different needs in the labour market and may be more focused on practical education than many other higher-level offers. But the government has no plans to weaken this important education offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e681	I thank you for the answer, and I fully agree with the Council of State that the vocational schools are a very important offer, and that it is important to take care of the diversity that exists. However, I am not entirely convinced that it will be possible to realise in practice when the funding base for the vocational schools is changed. That's what might be the main problem here, and I've seen that many people have expressed concern for. One thing is that the county councils are encouraged to invest in this and prioritize it, but if there is a reduction in funds for those states that have a particularly well-developed offer, it is really difficult to maintain this offer. The question to the Council of State is whether she feels confident that no county councils come out badly and receive sub-funding for their existing offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e686	It is the Stortinget who has decided that the vocational schools should be transferred to the county municipalities, and of course I have great confidence that the county municipalities will take this responsibility seriously. They are already responsible for adult education, and they are also an important regional development actor, with the following close contact with industry and society. And it's precisely where the offer of vocational education is so important that in the dialogue between the county and society, of which it is part, you can find out the best offers in the field of vocational education. Of course, we have a system for both county and municipality councils, with a framework grant that makes them themselves available within that grant, but at least we have made sure by the state at the time of the transfer to add to the framework grant the amounts that we already spent in the vocational schools. Of course, I want to follow this closely and am concerned about having good contact with the county councils on these issues, so that together, both the state and the county council, we can ensure a good vocational school offer in future in all the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e695	The size has previously been stated – I quote the majority: ‘The majority indicate that the Government proposes to transfer responsibility for the operation and financing of vocational education to the regions.’ — It has now become the counties. «The majority agree to this and assume that the financing of the specialised schools has to be reviewed in the course of such a transfer.» Has such a fundamental review been carried out of the funding of the vocational schools, taking into account the fact that the offer between the counties today is different now when this is incorporated into the ordinary framework transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e705	I can answer yes to that question, there have been thorough reviews of the funding. I would also like to refer to what I said in my main response, namely that from 2011, the different parts of the framework grant that the county council receives will be calculated on the basis of the cost keys of the income system. So it's going to be a revision of the cost keys. I then see it as my responsibility to make sure that the technical schools here are taken care of. But I am, as I said, very sure that the county councils see the importance of a good vocational education offer within the diversity that is, in addition to the offer they are responsible for not only in high school, but also in adult education. I hope at least and believe that this is going to go very well, but I'm going to follow closely with the government council that actually has a professional responsibility for the colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e713	This question, from Robert Eriksson's representative to the Minister for Local Affairs and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e716	I am delighted to ask the following questions: ‘In the class struggle on 20 January, it appeared that municipalities are building increasingly large institutions for the development of people with disabilities. Organisations of users and employees use the concept of ‘gettoisation’. Responsibilities reform aimed at distinguishing housing and services for people with developmental disabilities and at providing individually adapted housing services. What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that these institutional units are stopped and that the reform is implemented as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e725	We are aware that in some municipalities there are concerns about construction issues where a large number of apartments are collected for people with developmental disabilities, drug problems or mental disorders. I have also seen the look-up in the class struggle. The size has taken the view that special care or institutions for persons with developmental disabilities should not be built up. We're following up on this in several ways. People with developmental disabilities shall be provided with the assistance they need in order to live and live as independently as possible. Those with a high need for assistance often have to have a dwelling that allows staff to be available 24 hours a day. The dwelling must also be designed in such a way that it is suitable for providing and receiving services. The legislation of municipal health and care services states that an individual assessment of the best offer is to be made. The provision of services shall be designed as far as possible in cooperation with the recipient, and great emphasis shall be placed on what he or she thinks. The decision must make it clear which elements the municipality has focused on and which reasons justify the user's best care for his needs, e.g.: moving to a new dwelling. If the recipient or auxiliary worker does not agree with the assessment, the decision may be appealed to the county council. In several places, day-to-day care centres are built and users with extensive service needs are often offered to move there. It may be a good solution, but the municipality must not make moving a condition for providing the necessary services. The right to the necessary services is, in principle, independent of residence. The Health Directorate assesses the prevalence of such cases and the need for specific follow-up. The State stimulates the construction of nursing homes with lucky day services through the investment grants of the Husbanken. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and I agree that nursing homes should be adapted to people with cognitive failures. Small units should be built and suitable outdoor areas should be provided. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has clarified in 2010 that this needs to be done when the Husbank grants investment grants. I listen to what user organisations say. The Norwegian Association of Developmentally Disabled People has recently published a book entitled ‘Towards Own Housing’, in which people with a developmental disability show good solutions for establishing their own homes. I am sure that the experience of these people could be useful in planning processes in the municipalities. I have therefore taken the initiative to send this book to all the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e740	I thank you for your answer. I would like to first grasp the sentence where the Council of State referred to the clarification that had been made to the House Bank. Today it is that the House Bank guarantees 40 pst. of the construction sum of dwellings for persons with developmental disabilities. But when we contact the House Bank, we see that there are still very big differences in this practice. Some municipalities say that there is no grant if it is not under the responsibility reform or the government's leadership. Other municipalities are not familiar with the responsibility reform or government leadership and give over a low shoe. How will the Council of State follow up on this? Will the Governments make changes to the Husbank’s legislation, so that no grants are granted if the intention of the responsibilities reform and the leaders of the Government is not followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e747	This is a very important question because it is not that we should be able to circumvent the legislation in order to get back to where we once were, when there were large institutions for the development of people with disabilities. As regards the municipalities, the counties and the counties, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has just clarified in 2010 that this legislation on housing for people with disabilities needs to be respected with regard to the granting of grants. I can at least say that this is a problem that I want to address with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, because I think it is important that we do not get into the situation of building large housing complexes that can be like institutions. Then I have to make sure that I have not seen the details of the plans mentioned in the class struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e756	I thank you once again for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear that she will deal with this with the Minister of State and ensure that there is no institutional structure for this service provision. That also leads me to the next question. If we go back and look at the reform, we see that one of the main goals for users was to distinguish the housing needs from the services on the one hand. Some development plans now use one argument against another, and it is claimed that tuna and housing make it easier to operate the services. Some arrangements have been made for users to adapt to services and services are not adapted to the user. As I understood the responsibilities reform, the services should be adapted to the individual user. How will the Council of State follow this up to ensure that we continue to have a distinction between housing and service provision and that the offer is made in such a way that it is adapted to the individual user?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e765	There shall be a distinction between the service and the dwelling, and it shall not be such that any person may be forced to move to a particular dwelling in order to obtain the services to which he is entitled. Services shall be assessed independently and individually. With my knowledge of the municipalities, that's how we've experienced it. Then it's enough that in some contexts you build housing where there are some users living together. It's not just negative, because this is a group of people who may have difficulty making social contact in a community, and it can therefore have many good social side effects. But it is quite clear that they should have their own home, it should be voluntary to live there, and it should not be that you live in a special dwelling that should be the basis for which services you get. This is important to clarify, and once again: this situation is also something I want to talk to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs about, because it is an important clarification, and it is important that we clarify it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e784	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e817	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e823	‘The Court of Auditors and the Health Directorate have identified systematic violations of patient rights. For example, the Riksrevision has shown that the deadline for mental health treatment is set according to the hospital’s capacity, and not according to the patients’ need for help. The report on waiting times shows wide variations in the allocation of rights to treatment and the scope of time-limits. What has the Government done to correct these errors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e830	The specialist health service receives more than one million referrals per year. It is essential for health care that referrals are quickly evaluated. Act on patient rights and regulations on the prioritisation of healthcare, etc. shall contribute to the fastest provision of healthcare to patients who need it. Nevertheless, as Mr Höie points out, it has been different in the practice of the priority regulation and in the granting of treatment rights. This is not acceptable, and we have launched several measures to address this. References shall be assessed in the light of the main conditions of the Regulation: severity, expected benefits and cost-effectiveness. Patients who are assessed as eligible for the necessary health care shall be given a medically sound period within which healthcare should be started at the latest. Patients who are not considered eligible for the right may be placed on a waiting list and be offered free of charge. The national audit report on the study of the provision of specialist healthcare to adults with mental health problems showed different practices at outpatient clinics in 2007–08, for which patients are denied the right to the necessary health care. Prioritisation guides in the field of mental health protection for adults and for children and young people provide the basis for proper prioritisation. Guides shall be decision-making aid in the assessment of referrals. It is clear that it is the patient’s condition to determine whether the patient is entitled to the necessary health care, and for when time is set for investigation, treatment or other measures – that is, it should not be the hospital’s capacity. These counsellors are made after the National Audit Office's report. I want to mention the work done on the further conversion of mental health protection and on strengthening municipal provision. The handles announced in the 2010 state budget are concentrated on the whole and interaction. Among other things, 30 million has been allocated. kr to psychologists in the municipalities. This should benefit people with mild and moderate mental disorders. 50 million. kr is granted to obliging interaction models between the municipal health service and the specialist health service in the mental health field and to further bet on outpatient multidisciplinary teams in the municipalities. District Psychiatric Centres should be the foundation of future specialised mental health services. The DPS, in cooperation with the municipal service, shall ensure the establishment of a comprehensive local-based mental health service for the population. There is still a need to strengthen and further develop the DPSs. In the mission paper, I have asked regional health companies to continue their conversion work so that the hospital functions are fed more and the district psychiatric centres are able to carry out their tasks. The proportion of patients entitled to the necessary health care and the proportion of time-limits is important management parameters in the mission document. The Ministry follows up the results on a regional basis with the regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e845	Both the National Audit Office's report and the Health Directorate's report state that there is a difference in the practice of patient rights rules. The Council of State has now presented in a way the rules and laws that exist. There is no lack of laws and regulations in the healthcare system, but there is a lack of order related to the follow-up of these rights. So I almost have to repeat the question: What concrete action has the Government taken since the Riksaudition report was presented in November 2008 – and the Health Directorate report was presented in the second quarter of 2009 – to ensure that the patient rights that apply are followed up in all businesses? We have now, in the last analysis, clear examples of how patients' rights have been manipulated. These two reports confirmed that this was true of several health businesses over a year ago. What concrete measures has the Government taken to correct this situation after the reports were submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e852	Following the presentation of the National Audit Office’s report, these priority guides in the field of mental health protection for adults and children were designed to provide the basis for proper prioritisation. It is the patient’s condition – not whether there is capacity in the clinic or hospital – that should be the basis. It is to follow the patient rights under the Patient Rights Act. In any case, my impression is that this is something on which regional health companies have a high focus, precisely to be able to fulfil patients’ rights. Because we want to give patients a better offer and an equivalent offer – not a different offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e859	The priority regulation is given to those who have given the right to the necessary health care. Within psychiatry, priority regulations have been created. The Health Directorate's report concerned the somatic disciplines with large regional variations in the right allocation. In the VG on 31 January of this year, the Minister of Health said in connection with the performance of Erna Solberg from Right, that Erna Solberg could not have read the Riksrevisionen report, and that these conditions cannot be compared to those of the Hospital Asker and Bærum. The report of the National Audit Office states: ‘One clinic would leave patients with the information they require, but this is also done in other clinics. [[...]] Is this completely different from what happened in Asker and Bærum? And what has the government actually done to follow this up with all the health businesses, including in the somatic sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e873	Now I answered this that was about mental health protection, because I also perceived the question as being about it. With regard to the prioritisation counsellors, my clarification is that they were made after the Riksaudition report. As far as the situation in Asker and Bærum is concerned, I think it is appropriate for a separate forum, when both the Health Inspectorate's report and the police's investigation have been clarified. I think it's going to be wrong to bring it into this discussion. We are committed to clarifying to the regional health companies the rights that patients have. It is a responsibility that I experience that they take and that they work with every day. That's why we're constantly developing better and better tools, just to be able to follow up patients and patients' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e883	Then we go to question 9 -- and this is where it starts to get complicated. The question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him, but will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e889	This has been a complicated matter for a long time, so why should it be solved so quickly today – but I appreciate that the former Minister of Agriculture is at least willing to answer my question, which says as follows: ‘A terrible animal tragedy has been allowed to develop over several years on the Northern Railway, where thousands of reindeer and elk have been killed on the Salt Mountain. More and more people feel discouraged that no one seems to take responsibility for animal trading services that affect not least the reindeer industry. It may now appear that further time will be needed to put protective measures in place, as a new regulatory plan is said to have to be in place. Will the Council of State immediately take action to halt the animal massage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e898	I should first of all like to draw attention to the fact that I am answering the question in agreement with the Minister for the Environment and Development, and otherwise there are still some trains going on diesel. Regarding the question that was asked, I would say that the number of animal driving varies from year to year and throughout the year, among other things. as a result of the amount of snow, the activities of the animals and the availability of feed. In recent years, a lot of good work has been done in the railway works, not least in view of preventive measures, but also in relation to measures to minimise animal pests in connection with driving. Fencing is the most effective measure to prevent game and tamrein from entering the train line, but it will be very expensive to have to enter the entire network. The sewerage industry in the Nord-Trøndelag has assumed responsibility for coordinating and prioritising actions throughout the Nordlandsbahn, and overall, the reindeer industry has made proposals to the Railway Agency for three routes – a total of 15 kilometres. As far as other measures are concerned, the Railway Agency has cleared the forest and carried out spraying on the most stressed routes. In addition, emergency measures have been taken, such as the construction of track-side trackways in connection with major snowfalls and repairs of damaged fences in the Dunderlands Valley. Another immediate action The Railway Agency has contributed funds to, is the use of helicopters for the collection and movement of tamrein out into the coast. As the Ministry of Transport has been informed, the Railway Agency and the municipalities with the most traffic on the Nordlandsbanen have good cooperation on the challenges this represents. In 2009 it was granted 5 million. kr over the state budget for fences on the Nordlandsbanen. Two million. kr was to be used for fences on the Salt Mountain, between Semska and Sørelva, but this money was not used in 2009. This measure provided for a derogation from the rules on protection, but the decision of the county council on the exemption from these rules was appealed against by several parties, and the railway works had to postpone the construction of the fence. The funds have therefore been transferred to the year’s budget. As far as I am aware, the exemption decision has now been repealed by the Directorate for Nature Management, and the case has been returned to the county for review. Based on its coordination instructions, the county council has called the parties concerned to a meeting on 4 February in order to coordinate efforts to reduce the number of road accidents. It's tomorrow. The Railway Agency is further working on an impact assessment on the installation of a fence on the Salt Mountain, with a view to implementing this in 2010. Stopping train traffic on the Nordlandsbahn, or requiring trains to run slower, will result in more of the train traffic being transferred to truck and car traffic on the roads. That is why I believe that this is not a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e915	We are exposed to a serious paralysis of action in this matter. I addressed the matter for the first time in May 2007, and was optimistic after I received a reply from the Minister for Transport at the time. After that, probably between 1,000 and 2,000 animals have been killed, massacred. This case suffers from the sacrifice of animal protection by all parties, including government agencies and nature protection organisations which take care of their particular interests. So with open eyes, you pay with that now at this time you massacre animals almost daily. I assume the Council of State agrees that this cannot continue. Someone has to take responsibility for cutting through. Will the Council of State now take responsibility for cutting through, or will it continue to bear witness that perhaps 500 to 1000 new animals will be sacrificed before action is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e920	From the process that has gone on so far, it is obvious that there is a consensus that there are some parts of the line that are more exposed than others. At the same time, there is money to do something in the most stressed areas. It is, as I pointed out in my main post, a reality that the process has taken some time, because there has been some disagreement with regard to protection interests and whether setting up fences in the area is sound. Now there is reason to believe that this process is on track – at least on the side of the track, in the sense that the work can get started again. This should mean that when more fences come in place, you get the loss figures down. Otherwise, I am not in doubt that the other measures are also being worked on, which are individually important measures, but fences are referred to as the most important individual measure. There I have expectations that 2010 will be a year when one gets more fence in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e925	My question will be whether the Council of State – as a former Minister of Agriculture and as a professional in the field – is now taking personal responsibility for checking the conclusions of tomorrow's meeting to which the county council of Nordland has called. I want a confirmation of this, because if not, the government team will take responsibility for thousands of animals being sucked down on the Northern runway, which has evolved into Europe's most closely organized animal tragedy. I would like to remind the Council of State that the reindeer industry was in place on the Salt Mountain long before plans for a national park were planned, and long before the railway was put in place. This is about people having to take responsibility, that special interests are not allowed to get at the expense of an industry that is now suffering. Those who do reindeer business suffer loss, not only in the form of animals, but economic losses and other losses that now require political action and not the use of a waiter's language: this is not my table, it's another's table.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e930	I'm taking the whole challenge out of my former commitment, also for the sewerage industry in Norway. As Minister of Agriculture, a reindeer is also a minister of reindeer. The fact that the reindeer industries in Norway face major challenges, partly as a result of profitability, partly as a result of predators, but also as a result of, we say, the technologically opposite of the large community around them, is completely, clearly clear. I am also sure that there are assessments that the Minister for Transport shares. I will take with me the clear recommendation that comes from the representative of Kristiansen to also follow up the meeting that will be tomorrow, political, to the Minister of Transport, and I am absolutely sure that will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e939	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, 16 crimes are committed daily and are not resolved. Although there is a slight improvement in relation to the past, this creates frustration and uncertainty among the majority of people. What will the Council of State contribute in the short term in order for people to regain faith in security in their everyday lives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e948	First of all, I just have to say that people obviously believe in security in their everyday lives in view of the investigations that have now been made about trust in the police. The police are cutting very high, and Hedmark is no exception. We'll be happy for that. We shouldn't spread more fear than we actually have to do. The representative's question has been submitted to the Police Directorate and to the police chief in Hedmark, who stated that the percentage of the police criminal record has been below the 38 p.m. target. in recent years. However, there has been a positive trend in the percentage of clearance from 2007-2009, with 37,0 pst. in 2007, 37,6 p.m. in 2008 and 38,7 pst. in 2009 – the difficult year 2009. So there's every reason to give honor to the Hedmark police district so that you don't actually go down, but that you actually manage to go up. Most unsolved cases relate to profit-criminality. This takes one seriously, and the police district is constantly working to improve the outcome, to create more security and less crime. As far as confidence and security are concerned, Hedmark is doing very well in the Integrating Survey for 2009. Studies also show that the number of persons exposed to crime in 2009 is consistently lower than in the previous year. We have to be happy about this. This must therefore be described as a positive development. The situation in the police has been a challenge for several years, mainly because it was trained for a few policemen when the previous government crashed, with the support of the Progress Party. This is why the government has increased the admission of 552 students to the Police College in 2009, and now to record 720 students in 2010, among others. with the good help of the police college that we have established at Kongsvinger. I think it will facilitate recruitment in Hedmark as such to train 150 high school police students from the region. This is what we are doing to respond to the needs identified in the Police Directorate’s crew report ‘Police against 2020’. In addition, the package of measures, which was also presented in January last year, established 460 new civil posts at the police and officers' seats. I don't think there's ever been a greater boost in civil positions. I know you've really appreciated it in Hedmark. Hedmark Police District got 17 of these civil works and they are now continuing in 2010. Hedmark came out well in the distribution of the civil year works. In order to further increase police force with rapid impact, as part of the new special agreement on police working time, which entered into force on 1 October 2009, an agreement was made to increase the working time of many police officers by one hour. This represents a resource increase of about 230 years. For Hedmark Police District, we're talking about six years' work. For 2009/2010, this is a big deal for the police, which in total represents a bet of more than DKK 1.3 billion. I also want to point out that one of the most important things we can do to get the percentage of information up is to continue the DNA reform. After the DNA reform was introduced, the number of searchable persons in the DNA registry has increased by 40 pst, and now accounts for a total of 16 600 people. Nearly 3,000 policemen are trained in the DNA reform to secure biological traces at the scene, and twice as many tracks are secured at the scene. Around half of the tracks entered in the register meet registered persons. This year we're going to use approx. $120 million on this DNA reform. For Hedmark Police District, as the representative asks, the budget has increased by 18 million. kr from 2008-2009, there is an increase of 8.3 pst. The 2010 budget has not yet been allocated to the districts. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the government has provided a large increase in the budget for the police in the period 2005-2009 of more than DKK 2.3 billion. If compensation for salary and price increases is deducted, the increase is more than NOK 1 billion. So in 2010, we're increasing by 1.3 billion kroner, after a price increase of 1.2 billion kroner. We will follow up this investment in police force, so that it is translated into better prevention, increased clarification and a more visible and accessible police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e965	I would like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good answer. We all have a common goal – both the Minister of Justice, signed, the rest of those sitting in this Chamber, and otherwise – that we should bring down crime. That's good. But what's not quite that good is that although there is an increase in financial resources and personnel, crime is also increasing. Unfortunately, many commit criminal acts. If you look at the Glåmdalen newspaper on 19 January, it says a name that is one of 5,779 unresolved issues. If you blush on in the paper, it says that six out of ten crimes are unsolved. It is clear that when you are one of the 5,779 issues, or one of the six of the ten issues that are not resolved, you feel a certain frustration, and you feel a certain uncertainty. It's the uncertainty that may spread a little, unfortunately. I give great honor and have great confidence in everyone who works with these things, they do as best they can, but crime is unfortunately a little big.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e974	I share the questioner's concern about crime. But we'll be careful to say that it explodes, and especially in Hedmark. Indeed, the surveys show that there are fewer victims of crime. If we look at the number of killings, which is the most serious crime, they've halved in the last 20 years. If we look at the transport of goods, mail and banking, we've almost zeroed them out. In many areas very good results have been achieved. Then we have areas where we have opportunities to better prevent and prevent crime from occurring, and there I'm going to invite the Progress Party to be more involved. The cities that have now tightened up at their turnout times have had a decrease of 30 pst. in the crime of violence. For me, it is a mystery that the questioner and the Progress Party could not more fully support this kind of action, rather than going in the opposite direction, where it is said that you should open all the cranes, which would give more crime, also in Hedmark. Where the Progress Party has the opportunity to prevent crime from occurring, the Progress Party is on a completely different track. This is a broken picture. We can't just count the number of police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e983	One thing has at least two sides. In the HA on Saturday 12 December, we see that we react to the presence of closed doors, and this applies at the Hamar Police House. It says: ‘On weekdays, the police station is closed after 3 p.m., with the exception of Thursdays. Then it is open to the public until 6 p.m.’ Obviously, when you meet closed doors in a city like Hamar when you need help, it creates some frustration. I fully agree that the police should as far as possible be out working, but it might have been a bit safe and well that there were some open doors. In addition, it is said that more money is given, and that is well and good. But there are a number of expensive investigations, such as: can read about in Glamdalen on 18 January. It says: «The investigation of the Langeland Drapet has charged the police in Kongsvinger with an extra SEK 1.5 million in expenses. And they shall not cover five ears. Obviously, if a county office or police district gets a lot of these expensive things, it will go beyond investigation and work in other matters – that you don't have money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1002	The costs incurred by Hedmark police districts in the killings case in Kongsvinger, the church fire in Våler, which the questioner has been concerned about, and any other type of crime – when it comes to over 1 million. kr to find the killer in Kongsvinger, where Kongswinger did a great job – is covered for the crowns of the public. There are no other budgets to take from, or from, private or own pockets. These are crowns that Hedmark police district covers and that come through the police budget. You can't expect, when there's serious events, that you have to co-finance them. All the crowns and expenses pointed to by the representative Bredvold are covered by the public. Our point is that it is important for police districts to be able to deal with serious crime, and that is why we are making the grips we are doing now to increase staffing so clearly. We would have a huge challenge in the Norwegian police force, including in Hedmark, if we were to introduce forward-looking party policy, for example. in relation to donation, traffic and other types of prevention areas, which would generate a high rate of crime growth that no budget could cope with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1010	‘Sunny District Court has conducted 41 child interrogations in 2009. None of these have been carried out in children's homes, because the nearest children's home is in Trondheim. The resource situation makes it impossible to resolve a hearing with such a long travel period and, in many cases, the need for accommodation. It is important that all children in question are given the same opportunity to make use of the good offer made by children’s homes. In the election campaign, Minister of Justice Storberget promised Ålesund that he was lucky to have children's homes. When are children's homes established in Ålesund?»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1017	I just want to say that I'm very happy to get the question. I stand by all my promises, and especially when it comes to babysitting. It's something of the most important government has done in this area, in my opinion. In the Soria Moria statement, the government said we want to ‘ensure a better holistic and coordinated offer to children who have been subjected to abuse by, inter alia, assessing the establishment of a ‘child’s house’. I must admit that we have not kept what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. Not only has the Government assessed the establishment of a children’s home – it has assessed it, decided to establish a children’s home, and made sure that it is established children’s home. We have not only established one children's home, as the Soria Moria Declaration states, but created six children's houses – in Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, Trondheim, Tromsø, and now last in Oslo in September 2009. I am proud to say that we now have a nationwide offer with children's houses, and that we have overfilled the Soria Moria declaration in this area. In the election campaign, I said to the evening post on Thursday 13 August 2009, to which the representative quite rightly refers – and it must be allowed to say in politics that we took a short cut to point out the two places that are now in the offing, and it can invite a lot of debate when we are going to start finding places – that if we won the election, as we did, we would continue to bet on community solutions like children's homes, rather than unsocial tax relief. And I've said that we're going to set up children's homes in Stavanger and Ålesund during the ageing period. I'm standing by. Children’s homes have a lot of work to do with children and relatives who need help and care. However, I see that the travel distance can be a burden for both the child and its relatives. This applies to several places in the country. The dilemma is that we cannot have children's homes in each municipality. The system of children’s housing is set up to ‘ensure a better overall and coordinated provision for children who have been subjected to abuse’ — it may be for hearings, for health professionals and child protection, and for better evidence protection. I assume that the police and the courts have this in mind when considering whether to use children's homes for court hearings and medical investigations, or competences related to these kinds of cases in the police districts, and in particular where there are their own teams. I am pleased that both the majority and the minority in the Judicial Committee – during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget were also the Christian People's Party gradually included in the budget set up – clearly underlines the need for children's housing, and that further development is positive. We have in Prop. 1 S for 2009–2010, i.e. in the budget we are now in the process of implementing, proposed that the Government facilitate the establishment of a new children's home in Stavanger to meet the needs expressed by the Rogaland District District Courts. This will happen in the current year. In the same proposition, the government has signaled that there will also be a children's home in Ålesund. I have noted the support for this from the majority of the Judicial Committee. It is the Police Directorate who will be responsible for implementing the establishment, and the Directorate is made aware of this priority in the current year's letter of assignment. Future budgets during the ageing period will show when the children's home in Ålesund will come into place, but that's what's next.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1039	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. This has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party every year, one that we've worked a lot on. When the More bench visited Ålesund thing right last week and we saw the interrogation room for children and mentally retarded people, I reacted strongly. Despite a small amount of money, employees have made a room, an interrogation room in a basement, but a hearing situation far from what is needed to create security in a vulnerable situation. Children need, as the council said, both follow-up and treatment. 41 children at Sunnmøre stood without this offer, and I look forward to finding a solution. As I understand the Council of State's answer, it will come during the pouring period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1046	That's our ambition. We clearly said in the election campaign that there are two places in Norway – Stavanger and Ålesund – that are ahead of us during this big time period. We're a little careful to "roll out" this system, because it's a newly established system. I'm glad this has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party all these years, but the issue in the last period, when the Christian People's Party was in the government offices, was that nothing was established. That's now that we've got speed in this, by actually building children's houses. It's very important. I hope that the Christian People's Party will be an important alliance partner also in the future when we are to secure and allocate the budgets. I am convinced that the questioner will certainly take care of Ålesund’s interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1060	‘In a look-up in Stavanger Aftenblad on 20 January 2010, Petoro and Statoil open up for electrification of oil installations in the Norwegian Sea. The profitability of offshore electrification will depend on the number of installations connecting to the same land cable. There is a general consensus about generating electricity on the socket, but this will create additional challenges for the power situation in central Norway. What new power project must be in place to ensure stable power supply in the region if the project is to be implemented?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1067	The government has implemented comprehensive measures to improve the power situation in Central Norway. One of the main elements of the strategy for achieving this is measures under the direction of Statnett. Statnett has invested in Central Norway since 2001 for less than DKK 5 billion and plans to invest for approx. DKK 2.5 billion. Statnet has also implemented a number of networks for, among others. maintaining the import capacity in the area. The Nea–Järpström power line was started in the autumn of 2009 and increases the transmission capacity between Central Norway and Sweden. The second main element of Government policy to improve the power situation in the region is the commitment to renewable energy and energy conversion. As part of this, the NVE has strengthened its capacity for concessional treatment, which has doubled compared to 2005. The NVE prioritises issues in regions with a high power deficit, including: Middle Norway. In 2009, from January to August, Enova allocated more than 162 million. kr for projects in central Norway. These projects will generate new energy production or save energy consumption equivalent to about 300 GWh. In 2010, Enova will have a total of SEK 1.8 billion transferred to work. It provides the basis for continuing the Government’s high commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement this year, which is also important in the context of the situation in Central Norway. Overall, the measures taken by the Government have provided the basis for a significant improvement in the power situation in central Norway. In addition, the government is working on additional measures to improve the power situation in the area in the future. In particular, a transmission link between Sogn and Møre, the so-called Ørskog-Fardal link is important. This connection has been approved by NVE. The case has been filed and is being dealt with in the Oil and Energy Department. Government policy to improve the power situation in Central Norway is also important in terms of the possibilities for further use of power from countries in the offshore petroleum activities in the area. The assessment of shore-side power is required for all new expansions and major conversions in the petroleum activity on Norwegian base. The operator shall, inter alia: assess different energy solutions and provide an overview of the amount of energy and the costs of supplying the installation with power from land. In accordance with this, the government will assess the appropriateness of a force from land-based solution when a given extension application, i.e. a plan of development and operation, is to be approved. In this context, consideration of the power situation in the region will be central. The introduction of the obligation of connectivity will help to facilitate good coordination of the development of consumption, production and transmission of electricity, as well as the timely coordination of processes. It will be a condition for electrification of new installations in the Norwegian Sea that the power situation in the region is considered satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1084	I do not feel sure that this will be resolved in time. We see that Petoro and Statoil open for electrification of Åsgard, Heidrun and Kristin. In addition, Worm Long Phase 2, which also opens up to an additional need in a region with a sub-coverage of 5 billion to 6 billion kWh. So the challenges are big. A modern gas power plant, even without CO2 handling, will almost halve the CO2 emitted compared to today's produced offshore space. Does the Council of State see this as a solution that is good for the environment, climate and for the region?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1095	I find various projects related to the production of power in gas power plants interesting. That's also one of the reasons why we've given concession to a project in the area. However, a prerequisite for this is that good clean-up solutions are put in place and emissions are managed. This is forward-looking and good energy and environmental policies, and I am absolutely sure that we will see a lot of good technology development in the future in terms of cleaning up gas power plants. The speed with which the technology of these projects could be used in relation to the other measures, see network improvements in the area, it is not possible to say anything about today, but the fact that we have different processes running to help improve power availability, and the fact that the projects – as I just said – will not be implemented if the power supply is not good enough is a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1105	‘State forest is in conflict with more than 10 000 owner-occupiers across the country about the amount of the fixation fee. The fixed contracts between the State and the cabin owners have been concluded for many decades and can be found in up to five variants. For cabin neighbours that are only a few meters away from each other, the price may vary from 1,300 to over 10000 kroner. This discrimination leads to great frustration among cabin owners throughout the country. Does the Council of State agree that all equal tenants should be treated in the same way, and will the Council of State consider the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1112	State forest SF has about 11,000 fixed-dwelling contracts for residential and leisure purposes, most of which relate to cabins. More than half of the fixtures are in general government, where all revenue is shared between the local mountain governments and the Landowners' Fund, which is to be used for local action. These are important revenues for local communities. In the context of Stateskog’s up-dating of the fast fees, there are about 350 cases where parties have not accepted a new fee and the cases have been dealt with in the legal system. That many of these parties would have liked to have seen a lower fixation fee, is understandable, in the interest of the individual party, but in my view the claim that Statskog SF is in conflict with more than 10,000 tenants is to take it seriously. The Law on Landings sets clear limits on the possibility for landowners to regulate the fixed fee. The law distinguishes between different types of party contracts. For contracts that were most common in the past, only up-dated corresponding to the consumer price index will be allowed. For more recent contracts, up-regulation by market value will often be applicable, but only once. As a result, the timing of adjustment could also result in market value differences. Based on current legislation and what has been agreed with the individual land fasteners, there will still be differences in the fixation fee for land similar to each other or which may be close to each other. That because of favourable contractual relationships, some keep very low fast fees, is a consequence of this, but, in my view, is not necessarily a good enough reason to deviate from market regulation there and when this is agreed. However, I do not want to hide the fact that fixing a fast fee for Statskog, as for other landowners, has been a difficult and controversial process. Statskog has lost some of the cases concerning an increase in the fast fee, and the appeal committee of the Supreme Court has recently refused to deal with Statskog's appeal in one of these cases. As a result, Statskog is now making a thorough assessment of what this would mean for the other fixed contracts it manages. I trust that this is done in a tidy way, where both the rights of Santas and the interests of the community are respected, and therefore I do not see the need to go further into the matter now, as long as Statskog is in the middle of this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1123	I'm very disappointed in the answer, because it doesn't seem like you've thought about resolving the discrimination that's going on. As I have said, there are up to five different contracts, and cabins that are 10-20 meters apart may have a price difference with respect to the fixation fee – it may vary from NOK 1 300 to NOK 10 000. You say you're exaggerating. The Frustrated Feasts Association alone has over 10 000 members. Who's exaggerating, we shouldn't go here, but you might want to take over the frustration that's in the country. I want to follow up with a new question. In the past, the government has stated that the prevailing market price thinking is very confusing, and that a fast-moving is not an uninhabited filth. The Government further states that access to land leases should therefore only be allowed after the index of consumer prices, and no up-regulation should be allowed after market prices. So this is what the government has said, and then my question becomes to the minister: Does he agree with what the government has previously said?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1132	I understand that the representative Treldal expresses disappointment. But when he says that we have not intended to resolve the matter – as he puts it in the comment – it obviously has the background that I believe it is not right to override a company's board, which is responsible for addressing this issue. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the principles of good ownership – which have also been endorsed by the Advance Party – mean that we should have the Board complete its proceedings before any further proceedings are taken. What is important here is that State Forest is required by the Storting to conduct commercial and market interests and to safeguard the interests of the Community by using the possibilities of income inherent in the fastening system, as are other opportunities for income that they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1141	I find it strange that the Council of State does not take into account what happened in the Court of Justice a short time ago. The Chairman of the Board of Statskog, Marit Arnstad – the party colleague of the Council of State – stated in connection with his accession that State Forest had to bring the matter into the legal system for a final decision. The Supreme Court has held — on 12 January this year — that Stateskog’s argument against market regulation being ‘manifested’ is not sustainable. Despite a shattering decision in Höjsterrett, the Chief Executive Officer of Statskog said to the Address Paper on 25 January: ‘We want clear clarifications on an unclear regulatory framework.’ In my opinion, a unanimous decision in the Supreme Court must be sufficiently clarifying, and Statskog should take the signals given by the Supreme Court as soon as possible. When you're into this with ownership, it's now the state council that has ownership through its government, and then I think the state council has to make sure that state forest cleans up, once and for all, so that equal treatment among the parties in Norway becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1153	In line with what has been decided by the Storting, the Council of State will await the consideration of this matter by the Board of Governors, even after the Supreme Court has taken its decision in its judgment. I want to make it clear that I understand that Statskog appealed the case to the Supreme Court, because they have some issues that they have won over the parties, and some things that they have lost, so that it was necessary to get a fundamental clarification. Now the board is in the middle of that work and will make this clarification. I have of course trusted that they will follow it up in a tidy way. I would like to stress again that the Progress Party has also been involved in deciding that we will operate State Forest in a commercial way. This means that they must use the resources they receive. This means creating income for the communities, and this means creating incomes that can lead to the development of business and open-air living in the communities. There is also a responsibility for the Governing Board to follow up, so here are important and decisive balances that need to be made. I have confidence that the board will do the job they are going to do, and then you will have to assess the matter after they have taken their decisions in line with the principles of good ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1162	Question 14 has been answered earlier in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1168	‘On January 19, 2010, a reading in the Evening Post about a father who thought he was the father of a daughter for 32 years. A DNA test showed it wasn't him. Now misjudged fathers will have upliftment and compensation. Many people are experiencing severe difficulties and mental disorders as a result of such issues. Does the Council of State agree that women should or should be penalised for disclosing the wrong father?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1175	Until 2003, the general rules on readmission for cases dealt with by the court also applied to pharmacovigilance. There were then very limited possibilities for reopening cases that were legally settled. Today, there are special rules for resumption of pharmacovigilance, such that men who believe they have been assigned the wrong fatherhood have the right to bring proceedings before the court in order to have this tested. Then it covers the public costs of DNA analysis. If a man is found free from fathering, he will be able to claim a refund of the child contribution he has previously paid. According to the rules we have today, any man who wants it can require DNA testing before danger is established. They can also sue about fatherhood for children born in marriage. The blood type analyses previously used in hazard matters were less reliable than current DNA analyses. The Court then used blood tests as one of several evidence. From 1992 only DNA analyses are used in hazard matters. Today, therefore, we can determine whether the determination of the legal hazard in the past actually matches the biological one. Hazard cases involve a burden on all the parties involved, not least the child. Today, we have very liberal rules in Norway in terms of changing fatherhood, so that anyone who is in doubt is allowed to file a case in order to determine whether legal and biological hazards are coincident. In addition, men who believe they are the father of a child may refer to the child’s fatherhood. So it's that kinship and identity are closely linked. "Missing" the danger with which you've grown up, and getting a new father you don't know, or maybe no father at all, can be a great tragedy for the people who are affected. However, I believe that today's rules for reopening cases in which danger has been convicted by the court are appropriate. There are rules on the indexation of the reimbursement of child contributions together with general claims rules that form a strong framework here and that should, in my view, be sufficient compensation for the financial loss. I have no faith that criminal prosecution of the child's mother will contribute to the experience of these matters as less exhilarating to those involved. From that point of view – because it must be the intention that in that case we can achieve something with it – I will not go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1190	I want to thank you for the answer, and I understand that the Council of State will not go in for women to be punished. But Norwegian law provides poor protection for the convicted fathers – they get poor compensation. The council itself stated that they would be refunded what they had paid for child contributions, but in addition, these fathers also suffer mentally. It has also been argued that Norwegian law can violate the European Convention on Human Rights, EMK. There are several cases that, after the EMK in fact, give men the right to not only real compensation, but also compensation for torture and pangs. My follow-up question to the Council of State will then be: does the Council of State see that Norwegian law can conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1197	All the signals we had to get that Norwegian law would be against, for example. The European Convention on Human Rights, we will take seriously. I do not have any point of view that this is the case, but it is a matter on which, of course, we in the department must follow. So we have a code that allows you, if you're misjudged by danger, to get an index-linked refund of what's paid. In addition, we have the usual replacement law that allows us to claim compensation. Then I think a further criminal reaction in that case would have to be motivated by general preventive considerations, that we should prevent this from happening again. There has been a lot of Norwegian legislation and with our basis to be sure to establish fatherhood since these matters we are talking about here had their origins.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1206	I hope that the Council of State will look at this, whether Norwegian law should be better, or whether we should get it in accordance with the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD. I have quite often asked the Council of State questions about father, and the mental problems a father may have, but this is also about children. The legal certainty of children is incredibly important in these matters as well. I have received several enquiries from children who have grown up and who experience that the whole or half of their life has believed was father, suddenly is not father – and they are also being excluded from the family they thought was family. These are traumatic situations. In any case, it is important for the Progress Party to ensure the legal certainty of children. All children have the right to know who is father. Then my follow-up question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council of State agree that the legal certainty of children is also very important here, and that the child has the right to know who is father?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1215	Yes, I agree. It is clear that it is a goal that we have the child's best interests in relation to these kinds of rules. Often these discussions become a discussion about and between parents, and what is best for parents. As politicians, we have to dry up to the point that we are going to make rules that are best for children. It could be controversial sometimes. This also applies, I believe, to matters where children have grown up, because there may be a lot of pain involved when one has a case going on, for example. a misjudged danger, even to the one who has grown up believing that you are this person's child. That's one of the reasons why I'm skeptical about entering into a law that's going to prosecute this beyond what's already in the law today. But the fact that we're going to have a code, and we have a code, which emphasises the children's right to know who the source is, is a broad political consensus in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1220	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-03.ana.ud2135e1233	There is no record. I do not know if I should ask the representative who is left in the Chamber if she wishes to speak before the meeting is cancelled. – That does not seem to be the case. The meeting has been cancelled.
