ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e105	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen For the Province of Buskerud: Elizabeth Skogrand and Kjell Børre Hansen For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen For the county of Hedmark: Torbjørn Dybsand For the province of Hordaland: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad For the Nordic counties: Liv Hauknes For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland For the South-Trundellag counties: Knut Gravrök and Lars Bjarne Tvete Anette Trettebergstuen, on Friday 18 June, has been applied for health leave by the Workers' Group. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Farahnaz Bahrami, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e169	The representative of Farahnaz Bahrami is present and will take his seat. The representative, Mr Skovholt Gitmark, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e174	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Gunnar Gundersen, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, the pleasure of presenting a proposal for full transparency on Norwegian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e179	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e182	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Tord Lien, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the measures to be taken against maintenance seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e187	The representative, Mr Giltun, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e190	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim, Peter N. Myhre and myself, it is pleased to make proposals for a government grant scheme for the organisation of housing for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e195	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e199	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose to ban hijab, niqab, burka and other religious or political symbols as part of work suits for Norwegian judges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e204	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e207	The left will also help to ensure that there are some good proposals on which the staging representatives can work during this so-called summer holiday. On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I will present three proposals: on measures to strengthen preparedness in the event of an accident related to drilling and production at large sea depths to set a target of 25 pst as soon as possible. reduction in the administrative costs of business related to regulations and forms by 2012 on a clearer warning protection and establishment of a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e224	The representative, Knut Arild Hareide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e227	On behalf of Hans Olav Syversen, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and the signatures, I am delighted to make proposals to abolish the establishment of a transport network, according to the model from Sweden and Finland, responsible for road, collective, aviation and maritime transport, in order to ensure sound planning, maintenance and development in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e232	And finally, the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e235	I am pleased to promote a proposal by the representatives of Per Sandberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen, and signed on measures relating to the acquisition process of new rescue helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e240	The proposed representatives will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate on case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e269	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 80 minutes, Progress Party 50 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and up to three lines with replies from the parties' main political and parliamentary speakers as well as other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e280	A little over a year ago, the world economy was on its way in free fall, and we saw that we were facing the strongest setback in the international economy since last World War. The Norwegian economy was also hard hit. We were afraid that unemployment would increase, that businesses and jobs could go bankrupt, that the world's financial markets would continue to rage at record speed, and that banks could go overboard. The crisis showed that there was a market that at least had clear imbalances. But what was joyous was that this crisis was also met with political muscles and that politics also worked. The crisis was met with the fastest and most coordinated global crisis package we may have seen over time. The comprehensive package of measures is aimed at the international financial market and contributed greatly to countering many of the negative interactions between the markets and what we call the real economy. In Norway, the government also presented effective and successful action packages, and subsequently we have seen that these have produced results. However, there is still considerable uncertainty about economic developments, both internationally and in Norway. It is clear from the timing of the revised national budget, which the Stortinget is about to deal with today. In other words, the crisis is not over. It's just taken a new form. Competition-affected businesses in Norway, today perhaps mainly linked to the shipbuilding industry and other vulnerable industries, face tough times. There's a danger that people here might lose their jobs. We're going to take that seriously. There is still an international uncertainty about the phasing-out of many of the measures provided by different national authorities. The problem is that if we phase them out too quickly, it can dampen the alerting task of taking care of the workplaces in many places in Europe and in the rest of the world. If they get out too late, it's at least as demanding. Then, eventually, both the deficits and the government debt of many countries can become completely unmanageable. In other words, it is a rather demanding balance between many elected politicians in Europe and the rest of the world. Internationally, the rise in government debt may be worrying. Extensive fiscal policy measures and increased transfers include: to unemployment benefits and other national transfers, as well as significantly lower tax inputs through the financial crisis, have led to large budget deficits and imbalances in many countries. What is the problem is: if in many of the markets it is perceived that there is a real threat that countries are unable to maintain their own financial stability, trust also fails, and once again we can experience setbacks, as we do. has seen in Greece. We had a debate here yesterday on the state financial situation of the state accounts for the country of Norway. I have to say, once again, that there is reason to remember ourselves, here in this House, and the people, how extremely privileged we are in Norway. The ashtrays that many countries are now facing are dramatic. This means that the revised national budget we are going to adopt later today is marked by a great economic uncertainty, and the economic turbulence that prevails in Europe is a reality that we also have to deal with at some point in time that already affects Norway, and will affect the Norwegian economy. However, there is reason to remind each other that, after all, Norway is facing quite different challenges from many other countries. In the future – through the harvest we are facing, and in the years to come – the job in Norway must be primarily to take care of the very good results the government has managed to achieve, together with Norwegian business, through the first part of the financial crisis. We must ensure that we have what we call freedom of action in fiscal policy. It is quite simply that if a new demand-driven crisis affects our country, we must have economic muscles to be able to resist it as well and once again increase the use of oil money. Then we also have to dry down the use of oil when the situation indicates that this is correct. Thus, the revised national budget is not the time for either the most creative or comprehensive proposals. Stiff course and economic leadership are what is now the goal. I expect that those parties – especially one of the parties – that have, here from the interlocutors today, early on, promoted major new additions to the State budget, will explain how to deal with it within an economic framework that will provide economic leadership and safe governance in the years to come. We know that Norwegian businesses and jobs do not exist in a vacuum. Our businesses depend on other countries wanting to buy their goods. Therefore, we must never forget that even the richest country in the world cannot live on bills and crown pieces alone. We depend on living by each other's work and trading with others. Then, as politicians, we have to take responsibility by keeping order in our own house, in our own economy. That is what the government's draft budget audit is all about. We're taking down the oil money line -- it's 17 billion. kr lower than we added to the budget last autumn. The consequence – we've always said that over time we're going to dampen the oil money usage and approach the 4pst track – is that the distance to the 4pst track is now estimated to be just under 26 billion. kr, towards almost 45 br. kr last autumn. However, within this framework, it is our task to put in place measures and proposals that stimulate growth and to maintain and further develop Norwegian jobs. We do that primarily by keeping the economy in order, reducing the use of oil money, but also by pursuing an active industrial policy. I will very briefly come back to some of the most important suggestions in the vote. Firstly, we are launching a comprehensive package of measures, a yard package, of 200 million. kr, as previously presented by the Minister for Industry. It includes, inter alia: increase of the GIEK framework. There are measures that are going to be good in many of our long-range, coastal struts, which depend on good conditions for this industry. Overall, this is a necessary package of measures that will contribute to the development of competitive industries, to stimulate and realise profitable projects and, above all, to facilitate conversion – a shift we have to expect will result from lower demand for many of the services and goods produced by this industry. Secondly, the allocation of labour market measures is proposed to increase by 245 million. kr in the position after we have moved a little over a few million kroner through the Committee's work to strengthen work and education trips for the disabled. The response is distorted towards measures that are more appropriate and better adapted to the needs of users, and we suggest that there will be an average of about 75 000 sites for action in 2010. It's still high. Thirdly, one should not have been much outside the four walls of the house at least here in the East until one has noticed that there has been a demanding winter and spring for the railway and eventually also on the trail of asphalting and other things in transport and infrastructure. As far as the railway is concerned, we are therefore increasing the appropriations for the maintenance and repair of the rail network by a total of 276 million. kr. I guess that's the money used. Some other main points in the vote: the police get more money to transport non-residents who are not legally resident. We strengthen the Road Service's budget for the maintenance of asphalt and other. And we're fixing some smaller things there's been a need to fix. I will save the assembly to frame the whole list, but there is a review tone in all the proposals that they are within a financially sound framework that will take care of the development of Norwegian business – a list of proposals that will contribute positively to work, economic growth and employment. Otherwise, I would just like to mention briefly at the end that there are also several important tax procedures in the cancellation. We remove the tax on the incineration of waste. The CO2 tax on gas is being introduced, and not least the very important matter – but perhaps a small curiousity – that the seaweed trawls are now being exempted from the CO2 tax on mineral oil. [[Laughter]] Yeah, it's important, folks! Finally, there is reason to mention that there is one particular issue that has shaped the treatment of the revised national budgets here in Stortinget this spring, and that the question of full-scale CO2 treatment plants in Mongstad has received a slightly unusual treatment. The question in its entirety has been raised out of the examination of the audit by the Financial Committee, and consultations and comments in the report are the energy and environmental committee that has taken care of. We have only raised that whole position in the proposal for a decision of the Financial Committee. I refer you to a separate one that comes later in the debate on these questions. In summary, we should be happy that we have leadership and a government that takes care of Norwegian work and that will safely relieve us through several phases of the financial crisis. It is the most important thing that politicians in this Chamber can contribute in the context of the revised budget. With this, I am presenting the position of the Financial Committee on the 2010 RNB.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e329	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e332	In a speech to the AUF youth on Utøya last weekend, Prime Minister Stoltenberg stated that the debt crisis in Europe is a final farewell to tax havens in Europe. He also said: ‘Tax relief is absolutely irresponsible.’ That means that the Prime Minister refuses that tax relief can act as a growth incentive and that lower taxes do not lead to more activity in the economy. Does the Chairman of the Financial Committee agree with the Prime Minister that tax relief is ‘absolutely irresponsible’? If the Chairman agrees with the Prime Minister, is it also ‘absolutely irresponsible’ to provide tax relief for membership of trade unions? Or does the prideberg principle not apply to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e339	The head of the Financial Committee seems to have made an excellent statement to the Prime Minister and that he is quite right. In fact, it is now that countries by country, including those with far-reaching governance and authorities in line with the Progress Party and the right-wing parties here in the United Kingdom, are cancelling many of their proposals for tax relief. It should make an impression of the opposition here in the house, as again in the revised national budget, in addition to the proposals they had in their ordinary alternative budgets for 2010, propose tax reductions in the billions class. We need every penny in the future to meet the community's need for safe care, better roads and better schools. I believe that it is irresponsible in a situation where the rest of Europe is notifying tax increases, that the world's richest country is spending the big money on tax relief. So the answer is yes, I agree with Prime Minister Stoltenberg in his characteristics of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e348	The debt crisis and the financial crisis are rolling over us, and we appreciate changing tracks from the previous period, where it was really just spending more money. There is a lot of talk from the Minister of Finance and the head of the Finance Committee about the need for good housing with money, and that we need to take care of the competitive sector. That's very good. But it builds expectations of taking action, and we find no trace of that in revised, rather on the contrary. Although oil money use is falling, the government's own indicator shows that the expansion of the revised budget is greater than it was in the budget last autumn. The question then is: does the representative of Micasen believe that this increase in expansion has made it easier to bring expectations down and to adapt the level of costs in Norway to the situation we are looking out for in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e355	Over several years, the red-green government has shown that we are able to run the Norwegian economy. There were a lot of protests just a few years ago when we put up a budgetary policy that was under the so-called 4 pst. path. There were many good suggestions to spend more money in several areas. But we kept going, and that was right. So the financial crisis met Norway, and then we've again increased the use of oil money, just to curb increasing unemployment and to help companies that lose jobs. So the situation is again that now we have to dampen the use of oil money. That is quite correct, and I agree with Mr Gundersen from the Right. I would say that only the morning today has shown how demanding it is to hold back and hold back money for good suggestions. I'll tip that many of the proposals that have been made here today are worth several billion dollars. We've been slowing down the oil money industry by 17 billion. kr. There is a good indicator that the government is willing to control the Norwegian economy through financial policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e362	I agree with Mr Micaelsen's representative that the revised budget should be used to do something about urgent matters, and I realized that tax relief for seaweed boats comes in that category. Another sector that might need some acute contributions is the drug sector. There are 4 400 drug addicts in line now for treatment, and the waiting time has increased by 13 days. This selects the government to do nothing - no session allocation. On the contrary, you subtract appropriations that were not used last year. I also think it would be good for society to offer drug addicts a treatment offer that they want and that we actually have free capacity to use. My question is, how can the representative Micasen defend the government's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e369	I am of the opinion that the welfare state of Norway is a fantastic construction. But I think that as politicians together we should take on board that there are some who have not been involved in the prosperity development that many of us have experienced. People and families struggling with alcohol in Norway are among them. I believe that it is good that we now seem to have a prejudiced debate on how to develop and renew Norwegian Russorg with a background in the selection proposals that have come this week. Because what they're showing is that it's not necessarily just money and new treatment sites that are the solution, but how we organize it, and how we set up the measures. However, money is also important, and that is why, since 2007, when the Ruplan was adopted here in Stortingen, the appropriations for the care of drug users have increased by nearly 800 million. kr. So I think that together we should take responsibility for this important group getting a better offer in the future, but, once again, then we also have to dry off some other proposals, among other things. the tax reliefs proposed by the right-hand party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e378	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e382	The Progress Party notes that the government’s submissions to the revised national budget do not take into account the fact that the situation has changed in a number of budgetary areas since the adoption of the State budget in November 2009. The Progress Party considers revised precisely as it – a revision of the budget. But then you also have to be able to deal with relationships that have changed, for example. in areas where the situation is now deteriorating and where the adopted State budget is based on a policy that does not take place. Today, when the Grand Duchy deals with the revised national budget, several European countries face enormous challenges. The euro is under considerable pressure and large amounts are granted in an attempt to stabilise economies. This has consequences for Norway. With our open economy and not least a large export-oriented business, many will mark the economic turmoil that exists in our main markets. I believe that the government has not taken this into account in the draft budget that has been submitted. Developments show that the economic turmoil is not over and that the situation in several European countries may lead to major challenges for Norwegian export-oriented business in the future. We therefore believe that, through the examination of the revised budget for 2010, we need to be able to make proposals to facilitate the situation for our business. This is why the Progress Party is promoting proposals for, inter alia, reductions in the employer’s contribution and improved depreciation rules. We also promote proposals for a border trade package focusing on the reduction of individual excise duties and customs duties. Relievements in taxes and charges for business are quite safe. This will contribute to an improved economy for many enterprises, which in turn will allow them to lower their prices, compete in the foreign market and avoid longer leave and redundancies than the government’s revised budget provides. But, as I said, the government obviously has not realized the seriousness, and does not promote the necessary measures, as one is more concerned with its political ideology and its refusal to tax relief. The Financial Committee recently examined a proposal relating to improved depreciation rules. In this connection, we received a letter from the Norwegian Industry in the Committee. The introductory part of the letter from Norsk Industri reads as follows: ‘Initially, we would like to stress that we are disappointed with the attitude of the Industrial Policy Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in the position’. This is a clear statement from the industry's leading organisation. Nevertheless, government parties do not take into account the current situation experienced by many companies. This again clearly shows that all the talk about job number one is to secure Norwegian jobs is just that – talk. In several areas, the situation has deteriorated since the adoption of the State budget in the autumn of 2009. In particular, I can point out the challenges in the health and justice sectors and that there is still a huge lag in the necessary investment in infrastructure. The Progress Party therefore promotes proposals for increased appropriations in these areas in the context of the revised budget in order to improve well-being and launch more necessary investments in the transport sector. Let me briefly mention some details relating to our main priorities. There are still more than 250,000 people in hospital queues waiting for some form of treatment, while free capacity is available from private contract specialists and private hospitals. It would therefore be very appropriate to increase the extent of the use of the offer by the private sector, all the time the waiting list and waiting time for treatment and rehabilitation are very long and increasing. It will be socio-economically beneficial to have people treated quickly and back to work rather than for patients to receive different social security benefits pending health care. In the justice sector: Despite the government’s boasts of allegedly prioritizing the police through this year’s budget, reality is quite different. There's a completely different reality out there than the government said would be the case when you knocked through your budget at the end of November 2009. Reports suggest that the police should cut down on more than 300 years' worth of work, while the newly trained policemen do not get a job. Information obtained in the media suggests that almost none of the newly trained policemen who have completed the Police College have been offered a job. This is contrary to the promises of the Minister of Justice when the Council of State set up several places in higher education. It makes no sense for the newly educated police to be unemployed while the department is screaming for more labour. This is why the Progress Party is promoting proposals for increased appropriations in the field of justice, so that new jobs can be made and good staff throughout the whole of Norway. Norwegian roads and railways are literally screaming for increased investment. The fall in demand is fast growing, and developments are moving in the opposite direction to what the government claims in terms of investment in infrastructure. Recent reports also show that Norway, as a nation in a number of areas, is saving itself and is not making the necessary investments. Therefore, through the revised budget, the Progress Party promotes proposals for increased appropriations, in particular for road development and rail investment. The Norwegian railway situation is critical. Capacities are detonated. There is little reference to the adopted national transport plan. In the 2010 state budget, it was found that the government’s own figures showed that it was already far behind its own plan. Even then, in November, there was only 850 million on the railway. NOK in the amount due. The basis for Norwegian value creation is the output of private enterprises. The Progress Party is therefore also promoting through the revision of a number of proposals that will facilitate better conditions for private business. We propose to increase the supply of labour, to reduce wage increases by offering tax incentives, to lower taxes and to increase investment in a number of important areas. There is also a need for stable, long-term and internationally competitive framework conditions for our business. Private business is currently hampered by a number of laws and regulations that place a strong damper on innovation, change and efficient operation. Even when we are dealing with the revision, it has to be remembered that it has to be cleaned up in the legal and regulatory jungle, so that the everyday life of businesses and entrepreneurs can become easier. The Progress Party therefore shows, through its proposals in the revised budget, that it is possible to reintroduce budgetary policy in a different way, which will improve the performance of Norwegian business. This ensures Norwegian jobs, many of which are busy and talk a lot about, but it is precisely through action that we can show that we care about Norwegian business. What we are discussing today is a revised budget, which is being discussed in the middle of the financial year. The Progress Party has therefore chosen not to promote all its traditional cut proposals. But let me remind you that there is a considerable room for large cuts in government expenditure in a number of areas, and we have shown that through our annual alternative budgets. But that's how neat we think it's okay to be when we're in the middle of a fiscal year. Making a big cut in the budget will be quite meaningless and not realistic, and therefore we are not promoting it. But we will come back to that when we deal with the national budget for the autumn. In conclusion, it is quite impossible to understand why, in one of the world’s richest countries, there are still major problems in health care, care for the elderly, the school system, the lack of resources for police and defence, and the lack of resources for road investment. It's not about spending more money. It's about making the right and reasonable investments that we need to secure Norwegian business and secure the future of the nation. Through the revised national budget, the Stortinget, if the government parties were willing to do so, could increase investment in key areas – and make profitable investments in the necessary infrastructure. But I note that the will is not there. I take this into account the proposals put forward by the Progress Party through the position of the Financial Committee, either alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e423	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e428	It's always interesting to hear the Progress Party spend on their – what to say – a little bit of homely economic theories. In the setting, this is enhanced, for example, by: the characterisation of one of the basic principles of economic policy in Norway, namely the rule of action. The progressing party says there that the rule of action is: «a collective political discharge under the economic and financial development of Norway». The problem is that the Right, which is the main partner of the Progress Party, has a warm defence for the very same issue. The question for the Progress Party is therefore: Will the representative, Mr Leirstein, characterise Hierre's policy as a political disclaimer with regard to Norway's economic and financial governance? And how do you think one should convince the Right that this is completely wrong and that one should rather go in the opposite direction in the economic policy that the Progress Party has snowed together?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e440	Let me first say that I think that the note to which the Micalen referred was unusually well written. No, I don't want to characterize Right Policy in general that way when you see how the Right is aligning its policies, among other things. in the revised budget, and what you choose to bet on. In a number of areas, we agree. But yes, there is also a distinction between the Advance Party and the Right, just in line with the fact that there is a distinction between the Workers' Party and the SV, if you read the principal programmes. But the Progress Party is of the opinion that we are absolutely interested in being able to sit down after an election, when the voters have, through elections, said what they want, and negotiated. But the Progress Party has a different device on its economic policy, and I am absolutely convinced that the most sensible device will be to provide the necessary investment, to invest in building up the country now at times when we need it, and to be equipped for the future. And in a number of areas, I find that there is a lot of consensus among the civil parties, and I am pleased to see that it is also in this position of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e447	The progress party has a tradition of having money for a lot. I think it's interesting to see if the Progress Party is covering up its proposals. In connection with the social security settlement, which was dealt with here yesterday, I think it was, it was pointed out carefully by the Right Representative that the Progress Party probably had not taken 3 billion. kr, as the lot proposes at the top to have a more attractive scheme for Norwegian pensioners. And then we have two possibilities. One, when the Progress Party has not taken this into account, is that the Progress Party has forgotten to include it in its proposal. In that case, it should be embarrassing. To forget three billion. kr is after all quite well done. The second possibility is that this is omitted on purpose. In that case, it's leading the retired people behind the light. My question is, which of these options prefers the representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e456	I note that neither is SV, which is part of the government, in its draft state budget covering all the proposals voted down by the Stortinget. Then you should get a pretty big and interesting exercise. What we do in relation to social security is that we invest resources through our national budget proposals, which are submitted before Christmas. The dry cleaning was dealt with yesterday, as the representative Thorkildsen quite rightly pointed out, and our proposals were voted down. I see no reason for us to cover them today, when the proposals are already down. That's why this isn't in there. But if the proposals of the Progress Party were adopted in the social security settlement yesterday, it would certainly be included. It's not the Progress Party it's on to cover this. We talk, for example: on a better everyday life for the country’s minimum pensioners. We're talking about 3 billion. kr, which is said to constitute settlement. I'm a little bit unsure if that's the right number, but anyway, there's a small price to pay to give a raise, among other things. to the minimum pensioners of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e463	The future requires stronger priorities. There is a general consensus on this, both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. At last year's state budget, the Progress Party will harvest its money. At least they gave the impression that it meant less use of money. Now, expenditure is going to increase by 3.9 billion. kr, the revenue is reduced by 2,4 billion. So they're going in the opposite direction to what they tried to tell us last autumn. Why is there a need on the part of the Progress Party to prioritise weaker now than last autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e470	Then I would like to point out that in the Progress Party's proposal for a revised national budget, we spend 11 billion. kr less than what was the chalk line of the government, including the Senterpartiet, when we dealt with the national budget last November. So we're going to spend 11 billion. less than the government at the time considered a reasonable use of money for the financial year 2010. The government spends 17 billion. kr less. It only shows how hopeless the debate on where the chalk line is for a financially responsible policy is, when, in a few months' time, the government itself beats its legs under its own argument for what was sound use of money six months ago. So the Progress Party has a good conscience for the actions we have put in now. It is not that all the proposals we are making today will automatically lead to considerable expenditure in the years to come. On the contrary, many of the proposals, including: investment in infrastructure, reducing part of the expenditure in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e480	In a turbulent time when many European countries are experiencing debt and job crises in the wake of the financial crisis, we can rejoice that Norway is still doing well. We have a better starting point than most countries. Norway is coming out of globalization through good prices for many of its exports and low import prices. We have large oil revenues, a flexible working and business life and well-developed welfare reforms. There is reason to believe that Norway and our jobs will not be affected in the same way as in many other countries. At the same time, the sky is not schistry. In the absence of growth in our main markets, demand for goods from our export companies is falling. Increased costs and stronger crowns further weaken workplaces. Central Bank Chief Svein Gedrem has described the consequences. According to Gedrem, Norway may lose entire industries due to increased costs and reduced competitiveness. This will, of course, be a hard hit in local communities that are unilaterally dependent on this industry. Norway has many examples of successful business conversion. At the same time, it is worrying that both Norwegian and international studies show that we have lost innovation in recent years. The public sector challenge is no less. For four years the rhetoric was: it shouldn't be on the money. Success was measured in money use and not in results. The consequences are strong growth in public expenditure, without reference to similar improvements in services. Again, the Governor warned, who at a conference in Stavanger drew parallels to Spain’s use of money in the 1600s. He said Spain spent hundreds of years catching up. There's a lot of people drawing gloomy pictures. At the same time, many, at least some, are beating their breasts and thinking that the whole world should really get adult education from the Norwegian red-green government. I think it's just as devastating to be seduced by the doomsday prophets as being blinded by their own success. I believe that there is reason to be optimistic on Norway's behalf if we could use our room for action to change the policy. We need clear ambitions and clear strategies for the development of a competitive and knowledge-based economy. But then we have to show the will to invest in knowledge and research and to facilitate innovation and innovation. Let me stress that there is no contradiction between knowledge companies and modern industry. On the contrary, we see that many of the successful industrial companies have just invested heavily in new technology and knowledge. That is why we propose in the revised national budget to invest more in the tax FUNN and better depreciation rules for machinery. This will facilitate the transition and secure many jobs. We want to improve the occupational training system, because we believe it is important that companies invest in their employees. We are proposing increased investment in knowledge and the creation of an environmental technology fund of 5 billion. kr. Revised national budget is not the arena for all rematches. At the same time, we believe that the government should have used this opportunity to change policy. The Minister of Finance has announced on many occasions that the time has come to reduce the growth of public expenditure. Increased profits and better tax revenue have led to a decline in oil money consumption in the last few months. At the same time, the expansion of the budget has increased. It would have facilitated the government's work if the policy mix had started now and not been postponed until 2011. The longer you choose to push the difficult choices, the harder they get. Therefore, the right-hand side reduces the use of oil by 2,6 billion. kr in relation to the government's proposal. At the same time, we are launching a series of reforms that will contribute to increased space for action in the coming years. I do not believe in welfare protection in Norway, but I am convinced that we need to safeguard the foundation of well-being. Sustainable well-being must be based on the simple conservative recognition that values must be created before they can be used. In the coming years, the growth of public expenditure must be slowed down. Then the challenge is to get more out of the well-being crowns that we already have. It will require the elimination of dogmatism and the provision of practical solutions to solve the problems and to ensure greater competition in the performance of public tasks. Let me mention two simple examples: the so-called neutral value added tax in the state and health businesses can be facilitated. This will enable private individuals to compete on equal terms with regard to public goods and services. We want to use Public Private Cooperation and have a pragmatic view of who performs the tasks. Just a few weeks ago, we got a new example of the government choosing dogmatism and ideology rather than practical solutions by frightening private property as a building blocker for nursing homes, also putting down the floor so that housing companies could be the builders for the construction of nursing homes. The consequence is that there are fewer competing jobs, less innovation and less competition, and also a risk that costs will rise. Norway is administrated. The time has come for reforms shifting resources from administration to services. We don't need a forest of supervision and directorates that's far on the way doing the same thing. Nor can we continue to employ more people when new problems arise, without at the same time looking at whether other tasks can be prioritised. And it's possible to do that. Yesterday, today's Business, the online version, could tell us that the Loan Fund has reduced its administrative expenses by 20 p.m. The loan fund has reduced staffing by 70 years, halved the processing time and reduced the number of telephone calls from 1.5 million to 500,000. As the manager of the Loan Box says: ‘Can we, with a budget of $300 million, save $50 million, yes but thank God, think about what the big floors can save?’ It's possible. The number of annual work is reduced, while the time for processing has been halved. Services improve at the same time as costs have decreased. This is a good example of the fact that it is possible to reduce public expenditure while at the same time providing services to the population. Many believe that the revised national budget has become a long yeast. The hearings in the committee also did not testify to the great interest. The Financial Committee had scheduled two long days of consultation, and we ended the first day before lunch. The LO considered that it was sufficient to send out a press release, and other organisations considered that it was obviously not useful to attend the Financial Committee. I think we have to take the situation seriously when so important social actors don't find it interesting and useful to meet in the Storting. This was the day after the Governor had drawn a future picture where Norway could lose all branches of industry, and then neither Norsk Industrie nor LO found it worth meeting in the Finance Committee to discuss strategies for how to secure jobs in the coming years. I believe that this is a significant challenge for this house, and that it may be a sign that many social actors are rather finding the way to the closed rooms in the departments rather than meeting the Storting to an open debate and discussion about the strategy in the future. In the vote, the Right proposes a policy mix to create a sustainable well-being and to secure jobs. With this I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e515	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e521	In the past, although I have disagreed in content, I am proud that the Right has led a responsible economic policy. Unfortunately, I can't do that anymore. The reason for this is that we are now looking at consequences in Europe as a result of irresponsible economic policies, and that many of the savings proposals of the Right have not made a sign of containment – or you cannot understand how to save that money. I can briefly mention a reduction of 600 million. kr in transfers to agriculture. A new agricultural agreement has just been concluded. In that case, it would mean a breach of that agreement, and that is not realistic. Why has the Right now begun to act as the Progress Party, namely budgeting with unvisable or unfeasible expenditure cuts? Will we now see that the Right is approaching the Progress Party in other political areas too, even if there appears to be a disagreement with the rules of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e528	I think the representative Thomas Breen and the Workers' Party will get a heavy job if you try to convince Norwegian voters that the Right is running an irresponsible economic policy. I think that's going to be a very demanding task. I think the Labour Party has enough of its own challenges to use the opportunity to try to convince Norwegian voters that we are irresponsible. Anyone who has followed Right History – from Kåre Willoch, our own government from 2001 to 2005, where we cleaned up the Norwegian economy and made sure that the Workers' Party could come to the table, as the Newspaper wrote – knows that the Right is pursuing a responsible policy. We also do that in the revised national budget, where we cover our additions and reduce oil money consumption by 2.6 billion. kr. We reduce agricultural transfers by SEK 600 million, but it is not the case that the Ministry of Agriculture is empty. It is not that you paid out all 1 January, and that there is no more money left. It's a It is a responsible policy, both for agriculture and for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e533	I am pleased that Mr Sanner's representative was basing himself on the situation in Europe. It's a very serious situation we're in now. It may be tempting to start by asking if the representative Sanner is among the 60 pst. by Right-wing voters who now think it is good that we are outside the EU – that it can sometimes be an advantage to be a different country – and that we are not part of euro cooperation? But I want to go further by asking if the representative Sanner has also received documentation that has come, in the form of a book called ‘The Spirit Level: Why Equality is Better for Everyone’. It is about how small social differences in countries are best for the health of the population – for everyone, not just those at the bottom of the ladder, how it creates less crime, how it creates longer lives for everyone, creates more creativity, better innovation, among others. in the economy. In short, it is better at all points to have small social differences. Will the representative, Mr Sanner, support such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e542	The answer to that is yes. That's what the Right has done throughout its history. We have been one of the builders of the Norwegian welfare community, and I agree that it has a value not to have too many social differences in a country. That is why we have always been concerned about ‘lifting the floor’, rather than holding people back. That is why we are also contributing to measures in our budgets to speed up people's return to work. I agree that a society that does not have too many social differences is a strength. We're trailers of the Nordic model. But then the representative of Thorkildsen must remember that an important part of the Nordic model is also a flexible working and business life. It is not that the Nordic model consists solely of welfare schemes. An important prerequisite is to have a flexible working and business life and to facilitate job creators for entrepreneurs, for innovation, for businesses. There's an important premise in the Nordic model, and it's always been a whole-hearted defender of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e549	Rarely have I heard – as now from the Right – that a reduction in the coverage of agriculture should not have an impact on the practitioners who are there. Rarely have I heard an unsaying from this pulpit that is so irresponsible! I asked for the word in line because Sanner said that entire branches of industry could be lost, cf. President of the Central Bank of Gedrem – and wanted to remove dogmatism from the right. Yeah, it's central. Will the Right then abandon dogmatism in the field of business neutrality, so that we can process the renewable natural resources we have – woodworking and fish – based on competitive conditions and put in place the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e558	The last government that used the term "nutritional neutrality" was the Stoltenberg I government. Our government did not use the concept of business neutrality. The right does not believe that nutrition neutrality is a mantra, nor does it mean that we have a dogmatic attitude to it. On the contrary, we provide very many of the industries in which Norway has a special advantage. It's about the maritime industry, where we've been a strong supporter of good tax systems, that's the case in forestry, where we also facilitate biotechnology. I think we need to be concerned about creating good framework conditions for our entire business life, while also taking into account that Norway has some comparative advantage – some advantages that we are going to build on. And I'm glad if Lundtigen takes seriously that we're in danger of losing parts of our industry. We must then invest in innovation and innovation and ensure that we have a sustainable well-being in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e563	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e566	The financial crisis was created by right-wing policy. Deregulation, market liberalisation, privatisation and policies for increasing disparities have brought many countries into deep crisis. Ordinary employees, poor people and young people have to pay for a crisis created by a small elite well assisted by right-wing, liberalist policies, among others. The United States, the EU and the WTO. Social unrest now affects many countries. Many people talk about the danger that an entire generation will grow up in free time. A lost generation, you say. In countries by country, people will notice the tightening up, in terms of lower demand and increased migration, which will once again increase the pressure on wages and professional rights. In such a situation, it is particularly important that we pursue a welfare state policy, safeguard public ownership, prevent privatisation and social dumping. The exchange of lines I just had with the representative, Sanner, was interesting. We're too small a difference, says Sanner. Well, if you look at what kind of policy Sanner and his party stand for – and not least what kind of policy Sanner and Right together with the Advance Party stands for – then the answer is probably different. In the meantime, one can get the impression that the entire opposition has joined the Riksrevision and that the main problem in Norwegian policy is that there is not enough SV policy. But the situation is actually this way, when we go into and see what is proposed in the budgets, that there are ideological differences that are important to raise also in the Norwegian political debate. It is now that there are several parties here in the Chamber who have a policy that will make the Norwegian economy more vulnerable to crises in the future, but that will also lead to an attack on what is a core value of Norway, which is a small social difference and a robust welfare state. The Progress Party and the Right want tax cuts of between 15 and 17.7 billion. kr. The two batches will make 27 of 34 billionaires zero-taxors by removing the property tax. It would be interesting to see how many from the middle class would be interested in contributing to the community, if it is so that they at the top won't pay anything. On the other hand, people who are particularly vulnerable in times of crisis are being released. People have to endure a greater degree of temporaryity in their working conditions. It is only to read contributions from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen in the debates that are taking place in the Labour and Social Committee. The fight against social dumping must be weakened because these are regulations that ‘disallow competition on wages’. In other words, some people have to go into pay in the future. And these "some" aren't the ones that are on top, because they're going to get zero in taxes, but these "some" are people who initially have very exposed jobs, very low wages from before, and who want no less security, but more security. People should be less encouraged to join trade unions. Public ownership must be challenged through extensive privatisation, at least if we are to believe the Advance Party. Greater elements shall be provided by commercial actors in the healthcare system. You talk about it so nicely – it seems so good. But the problem is that the market forces will eventually become the priority between patients, about the priority debate, and then it's not like those who are the lowest on the ladder, who are the top priority – those who are chroniclers, and on whom it's not easy to set a price tag, because they may require treatment that is not as predictable, and they can't benefit as much as patients who may be higher on the ladder. Gender equality policy must be weakened. Redistribution will no longer be a political goal if Norway is guided by the right parties. It's a matter of who's in charge. Thus, with the situation in Europe as a back ground, it is worth recalling this book, as I mentioned, ‘The Spirit Level: Why Equality is Better for Everyone’, because it shows that small social differences provide better health and longer life expectancy for all, better trust between people, less crime, better living conditions for children, better equality, increased value creation, less consumer debt, etc. In short, most of it is better for everyone in communities where differences are small. That's what we're after. In addition, we have a major challenge in transforming the Norwegian economy so that it becomes less oil dependent and less vulnerable, because Norwegian companies are too dependent on oil as it is now. Then we have to take a force together by using control, and neither do we lean here on the market forces, because they are not going to settle this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e586	SV likes to call itself the railway party. When we read how things are going with the railway, we see that the capacity is blown up, there are delays, Schenker and Posten take out the freight and send it with trailers instead, even at long distances. Even then, SV will not be in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party of 360 million. Extra kroner. So in addition to that, you can take out a record profit from Baneservice. The managing director of Baneservice, Lars Schallnes, says to the TV2news.no. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘When the state takes so much dividends, it means that the increase in capacity that we had planned in the strategy it can be forgotten and we must continue at the level of capacity we have today.’ How does this harmonize with pressing this company so much with the strategy that SV has on more railways?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e598	I think it's interesting that the Progress Party has started to care about the railway. And that's good, because we need a strong pressure to get the railroad up and up. As a representative who comes from a state where the train still runs on the track from 1881, I am the first to applaud an increased commitment to the railway. In connection with the climate agreement, we made sure that we got an increased stake on the railway. We have made sure that the reconciliation from the previous period, where SV was involved, was raised into the first budget with our government. We've been working on the revision of rail resources, which goes beyond what we're going to use on the road. But there are considerable needs in the future. We're going to make sure the railway gets more money, but it's also important to make sure they have the skills, the people who can make use of this money. It is one of the problems, that the previous government has provided for the launching of competition and the final packages that led to the disappearance of core competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e606	It was interesting to hear SV's budget entries, which were essentially about the opposition's budget proposals. I understand that very well when we see how little the Swedish policy has in the government's policy. Environmental policy is a robust stomach patch, and it is almost beginning to become a habit that SV has to apologize to the poor of the country in relation to the poverty reduction promise made by SV. We see an SV that now in the state budget cuts the money and standard data equipment for those who have the biggest read and write difficulties – the dyslexics. My first question to Thorkildsen is, what does SV have against the dyslexics, when you cut so much money on them? The second question is that the Right has a proposal, in the case of children in poor families, on support schemes for the payment of the quota for participation in recreational activities for children from low-resource homes. Why is SV voting against such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e613	With regard to the first that was claimed, namely that environmental policy is ‘a solid stomach patch’, I can only point out that in this budget for example. there are two things that characterise the revision of appropriations. One is about rail – which we were just talking about – but the other is about environmental technology, where it now becomes an innovation that is extremely important, and where we want to see a completely different device on very much of the support that goes to Norwegian business. When it comes to the issue of grants for ICT aids for students with special needs, we could, on the SV side, so far wish that the state scheme was continued. However, it is clear that all students are entitled to cover the equipment they need to complete the training, and now it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide it. We have to follow up to see if people actually get their rights fulfilled, but the rights are in the booth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e620	Let me first say that the opposition would think that the country's biggest problem is that there is not enough SV policy. I can cancel that. Then the representative Thorkildsen was strong at the failure of the market economy and went to a strong defense for the welfare state. That's very good. My question is then: how can it be that under this government, and partly under the Swedish State Councils, the market economy principles run so hard in the field of child protection and drug addiction that voluntary institutions are scattered one by one, so that representatives from the same institutions are now in doubt whether there will be anyone left in five to ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e627	I want to say that I am very pleased that the representative Syversen is asking that question, because some of what we – and not least our Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Audun Lysbakken – have addressed, is just to look at this point: how we can distinguish between ideal actors, non-commercial actors who have a completely different aim for what they are doing, and commercial actors on the other hand, who aim to create the most profit possible. It's important that we distinguish between the different actors. What's at the top of the Audun Lighthouse list is to make sure that we can use non-profit institutions, but that we're not going to have the private, commercial feature of child protection. The same thing we have to make sure on the ground. There have been some problems with the EEA Agreement. We think that from SV's point of view is absurd, but we believe that the space for action is there, and that it is possible to make the distinction that we believe is important, and in which we agree with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e634	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e637	The revised national budget is a combination of the 2010 revision of the State budget and the discussion of new knowledge over the last half of the year, learn from it and prioritise the country’s future financial resources. Revised revenue and expenditure are increased and reduced. There is a reduction in the use of oil money by 19 billion. kr. The situation in Norway is very positive. We have a strangely low unemployment, which we must be very happy about. At the same time, there is an increasing pressure towards greater wage and income differences between people, and there are many who mention more and more that there is a strong back to bear good days. In particular, the revised national budget points to changes in economic terms, to more money for upgrading the railways and roads and to increased labour market measures, so that unemployed people and people with disabilities can gain more work experience, for example through temporary wage subsidies. It gives marine respect, it gives mastering, and it gives sea urchins. Furthermore, it is corrected on the waste side by the removal of the final treatment charge, in order to improve the competitive situation of Swedish waste incineration plants, and the yard industry has been given the necessary consideration in view of the demanding challenges it faces. There is a change in the economic situation for Norway. Our particular positive income flows from oil and gas revenues change faster than we have absorbed. The latest financial statements, the 2009 government accounts, showed that the total profit from 2008 to 2009 was reduced by 232 billion. kr. The oil-corrected deficit was increased by 85 billion. NOK and the net cash flow from the petroleum activity was SEK 136 billion. kr less. There's much greater economic change than what we've been taking over, and we need to understand that we're going out of an oil and gas epoch, sail if it's going to last many more years. EU countries are our main trading partners. We have an economic union with a common central bank and a common interest rate, and countries with very different economic conditions are now in very difficult situations. Common currency and interest rates strongly contribute to major economic problems, and we are now seeing measures to remedy this system, which provides a basis for major social unrest. It's alarming, yes, dangerous. It is working towards a political union, for over time it is not possible to have an economic union without a political union, with the right of the Union to taxation of persons and companies within the territory of the Union. The problem, however, is that there is hardly any democratic support for such a political union. Today’s international debate is increasingly moving towards regulating financial markets. In the 1990s we had a discussion about Tobin tax, tax on financial transactions. It was a predictable proposal, but that was not the basis for it at the time, because then it was a different political culture. Now, however, there is the opening-up of financial transaction taxes in ever-increasing circles. It will contribute to three things: stabilising financial markets, raising revenue and ensuring a better distribution of the tax burden. The revised national budget shows reduced estimates of oil and gas revenues over the years to come, and the revenue from the financial statements is lower than it is budgeted for, so it is an important area for which we need to be careful. There is a need for a stronger industrial transformation towards green industry. We need longer supply chains in the processing of renewable natural resources. We have a long history of competence and the necessary financial strength. We need an interaction between private and public capital to ensure that. In the future state budget, the key word will be priority. One must give priority by slowing down expenditure and one must give priority to areas requiring greater effort. Our main trading partners in Europe, the United Kingdom, Germany and Sweden, rather today to set up taxes and taxes. So there is a significantly smaller international pressure towards reducing taxes and taxes. It is an important challenge for Norway that we set in one direction, so that we take the necessary international considerations. We need to invest in production and regulate the financial sector so that it can fulfil its role, which is set around the construction works, which is to be a stronger productive life, while increasing efforts to ensure the most jealous economic conditions among the people. It has been one of the characteristics of Norway, and it must also be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e671	The association of machine contractors provided fresh facts and analyses of the construction market so far in 2010. It shows that there is still a lot of free capacity to build roads and railways. There are very few tenders out in the first quarter. It is necessary to go back to 2007 to find the corresponding low level. Especially small contractors wear out. Companies with fewer than 20 employees have very much available capacity. So the industry now has fewer jobs in road construction than before. So in Norway we have a lot of unemployment among workers, and an industry that is ready for work. At the same time, we are witnessing, as we have talked about earlier today, that we have a railway in decline – overhead lines are falling – and many dangerous roads, especially in Lundtigen's and my home country, Buskerud. Why will Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie not support the Progress Party in investing more in infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e676	There is no doubt that we are impatient about developing our infrastructure. The association of machine contractors is the organisation that organizes the smaller contractors. What best suits the smaller contractors is upgrading and maintenance. We are very pleased with the government's efforts, with the Minister of Transport at the head, in terms of upgrading and maintenance, because that is what can best connect the needs of machine operators for increased tasks, and the needs of society to ensure that the maintenance of roads is improved. It is on the county roads that the need for upgrading is strongest. At the same time, there are at least planning requirements, as there are many simple measures involved. That is why we are pleased that the Minister for Transport prioritises it, because everyone is entitled to a minimum standard on their public roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e681	For almost five years, the red-green government has had as a sort of spinal reflex to vote against any proposal that comes from any of the bourgeois parties, whether it is objectively good or only subjectively good from the opposition. It is a group on Facebook that sent the representative Lundtägen a question as to why the Senterpartiet could not support a proposal promoted by the citizens. The group's name is 'Self-Equal Rights for Workers', and it's very uptight about Facebook. The response from Lundtigen was as follows: ‘Everything coming from the opposition shall normally be put down.’ My questions to the representative Lundtigen are: Is there a constructive way to pursue policies? Is that a way in which he, as a magnificant and representative of the Red-Green Government, is convenient? Is the quote correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e691	The quotation is correct. It is an honest statement, which applies under this majority government as under previous majority governments. Because it says ‘as a rule’. This means that, in such a situation, there should be a special relationship to change that the government should have the necessary freedom to prioritize economic and political matters and spend the necessary time thereon. The Self-Employed Working Group is a rewriting of what most people call maritime business. They're responsible for something very important. It is very central to the government parties to ensure that the seafaring traders get conditions that allow them to develop that business better in the future, because here many start their business with the form of company, as a seafaring trader.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e698	When we discussed the 2010 State Budget, the Central Party's fiscal spokesperson, Mr Lundteigen, said the following: ‘It’s no surprise when I now say that the change power that the Storting has in this budget is significantly less than the change power it has had in previous budgets. It's the Center Party and I the first to complain." My questions will then be how the representative Lundtigen sees the power of change as being revised. Has it changed? Is he satisfied with the state now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e708	The revised national budget is a revision of the budget, so the need to exercise change power in revision is different from the other. What I'm pointing out is the general conversation outside, and as the Ombudsman for my voters in Buskerud, it's important to take over the messages you get, and make sure that you have a dynamic interaction between government and greatness, while at the same time the basis is in Stortinget. So good communications, good priorities and consideration of the different interests that lie within a red-green alliance are necessary to ensure the vitality and well-being of the alliance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e713	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is Hans Olav Syversen. The syverse has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e718	Three minutes is not much. But we have an adjustment of over 350 pages, and the changes in the budget are 2 million. kr in this setting, so there are relatively many minutes on the two million at least. But it says something about the absence of both the normal budget and the revised budget, and that is the dynamic that should be between organisations, people and this enlargement, which is really gone. This is illustrated, inter alia, by: that fewer and fewer people find it worth reporting to hearings. Within the framework of the revised budget, the Christian People's Party has chosen – within the same economic framework, largely, as the government – to change the mechanism to address some acute issues that we believe should be addressed. This applies, as I mentioned in a line change, to over 4,000 who are in line for drug treatment. Here the government is withdrawing money instead of making sure that those who need help get it – incomprehensible. Child protection, according to the Minister of Children, is in crisis, in particular municipal child protection. What does the government do with that? Nothing, on the contrary, is drawn, among other things. the return of funds to vulnerable children and young people in large cities. Security is a core value for most people, and we can now imagine that the autumn and summer will be problematic for the police, with increasingly tight operating budgets – more and more money being transferred to key projects, such as: ICT. We spend money, so we can keep the effort against crime that is necessary. Then we change the tax and tax arrangements so that we turn it in the green direction. Let me give you an example: we propose a lower annual charge for cars, and instead increase the CO2 charge. There are some government parties, with the green profile they want to invoke, should have a certain interest in. But unfortunately, we don't get any penetration there either. Then we strike a blow for volunteering. We now know that the gift allowance for non-governmental organisations – that tax deduction – is under pressure. We want to show an offensive attitude – and increase it. We also increase the limit on payroll obligations and exempt more non-governmental organisations from employers’ taxes. We believe that the civil sector is a carrier in Norwegian society and should be treated accordingly. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e738	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e743	Three minutes is not a long time, and at least you don't get very good time to give the government the brilliance. But I can try to help you with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e748	I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e753	The Christian People's Party has been high on the track for a long time in winter and given the characteristics of the railway in particular. When I read the revision, I can't see that the Christian People's Party has made any proposals for more allocation to the railway than the government has proposed. Can the Syvers confirm that the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the government's extra allocation to the railway? And if you get time during the answer minute you have, are there other areas where you want to say that you're satisfied with the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e758	The President must remind us that even in the change of line, all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e761	I must confess that I think it might be somewhat bold to ask for praise from the opposition in terms of the government's handling of the railway after the autumn, winter and spring we've had, so I'm afraid I'm going to disappoint the representative Opheim something. We're going to go into the government's budget proposals. Why do we do that? Yes, because, among other things, we do. Sees that this government did not have the power to use up the funds allocated for 2009. At least you can use up the money you had at your disposal. Then we agree with the additions made by the government. We are prepared to contribute to increased appropriations for the railways, but then it is a prerequisite for having plans that can actually be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e769	The word that I'm left with after the speeches by the representative Syversen as the common word is ‘security’ – security for most people. So implicitly, one must create a security beyond what a seaman has the ability to achieve on his own; the community must contribute to greater security than that. It's a hugely important and challenging entrance and very central in the future. Does the commitment to security – in that sense – mean that the Christian People's Party in the future budgets will place more emphasis on generous economic relations between people than what has been done in the past, that is to say, one will contribute more to the security that was being tried here as a brand name.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e776	I think it was a nice summary of my article. In a time of so much financial turmoil – in countries outside of us, not least – I think people need to see that there is something that is a little firm and a little persistent. I would like to commend the government for having implemented a policy, including that of the Stortinget, in what must be described as a difficult economic situation for periods, even for Norway. We are prepared to prepare for the community, but we are also prepared to ensure that those who take private initiatives, and who contribute to the community, get good conditions for their activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e783	It is a matter for which I believe the Christian People's Party has to concede co-responsibility, bearing in mind the line taken by the representative Opheim instead, namely that there was a lot of core competence within the Railway Agency under the Centre-Right-Registration, and that this is one of the causes – not all – of the problems we are facing. I want to ask a question related to cash support – not the usual cash support, but cash support for car buyers. The Christian People's Party has its own proposal to give NOK 25 000 in cash in support of people who buy what the Christian People's Party calls environmental cars, cars that emit less than 120 grams of CO2 per person. Kilometres. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that these are not environmental cars. Secondly, I would like to ask the representative of the Syversen to contribute to ensuring that we go further on the device on which the government has put itself, which ensures that we also stimulate the zero-emission options and not the cars that are now competing with other fossil-powered cars that emit less.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e793	I also enjoy sitting on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs next to being on the Committee on Finance, and the picture of the problems of the organisation of the Norwegian railway system is perhaps somewhat more complex than that expressed by the representative Thorkildsen. She can read in the Riksrevision's report on exactly this relationship. Then I am prepared, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, to discuss all the good measures that will give us a more environmentally friendly car park. OK, SV does not like our proposal to introduce those who buy cars with low emissions, but SV does not agree to change the annual fee, so that you can lower it and then increase the CO2 charge for those cars that have high emissions, and thus contribute to a much more environmental direction in the future. But I hope we can have a new opportunity to discuss the arrangement for next year's budget, and we're ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e803	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e806	As others have noted, there have been several years since less attention had to be paid to the treatment of the revised national budget. Of course, the government's draft revised budget is not clearly political, but it is also due to the fact that the representatives of the government parties are not really allowed to change anything, except for a small 2 million re-priority. kr, which has been covered by several. As a new member of the Financial Committee, I found it disappointing that few organisations had put to the hearings – I had enjoyed the hearings – but they have well taken the facts into account and found that no matter how good the case is and how good the arguments are being put forward, there is no help in getting here on the Stortinget. More and more decisions and open disagreements are being moved from this house into enclosed corporate spaces. It's basically the biggest concern about what we're dealing with here today. It is also with some wonder that I note that it is the Left who proposes the greatest repriorities and does so within a responsible financial framework, with a total use of oil money that is approx. One hundred million. kr under the government. We have a clearly different profile in terms of the willingness to invest in our priority areas – teachers, research, small businesses, rail/collective transport and poverty. Left rates focused on the future of our alternative approach to the revised 2010 national budget. The key to a good school is better and more motivated teachers. In the revised national budget, the Left, in particular, prioritises an increased effort on this very point. The left suggests an overall increase of 500 million in school and teachers. kr. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Left proposes an additional allocation of 225 million. SEK for training/teacher lift, 75 million. NOK to recruit more teachers and SEK 50 million. to follow up our own proposal for a representative to increase the state funding of further training of teachers. The left will not accept slicing and cutting in research and higher education. From the point of view of leadership, Norway is in the process of becoming a back-end in terms of its willingness to invest in research. That is why we propose an overall increase in research and education spending of 550 million. kr. It is investment in knowledge and investment in the future. In addition to increased basic funding and more research positions, the Left focused on climate and renewable energy research and environmentally friendly fuel of 70 million. kr and an increased investment in industrial research of 75 million. kr. We need many more new businesses in the future if we are to ensure well-being for future generations. If we're going to do this, we're going to have to make sure that more people start on their own -- not least more women. We then have to remove all discriminatory rules and arrangements for self-employed workers. The left therefore proposes an overall increase in the investment in small businesses and businesses of 480 million. DKK, as well as a targeted tax relief for business of about 1 billion. kr. I would like to point out in particular the proposal to strengthen the social rights of the self-employed, including: by granting approximately 140 million. kr for increased self-morbidity compensation from 65 pst. to 80 pst. This winter and spring have been marked by an alert crisis — the train crisis. The crisis did not come as a surprise to the Left. That's why we proposed 10 billion. kr more to rail than anyone else when the national transport plan was dealt with in Stortinget last spring. And that's why we proposed 1 billion. € more for railways in our alternative state budget in 2010 and proposes increased appropriations for railways, bicycle paths and other public transport of 625 million. kr today. The left will give priority to those who need the public's help most. The left has a special commitment to raising more poor children and families out of poverty. The left proposes to allocate a total of 650 million. to various measures to combat poverty, including: Three hundred and twenty-five million. SEK to increase the social assistance rates by 20 pst, and it will amount to NOK 1039 more per month for the sole beneficiaries of social assistance. The left also proposes to grant 100 million. kr to graded parental payment in kindergartens, so that the poorest children pay less than today. The left also proposes that Norway accept 500 more quota refugees, increase adoption aid to 1 G, measures to ensure the wild-axis, the introduction of self-rights to cardboard for all fathers and increased support for care pay for parents with children with disabilities. I'll bring this up to the left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e829	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e834	There is a lot I could have asked the left, for example. on the grant fund for self-employed persons which they have proposed, without entering the proceeds, even if they knew, on questions to the Ministry of Finance, that the first years would have a proceeds of more than 1 billion. kr. Earlier this week we discussed the reiteration tax, and there was a very clear left in the comment that this was an important industry with 100,000 added, and it was important with competitive framework conditions. So this is in the comment that the left hand side is in. At the same time, in fact, the Left wants to abolish the net pay scheme, which is one of the most important measures the industry has asked for. That's the first thing the red-green government did to strengthen her. Are the framework conditions less important in the case of Norwegian seafarers than in the case of taxation of rail laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e843	First to business and entrepreneurs, for whom both the representative Eldegard and I have a great commitment. There I am very disappointed with this government, which does not even facilitate social rights for entrepreneurs. If there's something the entrepreneurs out there are screaming for, and female entrepreneurs in particular, it's the same social rights as the employees. In the case of the form field, nothing happens there either. I'm sorry. So to the net pay scheme. The left is sure that there is a system that stands for fall. Several countries are now wondering whether to continue with the net pay scheme. I am absolutely sure it is falling, and we in the left are so tough that we are the first to go out and say that it is going to be wrong to subsidize bartenders on the Danish boat, among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e850	In my main post, I focused on the financial crisis, and on, among other things. as regards the pressure on wages and the pressure on professional rights. I mentioned the Right Party and the Advance Party in particular, and that's because they have the most – I was saying radical, but there's going to be a bit of a wrong concept in this context – the extreme proposals, which will change Norway the most. The left has intermittently cast itself on some of these proposals. This applies both in relation to the property tax and the inheritance tax, and not least in relation to the question of professional rights. I was very surprised when the Left signed with the Right and the Advance Party in relation to being opposed to offensive measures against social dumping, because this prevents competition on wages. Then my question is, who is going to get a lower salary, because that must be the purpose, if you are going to have a wage competition? Are they cleaners, are they in the construction industry, are they the maids?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e857	I almost don't know where to start. When I hear No Marte Thorkildsen talking, I am proud of Left's policy. She's pulling out the areas that I'm a little proud of. In the case of bets on e.g. business, I'm proud that we have a good policy. When it comes to investing in the environment, we have a good policy that I wish SV could follow up more closely. I am very surprised at the policy that SV is pursuing in this respect, for example. lack of commitment to public transport. We want to increase the reward scheme in the largest cities. We want to bet more on the railway. None of these things follow No Marte Thorkildsen up, and it's very disappointing. We have several proposals here in the Chamber that I am sure the representative would like to support, but cannot, because she is in a government that is not offensive in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e865	I don't think that was an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e870	The railway network is in poor condition; drivers have long told of all the slow-moving sections; it has been a long-hauling, and rail passage, overhead contact lines and signalling systems need upgrading. During Bondevik II, a number of railway company professionals were dismissed, key personnel to ensure the upgrading of this very thing. The Government grants in revised terms the money to the Railway Agency that the Railway Agency says they can use. I'm very pleased with that priority. But then the left comes with plus 665 million. in addition to the government's proposal. When you know the facts, this isn't very reliable. I would like to ask a question, where the Left can correct the impression: Does the Left's fiscally weak maritime criticism of the deterioration that occurred when the Railway Agency dismissed key personnel under the Bondevik II regime, and which would now have been there to refurbish the network?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e877	As the representative Syversen also said, I think this case has several aspects, and it revealed the Riksrevision. We sat with the Minister of Transport then, that's absolutely right. The railroad company wanted what the Minister of Transport did. I have good knowledge of that. But it's clear that there's been more money, we have more money to spend. That's why Left spends that money on strengthening the railways, on strengthening public transport. As to the fact that there is no competence and people out there – clearly that's it. There are people out there who are ready to do a job if you had spent more money. There are also people abroad, and you can get expertise abroad. But this government won't, and I'm sorry, because it's going a lot slower than it could have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e882	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e885	I want to start my article with a small time frame. This is based on the fact that I was at the end of seventh grade at Fagerlund School in Brumunddal last Monday. That time picture takes me back to a similar location at Stavsjö in 1964. The similarity is kind of two that belong to the young generation on the way out in life. At the same time, there's a big difference, and that's that we who went out of high school in 1964 had a lot easier, the choices were simpler. The future was in many ways safer, not least because those who did not choose to go to school had a job. They could go directly to work. In 2010, this image is more complex, it's more complicated. The choice that the new generations are facing is more complicated. The future is more uncertain than it was in 1964. When I start there, it's because it's our generation's responsibility to make sure that the uncertainty that the new generations have gets less. That is why it is so important that we today meet the climate challenges, that we today meet the economic challenges, that we are able to take care of what I have spent a lot of time in the last year – the generation contract. We now see that more than every five young people in Europe are out of work. They're outside the education system. Every other Spanish youth is unemployed. 100 years ago — without comparison — we swept away the young generations on the battlefields in Europe. We have to make sure that today we do not waste the generations of young people by not being allowed to use their skills and forces in the workplace to build the future. This is the biggest challenge not only Norway, but Europe is ahead of the next few years. In addition, we are facing a new kind of revolution because the population composition in Norway and in Europe will change dramatically over the next few years. The number of older people in the population has never been as high as it is going to be in a few years. We see birth rates in Europe down to 1.1–1.2. In Norway, the birth rate is 1.9. Why is it so important? Well, because low birth rates do something about the distribution between young and old in the population. It's an interesting question to ask: why have we done this in Norway? Not only do we have physiological explanations, but it is because we have deliberately invested in the future labour force, through the development of kindergartens, through the development of schemes that will enable the parental regeneration both to give birth and to be in working life. That's why one of the most important jobs we're going to do in the future is to take care of, develop and process the workforce. Unfortunately, Norway's history of hydropower, oil and natural resources is history. But the history of Norway is primarily the history of labour, the fact that we have managed to use the labour force to develop the world's best country to live in and to develop the Norwegian welfare state. Knowledge is the driving force behind change. That's what's going to build for the future. It is investing in own labour, and not just through community solutions – school, research, education. For an enterprise, investing in labour becomes at least as important as investing in machinery and other production equipment because the current and future labour force is the company's main resource. We're in a privileged situation. It's just looking around in Europe. But it's important that we don't take this for granted. It's important that we don't lean back, because then we can quickly get caught up in reality. As I said, the oil is important. It has given us the opportunity to build one of the world's best technological industries. But what we saw during the financial crisis is how important the varied industrial structure is for Norwegian production life and for Norwegian future. We cannot prevent international crises from taking place in Norway, because we have an open, extroverted economy, and we, like many other countries, are embedded in the global economy. The most important thing we can do is to keep order in our own economy and make sure that we don't seas impose typical crises. That is why the rule of action is important. That's why it's important that we use more in bad times and less in good times. That's why it's important that we get back to the 4 pst. path as fast as it can be done. Income policy is important. The front line is important in income policy. The workshop agreement, which is over 100 years old, has been an important building block for Norwegian welfare. So far, the year’s income statement is carried out within a responsible framework, but it becomes more demanding in the years to come, precisely because the cost growth in Europe is going to decline, precisely because the wage growth in Europe and in the countries with which we compete most will be low for a long time to come. Almost 70 pst. exports from mainland Norway to Europe. And then we can also ask ourselves the question: have the way we've dealt with the Norwegian economy, worked? Yeah, it's been working. It's just looking at the results over the last few years. If we look at the growth of the mainland economy, we're above the OECD average in the last 15 years. It is clearly higher than in the euro area. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and the highest level of professional participation. It's noticed abroad. We have high productivity growth and high conversion capacity in the Norwegian economy. But we also need to deal with this in the future. That's the main task of the government and of the Storting. Growth is good, but distribution is equally important. It was about when a built the Norwegian welfare model was to facilitate the large majority. Now it's all about facilitating a small minority. It is therefore essential that as many as possible have work, that as many people as possible participate in the labour market, that we have strong Community solutions that can provide security for the individual. Then it's important that we have both a continuous and a long-term distribution. We will face many and difficult challenges and choices in the future. One of the most demanding is the relationship between, on the one hand, continuing growth and high private wealth and, on the other, getting enough resources to build on and secure the common well-being. This is a cross-point that is not only demanding and challenging for the state budget and the state economy, this is turning into the municipal sector: in a few years we will have a pensioner generation – my generation – that is both richer than any other generation of pensioners in the past, and that may also be at least as demanding as the one that is there today, and it is important that we look at this balance between private wealth and common well-being. Another important choice is how clear we are in the priority of Community resources — more services, more security — in other words, that we get the most out of the crowns we spend on public welfare and common services. Then we – and that is simply – have to take care of what has worked. As former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse said, there is no need to repair what works. We have to make sure that what works still works. Our legacy is that the next generation should have at least as great opportunities as our generation, that we have no degradation of opportunities and foundations, that we have taken care of the economy, and that we have taken care of the environment and our common climate. Finally, one day a question comes up: what have you done, what has your life been used for? It's a question that comes from the next generation. If we can then answer that we took care that the possibilities of our descendants were at least as good as ours, and we survived the inheritance in good condition, we have made the right political choices today. Then we have thought of long-term economic policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e921	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e924	There was a lot of talk in the Council of State that many people can join. In many ways, the Minister of Finance has taken a look, not only at what we are discussing today, which is the formally revised budget, but also at what is to come. That's what I want to focus on in my question. There are probably a lot of expectations – not necessarily positive – of the budget that comes to the harvest and that I assume the Minister of Finance is working on these days. It has been announced that there are a number of areas where restrictions are most likely to be applied. Many may have to lower their expectations to increased well-being from the standpoint of this government. Then my question is, what about focusing on cutting red tape? What about focusing on the use of money in state agencies and agencies? Is it true that in the work you are doing now, and in the budget, the focus is quite clearly that not only are the people who are going to notice this, but that if you are going to get the money down, you also have to have a critical look at the money spent? Will we experience a single state budget that, in the budget coming to the harvest, will receive less money next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e931	As far as the budget is concerned, a person should wait and see. In the meantime, we might have a joint responsibility to subdue our expectations a little bit – it was a advice to the representative of Leirstein. As I said in my post, it is important that we go through public spending, it should just be missing. The legitimacy of the strong community is based on the fact that we use the money in a good way, so that we get as much services as possible and as much in common as possible out of the heads we use. We'll go critically through the use of money in the public sector, and then we'll see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e938	I share the basic optimism that I noted in the Minister of Finance's contributions. We in Norway have a good starting point for building the knowledge society. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance recognises the challenges we are now facing, not least in terms of private business and competitive industry. But it's a little bit from the Minister of Finance's analysis to what the government is actually doing. The first budget presented by Minister of Finance Johnsen, last autumn, meant increased use of oil money. In the revised national budget, the use of oil money has decreased due to higher dividends and tax revenues, but the budget has become more expansive than the budget presented last autumn. My question is whether the Minister of Finance does not see that the job becomes more difficult for the government in 2011, when expenditure growth has not been brought down in the budget in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e945	Well, 2011 is going to be demanding. But I really think it's good that one has managed to reduce the distance to the 4 pst. path by 19 billion. kr, by allowing the increased revenue to be included in the balance sheet, while reducing expenditure. So it's true, if you look at the tightness from 2009 to 2010, isolated, that there's less rigour in 2010. But if you see 2009 and 2010 as a whole, in the two years, there's a tightening of 3⁄4 pst. The reason why it is slightly higher in 2010 is that there was a larger reduction in oil money consumption in 2009 than in 2010. But the two years together show that the budget is tighter than what one had previously assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e952	I was challenged in my line change and brought praise to the government. There's a lot of evidence that I should use the quota of praise now – it'll probably be a little less of that than the day. Then we'll see if I succeed. We on the opposition's side have not got that much – we'll say – in terms of the revised budget and the influence of the majority. However, we have agreed that indicators for social development are an important topic. Man does not live by bread alone; well-being is more than crowns and ears. The Committee stands together to ask the government to develop indicators, in addition to GDP, which say something about social development. My question to the Council of State is: In the light of the financial crisis we have had, does he think it is even more correct and important to develop such indicators?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e960	I am very pleased that the Committee has a common position in this area. We have gradually developed sustainable development indicators. I also believe it is important to develop good indicators or targets on how quality of life develops. It's two sides of a society, one is economic prosperity, the other is somehow the quality of human life. I think it is important that a broader perspective of economic policy should also include such things. We in Norway have reached a level of economic prosperity, which makes life-quality values increasingly available in human life — and should have an ever greater place in the lives of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e967	The left is concerned with value creation and enterprises. When you travel around, there's one thing they have a lot of focus on, and that's the form field. So, as we're doing now, Norwegian companies use 54 billion each year. kr on reporting, imposed by the public. The government has not been able to reduce this by more than 0.5 pst. in the last three years. The left has suggested something here in this room – a rule board according to Swedish model – but of course it was voted down, like everything else. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, what is he going to do with this? Because there's a lot of money, and there's a lot of concern out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e972	I think what the representative Tenden is dealing with is both correct and sensible. We have both large and small enterprises in this country, and it is clear that for many small enterprises this is often a heavy burden. At the same time, of course, it must also be weighed against the control considerations of the authorities. To mention a few examples, what has happened in the tax haven has made everyday life much easier for many. Altin is in many ways successful, and we're discussing auditing and other things. So this is an area that will also have a high priority for the government in the future – not only for the finance minister, but also for other government councils – because if we manage to find a good balance between simplicity and control, we may have found one of the golden keys in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e977	I want to follow up the question to Ulf Leirstein, because I feel that he received an answer that I have heard before. The budget has been reduced over a long period of time, and so is the case now. But nothing is happening in one area, and it is about improving the efficiency of bureaucracy. In Norway, we have a bureaucracy that can drive a population that is far, far larger than the Norwegian one. In a previous response to me, and now to Ulf Leirstein, on efficiency improvement, the Council of State replied that the efficiency of public bureaucracy was something that was going on all along, and that it was done. When we read in the previous state budget – and in revised, for that matter – we cannot see much about it. Budgets are increasing steadily, year after year, to the operation of red tape. How does this harmonize with saying that you still have an improvement in efficiency? In a private enterprise, this would have been seen as a reduction in the cost of red tape. Can we see a change in this, when will an improvement in efficiency be achieved in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e986	There's nothing wrong with repeating good answers – it's really something you can do until the answers are correct. The debate on bureaucracy is, to a large extent, an important debate, but what we need to take care of is that we do not draw the same lines between bureaucracy and public efforts, because if we look at the growth in the number of public employees in recent years, they have come in the sectors that have a high priority in this room: health care, kindergartens and education. But when that's said, it's clear that there's something to pick up here. For the sake of the legitimacy of the tax system and of the public sector, it is important for the representative to say that people feel that they get what they have paid for. This means that going through the use of money in public agencies is an important part of this government's work in the future. And then we'll see – as I said in the previous answer – how it materializes in the budgets ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e993	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e996	The man-made warming of our common earth threatens our entire existence. The overwhelming majority of scientists and scientists are in agreement here. There's global warming, and it's created by us humans. This is the theory, but we also see it with the naked eye. The ice around the poles melts, the sea and the global average temperature rises, and extreme weather leads to deadly floods and droughts. So we have no choice, we have to make the right choices for the future today. We have to act, and we have to act now. In order to achieve the target of a maximum temperature increase of two degrees, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that global emissions need to be reduced by between 50 and 85 pst. by 2050. Carbon capture and storage have great potential as a contribution to greenhouse gas emissions cuts. In Norway, we already have two of the world’s four largest carbon capture plants separating and storing CO2 from natural gas, namely Sleipner and Snow White. Norway’s leading role in carbon capture and storage is important internationally, for we know that the significant share of global CO2 emissions is linked to large energy and industrial installations. One of the world’s largest industrial point emissions of the CO2, Secunda plant in South Africa, emits about 60 million. tonnes of CO2 in the year. It alone is more than the total Norwegian emissions. The owners of this facility, Sasol, have now joined the technology center in Mongstad. This shows that the technology we are doing in Norway is relevant, even beyond our own borders. CO2 management could contribute to large reductions in emissions from such sources as this. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has estimated that this could account for up to half of emissions cuts in this century. When Statoil applied for a concession for thermal power plants in Mongstad, the government chose to demand a clean-up of CO2, as we said in Soria Moria that we would do when it came to new gas power plants. The full-scale cleaning deadline was set for 2014 for technology to be developed and made usable. The state went financially and took risks in the project. The implementation agreement and the emissions permit must therefore also be viewed in a coherent way, for these two together form the starting point for the establishment of full scale CO2 management. The emissions permit shall respect pollution conditions. It is not static and may be modified if the framework conditions or other conditions so warrant without any breach of the permit. A modified propulsion plan means that changes to the permit must be applied for in the normal way. For us in the Workers' Party, Mongstad is not just about getting emission reductions from the Mongstad plant. Although it is very important to bring down emissions from Mongstad, the most important thing in a global context is to develop the technology that makes this possible elsewhere in the world. In St. prp. No 49 for 2006-2007, cooperation on CO2 management was reported in Mongstad. With varying degrees of enthusiasm, all the lots finally settled behind the proposition. Even then, realism in the deadline for full-scale cleaning was a theme. In the debate on 24 May 2007, the Council of State of the European Communities emphasised that things could arise along the way, for this was a large and complicated project. With St.prp. No 38 for 2008-2009 on a technology centre for CO2 management in Mongstad, the project took an important step in the right direction. Norway has positioned itself in the field of carbon capture and storage. The project is groundbreaking by the fact that it is the first of its kind in the world, in terms of both size and technology. Starting with St.prp. No 67 for 2008-2009, the government has provided information on the work on the planning and preparation of full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad in the context of the budgetary proposals. When submitting a case to the Government, the Government shall provide all information necessary to enable the Grand Duchy to deal with the matter properly. The Workers' Party considers that the information provided by the Government to the Storting has provided a sound basis for the budgetary decisions taken and notes that the majority of the Storing is of the same opinion. The size of the budget has dealt with planning and preparation in several budgetary procedures, and we have allocated money to this. In this context, progress and costs have been a topic. Now when the opposition tries to create the impression that something has happened in the deepest secret, in hiding from the Storting, it falls on its own unreasonableness. In November 2009, Stortinget was briefed on the complexity of the project and the need for new solutions, and that the Ministry would come back to the outcome of ongoing planning and preparation work. In the revised budget last year, Stortinget was informed about the scope and implementation of the planning and preparation work. A comprehensive technical basis for further negotiations with Statoil on the implementation of full scale CO2 cleaning was to be established. The next time the Stortinget dealt with the full-scale cleaning of Mongstad was in connection with the state budget for 2010. The budget proposal sets out the status of the planning work. Gassnova has made a major effort to assess options for development. It was only March 22nd in the year Gassnova went from saying that this was difficult to clearly recommend to the Government to push on the schedule. There is a great difference between pointing to challenges related to a timetable and clearly saying that this cannot be done. That the government spends a few weeks, with Easter in between, to review this clear recommendation, I believe is no more than fair and reasonable. Full scale CO2 cleaning is demanding. Our goal of realizing this by 2014 was very ambitious. It has been said all along that it was. Therefore, I believe that the government has behaved neatly and correctly and should be praised for trying to achieve the original objective as long as it was allowed to do so. It shows that the government has ambitions. Now, when we have to bite the sour apple and change the timing of the investment decisions, it happens in the light of a comprehensive review of reports and investigations. It's always easy to criticize ambitious goals in retrospect if they're not achieved, but we in the Workers' Party are ambitious and impatient. We don't want to pursue politics based on the principle that the one without ambitions never disappoints either. I have to say I was quite surprised when I saw that the Christian People's Party was surprised at the health risk. As regards the health risks associated with the use of amines, the theme of the Statoil Master Plan in January 2009 was a public document dedicated to this. At the same time, a joint committee at the Innst said. S. No 206 for 2008-2009: ‘The Committee has noted some uncertainties regarding health aspects of the use of amine purification technology. The Committee draws attention, inter alia, to warnings that amines released into the air could be harmful to health at higher doses. The Committee assumes that the health aspects of technology choices are subject to careful research and that the results are included in the evaluation reports.’;» So this was said by a joint committee in April 2009. The opposition is now united in its criticism of the government in the attitude we have to deal with. But criticism, and the past, is also the only thing they stand together about. With regard to the future and the solutions to the climate, the opposition cracks as much as they do in economic policy. The Christian People's Party and the Left are still standing at their point of view that cleaning should be in place before the start of the heat plant – a position, which if they were given control, would have led us to have no Mongstad project to discuss. The Right Party and the Advance Party continue to believe that the requirement for purification is strange and undesirable. If these parties had a majority, we would be back to the time before 2005 without heat plants in Mongstad, without a CO2 clean-up project and without any practical solutions for emissions. In the government parties, we are proud that we have managed to launch a groundbreaking project that can help solve the really big problems in the world today. Climate and energy challenges require good carbon capture and storage solutions. The Mongstad project will contribute to this. We're going to reduce our emissions internationally by 50-85 pst. Then it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1088	I've been following the Mongstad case since it was launched for Stortinget four years ago. It was a matter of lunar landing, rather than a matter that ends up being lunar. It's a matter where the government's prestige and symbolic dates took control of good project management and respect for the nation's national assembly. The result is a highly fragmented collapse, where the majority are deeply satisfied with the status quo, while the opposition promotes distrust against the Council of State. The position believes everything has been handled correctly in the matter. The size has been provided with the necessary information at the right time, the deferrals are unproblematic. The same is true of the excess costs. The opposition's criticism is referred to as theater and games. In today's newspaper, the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party says that Riis-Johansen could not do anything else. It is my opinion as rapporteur that the position should be further discussed in the debate. On the other hand, an overall opposition has a different view, and I want to be an opposition politician in the rest of my speech. The matter is not about being for or against the project, although the position is increasing to give it the impression. It is about criticism of the management of a project with significant cost exceedances, delays and, in particular, a breach of the information obligation. The government promised full-scale CO2 cleaning in 2014. It established it in the emissions permit, and until 1 May considered this to be realistic. Then suddenly there was a need for more time because of so-called new reports. The truth is, the government would rather leave its policy at this point in time. It even admitted Riis-Johansen to the hearing. He said 30 April 2010 was the date when the government chose a new strategy. Until that date, the government has had the approach of building full-scale cleaning by 2014, regardless of whether you gained much or little experience from the test facility. After 30 April, a wait for the test centre shall be provided with a better full-scale facility. It is okay to change the political approach, and in this case I support the government's choice, because it is the same Progress Party that has been calling for for four years. But it is not clear when one refuses to admit that one is turning around politically, and instead presents the matter as if there has been new information and that the situation is changing because of things beyond one's control. This is about policy change, not new information. In today's Evening Post, this reversal operation is confirmed. Gassnova wrote in a letter from a reader that they asked on 22 March to have more time to plan and run the test facility. It obviously meets the government. That is good, but there is no doubt a new political approach from the government regarding the role of the test facility. More humility from the government's side because it's those who change politics, had saved them too much trouble. This is a matter of long history. It began three government councils ago in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In 2006 there was a need for a gas power plant in Mongstad. There was a troubling political debate in the government parties, because the government initially demanded cleaning at start-up. We should remember that the government said that it was possible to clean Kårstø in 2009 – they have fixed it in the Soria Moria statement – and then cleaning Mongstad in 2010 should be unproblematic, if they believed in their own promises. If they didn't believe in the promises, you get the debate you get. You can't have cleaning from day one, because you know it's unrealistic, even if they require it elsewhere. The debate in SV was very hot. The compromise that came out was: build gas power plants now, postpone clean-up until 2014. Thus, 2014 is part of the emissions permit. So it's not just an ambition the government has had, but it's a requirement. Minister for the Environment Solheim is now apologizing that we cannot adopt the future. But that was exactly what the government did in 2006 in this matter. However, future decisions are not easy in terms of technology development. So the government didn't have a moon landing project like that from the Soria Moria Declaration. It became a necessity of a political compromise. That is why the Prime Minister, when he is as late as he is in Political Quarter today, says that the Progress Party and the Right have been against the project from the start because we made a proposal in 2006 to allow gas power stations with the same rules as in the EU. In fact, when this proposal from the Right and the Advance Party was promoted, there was no technology project in Mongstad. In 2007, there was a unanimous growth that supported the project – unanimously – both in the construction of test centres and in the ambitions for clean-up in 2014. The disagreement was not about having ambitions. The disagreement was whether one should make demands already in 2007 on full-scale cleaning in 2014. That's what the government did, and it's created today's problem. In 2009, the test centre decision was taken on 7 May here in Stortinget. The price tag was supposed to be 5,3 billion. kr. State Council Riis-Johansen said in the debate that experience should be used from the testing centre to full-scale investment, but at the same time the government parties insisted that purification should take place in 2014. The red-green explicitly struck it in all the posts they held. It was not appropriate to postpone cleaning, said the representative of the SV Thorkildsen. It was not appropriate to postpone cleaning, said the representative Nordtun from the Workers' Party. So did the representative Sande from the Central Party. However, just a few weeks later, Gassnova concluded in a report of 27 May that one would not gain in service experience from the test facility with the propulsion plan provided by the government. This, however, never informed the government about the Storting in retrospect. But it was a prerequisite for the debate by the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen. So on 1 May he gets information that the project will be postponed to 2018 or later. The Prime Minister's blog shows that the price tag has now been 10 billion. kr. 4 billion is to be used. kr for the design of a full-scale installation that no one knows what will consist of. There are many consultants who will work without knowledge of the final solution. The reasons given by the government are that new reports have been made with new technical challenges. Basically, there's an auspicious explanation, but something tells us that we've been following the project for four years. What new reports are they about? What new technical challenges? The Prime Minister's explanations in Stortinget's Question Time on 5 May were not conclusive. We have later specified which reports he referred to. It's Mongstad Master Plan and the Gassnova reports. The problem for the government is that these reports are not new. Master Plan Mongstad is from 12 February 2009. When it was promoted, the government used the plan as a support for the project. In today's news 18 the same evening as it was presented, I was in debate with the Environment Minister Solheim. He rejected the postponement as a result of this report. The price of 25 billion. kr was not deterrent, and given the future of the planet, we could not postpone the project. In the March 11th 2009 Question Time, the Minister of Energy used the report to prove that technology is available, we have no time to lose. On the other hand, the same report is now being used to prove that the project has to be postponed. This is a somewhat credible view of a report. The Prime Minister and the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, said that Master Plan Mongstad shows that the project is demanding. Yes, if one is to use the master plan in this debate first, one should take care of everything that stands there. On page 109 it says that with the arrangement that is in place, 2018 is the realistic timetable. It's not just demanding. They require a postponement. One can't just quote the lines a likes from such a report. One has to take the whole thing. But the postponement so strongly denied the government. In 2014, the Stortinget discussed this on all occasions, even after the master plan was presented. So they've seen the report, but they haven't taken it in. The new technical challenges were discussed by the Prime Minister. In the VG we got an overview. Argument 1: never built installations on such a scale. Argument 2: It shall be based on a refinery that has been produced. Argument 3: Amine technology has health effects, e.g. cancer risk. But are these new arguments? No, we knew all of this when the Stortinget decided on the test centre in 2009. It has been obvious to everyone that the project is demanding, but this has not been a factor on which the government has assumed that the project had to be postponed – not until now, suddenly. But the factors have been present, it's just the government that is now changing the conclusion. Master Plan Mongstad was not interpreted by the government as a'showstopper' until they suddenly needed an argument to postpone the project. Then the next question is, Has Gassnova produced new reports that say things that are different from what is in the master plan? We've been trying to dig in these reports. We now know that there are probably at least five pieces. Everyone was stamped secret by the government. Why? The government claims that it is for business reasons. I believe that a significant proportion of this is about political convenience. Eirin Kristin Sund stated in Political Quarter on 1 June that all the reports are available. It's a positive error. Until recently, they are excluded from the public and exclude the opposition. Marianne Marthinsen stated in News of the Day 18 on 4 June that the reports from Gassnova came on an ongoing basis, so we could be kept informed if we could only bother to read them. So she's not saying they weren't available for the Storting. But I trusted the government to pass on the content that was of political interest. Now we know that it hasn't. Three of the five reports have been received by the Committee. It concerns the report of 15 April, 27 May and 2 October. They're partly heavily wired, so it's a little uncertain what kind of information is there. But it's important here to see that it's e.g. on 2 October, the start-up phase 1 full-scale clean-up phase 3rd quarter 2015. So you knew that on October 2. The January 2009 report does not allow us to access it. The government has confirmed that. The report of 22 March 2010, which is therefore the basis for decision-making, does not allow us to access it either. However, in yesterday's Day's revision, Helga Pedersen claimed that the opposition had gained transparency in the March 2010 decision-making documents. It's a positive error. Since 2007, Gassnova has warned against having two CO2 clean-up projects at the same time, ergo recommends scrapping Kårstø or scraping Mongstad. The Stortinget has never been informed of that. There has been no document, but Gassnova writes in the October report that they have informed the government about this. The Stortingen has therefore granted money for a Kårstø project which Gassnova believes should not be carried out at this time. We've spent over 500 million. kr on the project, which is currently on ice but has not been scrapped. Gassnova has since April 2009 confirmed the warnings from Masterplan Mongstad, which postpones full scale cleaning by 1 to 5 years. Gassnova must admit that this is not just a demanding project, but it is a project that will not keep the deadline. In the April 15 report, there is a timeline that suggests the third quarter of 2015 to start clean-up. With regard to the three different scenarios for short-term clean-up, one concludes that none of them will be able to comply with the emissions permit. This should have been known to the Council of State when the Stortinget decided on the test centre on 7 May 2009, but this uncertainty was not communicated, on the contrary: the red-greens were obfuscated that they were guarantors of cleaning in 2014. When Bergen’s Official Journal had had a first page five days earlier where it said that cleaning could be postponed until 2018, the red-greens strongly denied that this could be the case. Ergo: they have given guarantees that cannot be met today. The 27th May report, which is thus a Gassnova recommendation report – it says ‘recommendation’ on the front page – recommends a stepwise clean-up, so don’t go full-scale from day one. They break the deadline in the emissions permit, and large cost increases have been suggested. The government got this knowledge in June. It was time to include this in the budget, and good time to inform the Storting explicitly before that, considering that a decision had been made on 7 May. But it wasn't. The only thing we can read in Prop. 1 S, which came in October 2009, is that Gassnova among others assesses step-by-step cleaning. There is no indication that one is on a collision course with deadlines and on an emission permit collision course and that there are significant increases in costs. All the information given was given under the skin that everything is under control, it is demanding, yes, but nothing indicates that things were broken. On 2 October – before the state budget was presented – a new Gassnova report was presented. It is very clear, as I have already mentioned, that cleaning is only possible in the third quarter of 2015. In fact, the government promoted a new additional proposition from the Ministry of Oil and Energy in mid-November. Mongstad is mentioned, but this information is not included, despite the obvious fact that it has come to her government. On the other hand, journalists can inform about this in the media. Today's Business Day has an interview with State Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen and Bjørn-Erik Haugan from Gassnova on 19 October 2009. Haugan clearly communicates a warning about a postponement of the project until 2015–2016. I, the undersigned, challenged the Minister for Energy on precisely this in a written question on 23 December 2009. The response of the Council of State, which came on 8 January 2010, does not mention any delay challenges or exceedances of costs. My claim is therefore that the government has received clear warnings about delays and cost increases, but it has withheld it from Stortinget. Therefore, we can conclude that the government has broken its information obligation towards Stortinget, and that is the basis for the mistrust proposal. It is not about being in favour of or against the Mongstad project, but about what information Stortinget has received in this matter. I respect that the government needs time to find compromise solutions internally. One knows that the distance between the Workers' Party and SV in this type of case is much larger than it is between other parties in the Stortinget. I respect that they need time. But the fact that one needs time to take the strategic decisions a take, is no excuse to hold back information from the rest of the Storting. The size requires the relevant information when it is available in a clear form. It did so in these reports. The fact that the government needs time to stockpile its legs internally is their problem. It should not be the Biggest problem, but it has now been – and therefore this mistrust proposal. I consider the reason why information was withheld, simply to be that the government could not tolerate a moon landing debate in the election campaign, or just after the election, when one was in government negotiations. Internal citizenship in the government, especially with regard to the problem of this case for SV, is thus more important than informing the Storting properly. We have been proved that in the reports available. The government insists that we have got the right information at the right time. In that case, it is not related to the documentation available. It's going to be a parrot talk to try to keep the opposition's criticism at a distance, but it's no substance. The position claims that the Committee’s hearing clarified all the issues. It is also completely wrong. There are more questions now than it was before the hearing took place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1163	On 5 May 2010, Stortinget was informed that cleaning of the gas power plant at Mongstad had been suspended, initially until 2018. This was new information to the Stortinget, but it was old for the government. It is the government’s duty to provide relevant factual information to the Storting, to disclose whether uncertainties are involved and to present serious professional counter-conceptions on the matter even if they are contrary to the government’s proposal. After the Committee on Energy and the Environment has reviewed the matter over the past few weeks, it is clear that the Government has failed to inform the Stortinget of significant professional counter-representations presented in reports to the Ministry of Oil and Energy dated 15 April 2009, 27 May 2009 and 2 October 2009. The reports are unique in the evaluation of the schedules of the project. All reports show that the target of cleaning Mongstad in 2014 is not realistic. This assessment and recommendation is as clear, if not clearer, in the report dated 15 April 2009, the so-called interconnection report, as in the subsequent reports. The interconnection report shows that rapid realisation of the clean-up project is only possible by 2015-2016, but points out at the same time that rapid realisation will increase project risk, increase costs and limit the technological development impact. This would conflict with the assumptions made by Stortinget for the clean-up project. It will also be a very limited learning effect from the test centre at Mongstad. It is therefore clear from the report that it would be very risky to choose rapid clean-up, a model that cannot be realised by 2014, as the Council of State pointed out to Stortinget. The report also shows that the health risk of amine emissions will be time-critical for the project and that as of 15 April 2009 it is unclear. Generally three years of basic research is required to clarify cancer hazards for this type of emissions. Statoil and Gassnova estimate that this can be done in two years. It also appears that the technology qualification process will take between six and seven and a half years from October 2009. This is a significant indication in relation to the government’s plan for clean-up in 2014. As an aggressive timetable, defined as a realisation in 2015-2016, will be difficult and will cause significant disadvantages and increased risk, alternative time courses have also been described where completion will be either between 2017 and 2020 or after 2020. The interconnection report shows that both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment were continuously informed of the work on the report and its conclusion. This clearly conflicts with the impression given by the Minister for the Environment in the Committee's hearing on the matter. It is clear to the right that the factual information and assessments presented in the interconnection report are serious, professional counter-conceptions that the Stortinget should have been informed of, and find it highly critical that this did not happen. Instead of informing the Storting about the significant uncertainty raised by the government’s promise to clean up by 2014, the State Council elected Terje Riis-Johansen to stand firm on the 2014 target during the debate on the testing centre at Mongstad on 7 May 2009, only three weeks after he was presented for the interconnection report. The Council of State had this information during the debate. The size did not have it – on the contrary. Four times in the course of the debate, the Council of State repeated that the government was at the 2014 target. In its last response, the Council of State presented a reservation that if the 2014 target could not be met, it was not due to a lack of political will but to practical problems. At that time, the Council of State was very familiar with the conclusions of the interconnection report and thus had information on changing assumptions and significant practical challenges in the Mongstad project. Yet he chose to keep the information away from Stortinget. Right-wing believes this is highly critical. During the debate on 7 May, questions were also raised as to whether the delays in the construction of the test centre would lead to delays in the realization of the full-scale cleaning of Mongstad. At this point it was known that the test centre would be delayed for two years, despite the fact that the Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed in the Questionnaire on 5 May this year that the test centre is on track. So it's not. The State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen concluded on 7 May 2009 that the delays would not affect the full-scale cleaning schedule and that, of course, the learning of the test centre in the construction of full-scale sewage treatment plants would benefit. This is also in contradiction with the Technical Council of State Councils received Riis-Johansen in the interconnection report, where it appears that the learning effect of TCM would be very limited by an aggressive timetable. Nor did Riis-Johansen find it too good to share this information with the Storting during the debate, nor during the committee's consideration of the landfill proposal on the Mongstad test centre. In the opinion delivered on 28 April 2009, a unanimous committee stated that: ‘The Committee therefore considers it important that testing and evaluation of TCM technologies be carried out in a thorough and verifiable manner, so that full-scale CO2 clean-up facilities can be realised based on the best possible knowledge of the strengths, weaknesses, costs, etc. of available technologies. The Committee considers that the testing work at TCM is very relevant in relation to the construction of full-scale CO2 cleaning in Mongstad and assumes that evaluations from TCM technology tests are included in the investment decision for a full-scale CO2 cleaning plant in Mongstad.’;» An overall Energy and Environment Committee thus laid down full-scale cleaning conditions that were contrary to the professional advice received by the State Council, without the Council of State informing the Committee that this was the case. On the right, this is highly critical. The Gassnova report dated 27 May underlines the lack of experience from the test centre. Full scale sewage treatment plants must be built with little or no TCM experience. However, the Council of State is right when it points out at the hearing that there will be some learning from the TCM in any case, but it does not exclude that the technical recommendations are clearly contrary to the Committee's assumptions. The Gassnova report of 27 May states that it will be possible to clean one gas turbine by 2014-2015. However, the Government’s reply to the Committee dated 1 June 2010 specifies that the investment decision is to be accelerated until 2011. This means that the health risk of amine emissions is unlikely to be adequately addressed before initiation, but it also implies a sufficient confirmation that the two-year construction time of the investment decision is unrealistic. Gassnova’s report dated 2 October 2009 also concludes that a sewage treatment plant can be in place at the earliest from the third quarter of 2015, given that the amines were approved by the second quarter of 2012. The three reports dated 15 April, 27 May and 2 October all point in the same direction. It is difficult to draw conclusions other than that full-scale clean-up in 2014 is unrealistic. Instead of informing the Storting in connection with the treatment of the landfill proposal about the test centre or the state budget for 2010, the government chose to hold back this information on Norway’s largest industrial and climate project in recent times, a project in which the government has invested significant political performance. It was not informed that the assumptions for the project had changed significantly – contrary to Stortingen’s assumptions – even though the Council of State had been informed of this as early as April 2009. The uncertainty raised by the government’s commitment to clean up in 2014 was not disclosed. The significant health risk associated with the release of amines into air by the professional community was not informed and needs to be clarified before a full scale sewage treatment plant can be built. These are not internal political considerations that can be defended by the Storting. This is professional information needed by the Storting in order to control the government and to take decisions on the correct basis. The Council of State writes in a letter to the Right and Left wholesalers dated 17 June 2010 that: «after each new information has been provided by the planning and preparation work with full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad, information has normally been provided to the Stortinget which the Government considers important for the handling of the case». It should be unnecessary to remind the Council of State that it is not the government that assesses what information the Storting needs to deal with the case, but that the Storting itself assesses what information is relevant when all facts and relevant circumstances are known. In that letter, the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen shows no sign of self-criticism in handling the case. The Council of State appears to be satisfied with the way in which he manages the disclosure obligation towards Stortinget, and he will continue to interpret the disclosure obligation as he has done in this case. The Right notes that the Council of State has breached the information obligation towards the Storting and that the Council of State does not have any ability or willingness to take the matter seriously. We must therefore recognise that we no longer have confidence in the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1244	On the basis of the government’s decision to follow Gassnova’s recommendations of 22 March this year on a modified period of full-scale clean-up at Mongstad, the parts of the revised national budget dealing with Mongstad were delivered to the Energy and Environment Committee for treatment. It was decided here to initiate consultations on the matter, which the opposition also had a strong wish for. During the hearing, it was clear that Statoil and Gassnova worked until March of this year according to the initial timetable, with an investment decision target in 2012. Already here the opposition's arguments start to face problems. This is what the Director of Gassnova said clearly on 22 March this year. Since February last year, in Statoil's master plan to which the Stortinget has had access, it has been clear that this timetable is demanding and poses challenges. So this is not new information, as parts of the opposition now claim, and the main proof of this is the opposition's own numerous statements in the last year, which I'm sure we'll be given a thorough explanation in the course of the debate. An overall opposition claimed at committee hearing that the information obligation of the Storting has been breached. Then it is with wonder that I read in comments and statements throughout last year, both to the press and here in the Stortinget, that the opposition parties repeatedly last year thought they had received information that would allow one to risk a delay in Mongstad. Let me just repeat it: last year the opposition believed that there was information available that Mongstad could be delayed. Then the criticism of the red-greens was that we were too ambitious to stick to our schedule, as Gassnova also did. It did, as the government knows so far in ours. The opposition therefore presents two arguments with diametrically opposite messages, as the representative Solvik-Olsen and the representative Astrup also did. I also see that the Christian People's Party is on the job and presents information they believe they have not previously had access to, as the representative Syversen said at the press conference in the hiking hall yesterday. In Bergen’s Official Journal today, we can read that new information is alleged to have emerged from any health hazard using the amine technology that is thought to be used on Mongstad. There says a rebellious Line Henriette Heimdal: ‘KrF and I would never have agreed to build the amine part of the test centre if we had known about that government being notified through this report. There is no one on the Big Thing who, knowingly and willfully, gambles with the health of people in this way." In that case, I find it strange that the same representative himself took part in the Energy and Environment Committee last year: ‘The Committee has noted some uncertainties regarding health aspects of the use of amine purification technology. The Committee assumes that the health aspects of technology choices are subject to careful research and that the results are included in the evaluation reports.’;» [[...]] It is new to me that the information obligation implies that the government must help the representative Hämdal to understand the meaning of the comments she herself writes. The conditions mentioned have been known for Stortinget since January – last year. Do I urge any more moderation in language use in this debate? Claims that the government is willing to gamble with people's lives and health are gross and incalculable. I could still. This week's powerful statements from the opposition can be refuted point by point, and we intend to do so in this debate. There is a pattern, and it is that previous comments and statements from the opposition constantly cancel what they claim is a breach of the information obligation. It's sad, because it takes the focus away from what should be in the center all the way – to make progress as quickly as possible in the Mongstad project. The opposition later, as if they had not heard about health hazards. They do not seem to know what they themselves have written about the matter earlier. In the case of the Progress Party and the Right, it's not even double communication we're witnessing. It's triple communication, because while the Right expresses great disappointment that CO2 cleaning in Mongstad is being delayed, the Storting just a few days ago has dealt with the last of a wide range of proposals, where the Right proposes to remove what those call the strange requirements for CO2 management. And let me just stress that in that context it's not positive. This is particularly sad, because it devalues the real disappointment many feel that full-scale cleaning in Mongstad needs more time. At the beginning of May, I met a bunch of very engaged young people from Nature and Youth outside the Stortinget. The ignition such people have for the environment is real, it's important, and it's something that should be taken very seriously. Their disappointment is rooted in real commitment to the project and not an increasing need to reduce the climate issue to unworthy political games.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1281	The Energy and Environment Committee, following a call from the Financial Committee, has addressed the issue of supplementary commitments and re-priorities for the State budget in 2010. 1833 and cap. 4833 on CO2 treatment. The Committee has had a thorough management of the chapter and has also organised hearings on the matter. The government's work on the capture and storage of CO2s technologically required. It's new work, and it was well illustrated in your hearing that both the establishment of the technology center and the construction of a full-scale facility will have dimensions that make them unique in the global context. The Mongstad project is an important contribution to the global work that we need to do to address the climate challenges facing the world. In Copenhagen, about all the nations in the world supported the two-degree goal – i.e. global temperature shall not exceed 2 degrees above pre-industrial level. The challenge is massive. The International Energy Agency has calculated that the capture and storage of CO2 can contribute to significant parts of the required emission reductions – not only can it contribute, but it is an important commitment to achieving the climate targets. Therefore, the capture and storage of CO2 in Mongstad is particularly important. Technology is important to achieve climate targets, not only national targets, but also internationally. Work on the establishment of the technology centre at Mongstad and full-scale CO2 capture plants has led Norway in the international work on the capture and storage of CO2. That's where we'll be. We're not going to skip the target of vision. The project shall be implemented and the technology developed. But as for the other pioneers, there is no complete map that we can follow towards the goal. That's exactly why we're doing the job. We'll draw the map of those who will walk the road in the future. The case has been largely influenced by the statements made by the opposition that the information obligation towards Stortinget is not met. These claims are unfounded. It has always been clear that the project is ambitious and particularly demanding. There's no news for Stortinget. Statoil's master plan from February 2009 is an open document, which anyone can read. The size was informed that Gassnova and Statoil-Hydro saw possible alternatives to the master plan's project solution. Gassnova’s report of June 2009 recommended a gradual expansion – and Stortinget was also informed in its time. So the Christian People's Party has been concerned that the same report also addresses possible health risks using amines. The last yesterday they expressed this through the media. It's okay to have worries, but what's uncontrollable is that one tries to give the impression that there hasn't been any information about this issue in Stortinget. That's not correct. The store was informed in St.prp. No 38 of January 2009 and not least in a private letter to the Christian People's Party in February. I also found the comment that the Christian People's Party itself was in and on, that was the subject last year. As I said, the matter and the question of information obligations has been handled by the Energy and Environment Committee and the Financial Committee, and let me point out that in the hearings organised by the Committee, there was nothing of what emerged, suggesting that the information obligation of the Storting was not complied with, rather on the contrary. The entire opposition was asked the questions they had and wished to ask during the hearing of both the Council of State and other actors in the project. Let me therefore stress that the Committee's plurality is clear that the government has provided the Stortinget with a legitimate basis for its decisions in line with the information obligation. The size was informed shortly after the government concluded that a postponement could not be avoided. The majority therefore insist that there is no basis for the distrust that the opposition has expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1324	The postponement of full-scale CO2 capture at Mongstad is an important issue for Norway's credibility in climate and environmental policies. Even more important is Mongstad for the great world virtue in view of our climate. The case has also proved to be serious for the relationship between big business and government. I want to explain the Christian People's Party's view of the facts in the matter. The State and Statoil concluded an implementation agreement for CO2 management in Mongstad in 2006. Together with the emissions permit, this ‘baseline for the construction of the CO2 capture plant on Mongstad’ forms to use the government’s own words for Stortinget. In 2007, the implementation agreement and the emissions permit were submitted to the Stortinget for consideration. The government presented in detail the plans for full-scale CO2 capture at Mongstad. The investment decision was to be taken in 2012 and full scale CO2 capture would be in place by the end of 2014. In May this year, the Minister of Oil and Energy announced that full-scale CO2 capture at Mongstad had been suspended indefinitely. In the revised national budget, the government writes that the decision was taken in April this year, after Gassnova had other new recommendations on progress in March. In its work on the matter, the Energy and Environment Committee has asked the Ministry to send Gassnova’s reports received by the government during 2009. For the sake of order: Gassnova SF is the State performing company for the implementation of CO2 capture and storage in Mongstad. Gassnova is not any organ. It is the implementing body for the government’s lunar landing. The Committee has received three out of five reports, two of them in highly wired versions. The Ministry has given reasons for the gossip with regard to professional secrecy and future negotiating positions. But what do the cords reveal? Indeed, in June 2009 and November 2009, the Minister of Oil and Energy received strong professional counter-representations against the implementation and planned progress of the project. In June 2009, Gassnova announced a tripling of costs, half-cleaning of the CHP plant by 2015 and health risks associated with the use of amines for CO2 cleaning. In November 2009, Gassnova recommended progress leading to the completion of CO2 capture by one turbine at the CHP plant by the third quarter of 2015, i.e. half clean-up by the end of 2015. This is a breach of the full scale clean-up requirements of the emissions permit during 2014. Shouldn't the Storting be familiar with Gassnova's recommendations as a granting authority? One day after the committee gave the vote, we got the same two reports with less gossip. And what was hidden behind the cords that were removed? Yes, that Gassnova warned in June 2009 about a one-five year postponement, that Gassnova recommended full scale cleaning of the CHP plant in November 2009 only in 2016/2017. On Wednesday the Committee received the interconnection report. Today it's public. But the Council of State got this April 16, 2009, long before the elections and long before the big Mongstad debate last year. It is clear from this that it is not possible to achieve targets by 2014. We come with half-cleaning during 2015–2016. The representatives of Sund, Sande and Valen in the Committee have referred to the comment in the TCM setting last year. Dear fellow representatives, I know this remark, because I have written this remark. This note was written with my hand. The Christian People's Party took this up because the rapporteur in Lindås was concerned about it. Our representative, Laila Davøy, asked questions. But no one told about the knowledge the government had with it from 16 April 2009, when this project was referred to in the interconnection report as an HMS project because of the amine project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1377	About half of global CO2 emissions come from large individual sources. It's coal power. It's gas power. It's the process industry. Work in Mongstad is our main contribution to the joint international effort in this area, an effort to develop and deploy technologies that reduce emissions from fossil power generation and industry. There is no realistic way to solve the climate problem that does not include the capture and storage of CO2. We have to clean coal, we have to clean gas, we have to clean new power plants, and we have to clean up existing power plants. That's why the work in Mongstad is so important. We have chosen Mongstad – not because the project is simple, but because it represents the real challenges that need to be solved, because it is part of the global climate struggle. We have therefore not taken a break in the effort either. No, on the contrary, the work on the Mongstad projects is ongoing. The technology center for CO2 capture is already under construction, and the center will be the first in its battle in the world. At the same time, it is continuously planning and preparing the full-scale plant, including the first of its kind in the world. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with the government that we are facing a very comprehensive but also important work – a work that requires thorough planning, a work that requires preparation, and a work where it is necessary to take time to lay a solid foundation. The State and Statoil signed a CO2 management agreement in Mongstad in 2006. It was the beginning of a comprehensive work – a demanding work. We have been working continuously on the project since 2006. Technical, legal, commercial and economic issues have been assessed. This has given us a lot of new insight. It has given us knowledge that can give us a better project. This is knowledge and understanding that makes us today closer to the goal of combating climate change, not removers. It has always been clear that our ambitions to realize the CO2 management at Mongstad challenge us. I've never hidden that from Stortinget. We already said that in March 2007 in St.prp. No 49 for 2006-2007. Statoil’s publicly available master plan was submitted to the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy in February 2009. This study shows that full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad is feasible, but also points to several major challenges related to implementation, including: in the case of propulsion. As outlined in the revised budget in May 2009 and in my contribution to the Grand Committee’s hearing on 1 June of this year, a cooperation between Gassnova and Statoil was launched after the Master Plan, in order to identify and assess possible alternatives to the main solution described in Statoil’s investigation. As I said in my post during the hearing on 1 June of this year, Statoil and Gassnova worked out a joint and internal report from this interconnection phase, called the interconnection report. This is a report that mainly looks at technical solutions and alternatives. The report confirms what was reported in St. Prp. No 49, 2 March 2007, namely that the ambition to realise CO2 management in Mongstad is challenging. However, this report does not reject the fact that 2014 is impossible. In the big debate about the test centre at Mongstad on 7 May 2009, I also stated that the large-scale capture and storage of CO2 is a major challenge, but that it is possible within the deadlines we are working on. The interconnection report was part of the work that led to Gassnova's recommendation on CO2 capture at Mongstad. Gassnova’s recommendation was transmitted to the Ministry on 26 June 2009. In this report, Gassnova assessed that a gradual expansion of the CO2 capture plant could be relevant. The company’s assessment was that such a solution could be realised in line with the initial progress plan and would have a start at the end of 2014/2015 following an investment decision in 2011. In subsequent work on the planning and preparation of the full-scale plant, Gassnova has made further assessments of how the project can best be carried out. Based on experience and knowledge from then on, Gassnova submitted a new report on 12 November 2009. The report contained assessments and assumptions for a step-by-step development with the timing of the investment decision in 2012 and the estimated start date in 2015. These assessments have included further work on the planning and preparation of the project. Let me summarise: Last winter and spring, extensive investigation work was carried out at Gassnova and Statoil, both in collaboration and separately. In the summer of last year, Gassnova submitted a recommendation to the OED. A step-by-step solution for Mongstad was described here and that this was possible with start-up at the end of 2014/2015. The government presented this assessment in the 2010 government budget. In November we received a new report from Gassnova assessing that the investment decision in 2012 would give start-up in 2015. In the new era, which was presented to Stortinget at the same time as we received the report, the government says that the project is complex and requires new solutions in many areas. We also say that we will get closer to the results of the ongoing work. We did so in the revised budget this year. As we explained, in March this year Gassnova recommended that this plan be adjusted. Planning and preparation of large projects are demanding work. En-route changes will take place – changes that may make sense, changes that can help you get more. New insight and learning are, in other words, a natural, yes I would say in many cases a desired part of such planning processes. And in this case, we're going to build a facility that doesn't have the equivalent of anywhere in the world. It requires us to do a real basic job before the investment decision is presented to the Stortinget. The government has worked hard to realize the full-scale CO2 capture. We have done so in line with the original investment decision plans in 2012. Gassnova and Statoil have done the same until spring 2010. However, based on the overall experience and learning from work, Gassnova, as mentioned, recommended in March 2010 that this plan be adjusted. And in the light of the extensive preparatory work carried out, the government announced in the draft revised national budget that we would spend longer on planning than previously assumed. We'll do that because we think it's the best thing for the Mongstad project. It is the best for the environment, and it is the best for future generations. Therefore, with today’s information, it is now foreseen that an overall decision-making basis for the full-scale capture, transport and storage of CO2 from Mongstad could be submitted to the Stortinget in 2014. The decision of the government is due to the fact that the project has proved more demanding and more complex than we thought – not because there is one specific technological challenge that has emerged, but because the challenges in total are large and complex: We're going to build a facility that's not built before. We're going to build on a refinery in operation. We're going to build with new, young and immature technology. And at the top of it all, there are significant commercial and contractual challenges. Nevertheless, we have taken on the job, and the challenges along the way bring both Norway and the world ahead. We shall succeed in this. It is clear from the revised budget in May that work is in progress on developing a more complementary and concrete agreement for the remaining part of the planning phase. We have informed that the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Statoil had agreed on a scheme for work on the project until July 2010 so that the technical project work could continue. In order to maintain the progress of the project in parallel with the development of a works of agreement, the scheme will continue beyond July 2010. I will explain this in more detail in the 2011 State Budget. The basic legal obligation to provide information to Stortinget has always been the basis for my work on the planning and preparation of the project at Mongstad. It'll still do that. There is a significant amount of work that remains before the investment base can be completed and presented to the size. I will come back to Stortinget as the planning work progresses. In the context of the next year’s government budget, submitted early in October, the Storting will be regularly briefed on the planning and preparation work carried out and on the work planned to be carried out in 2011. In this way, I will contribute to Storting's knowledge and understanding of both the opportunities and the challenges that lie in the further work on full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad. We have been, and we are, very ambitious in our commitment to CO2 management. It is because of political ambitions and political will that today we are in the process of building the technology centre in Mongstad. This is for the same reason that we are planning full-scale CO2 management at the same location. These are very complicated projects. These are very challenging projects. It's continuous learning along the way. To achieve our goals, this requires that we are willing to adjust the course as we move forward – as we gain new knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1492	I note that the Council of State does not reject the allegations made by the opposition. Claiming that the project is complicated is no news. We have known that all along, but with regard to the information obligation that he has not complied with, he did not provide examples of information being given anyway. The opposition has asked many critical questions along the way, but there is no argument that the government has given us information. It is an argument that says there have been many rumors about significant delays, which we have asked the government to confirm or cancel, without having received a good answer to it. So I notice that the Council of State now says that according to Gassnova's draft, one could actually achieve the 2014 target, but then he mumbles that it requires an investment decision in 2011, which would then have been an acceleration of the investment decision. The size has never been informed that it was a prerequisite, or that it was assessed. Ergo: There has never been anything that the government has realistically assessed and promoted for the Storting. So also there, the government has withheld material information in relation to what it needed to comply with this emission permit. Then the question is, why was Stortinget never informed that 2011 would have to be the investment time, which would have made the project much more urgent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1503	I think the line from the representative Solvik-Olsen now very well shows the totally different entrance to the representative and the undersigned has to this process. I think in a very thorough way now I have explained the process gradually from Statoil starting to come up with its assessment of the matter, until Gassnova then as the government body has reviewed the report and looked at what was going to be done to adjust the plans that Statoil put forward in order to realize the project. That's what Gassnova spent time on. And then there has been a comprehensive process on this, and there have been reporting points along the way, which I referred to in my post. So the situation is that in the spring of this year we still get a conclusion from Gassnova that this is too tight a deadline. The only reason you have worked on this is because you wanted to realize the project within the time limits that apply, and Gassnova has been working on it, until they concluded that the deadlines were too tight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1508	We have received ongoing information that the project is demanding. We knew that, because there was no bus tour we were going to take on, but a moon landing. On the other hand, the government has consistently maintained that 2014, despite the fact that there have been professional assessments that suggest that this will not be possible. In its submission, the Council of State stated that the report of 15 April states that it is possible to clean by 2014. On the other hand, the report of 15 April makes it quite clear that a time span between 2015 and 2016 is envisaged and that the technology qualification process will take a minimum of six years, from October 2009. Does the Council of State really think that this is not relevant professional information that he should have presented to the Stortinge in connection with the debate on the testing centre at Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1517	To say that as it's sometimes said, I'm glad I got that question. I followed with interest on the TV news last night and heard the opposition's argument for today's mistrust proposal. This report is, of course, to which much reference is made. So it's a report that has two significant conclusions. One is: Yes, it is demanding to achieve the goal that has been set. But: Yes, it is possible. It is the two main conclusions contained in this report. I briefed the Stortinget in May 2009 in connection with the TCM debate, in which Astrup was also a participant. What did I say there? Yeah, I said two things. Achieving the 2014 target will be challenging, but it is possible. So what I said there was exactly the same thing as the main conclusions in this report. I have never hidden the fact that the Mongstad project is very demanding and difficult. So now we have had a great will to implement it within the framework that has been set.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1526	I listened attentively to the statements of the Council of State to hear if I could capture any kind of recognition or self-criticism. The Council of State says that it is very important in such processes that you are open to new insight and learning. My question to the Council of State is: in view of the fact that he has now been pressured in the last few weeks to provide new information to the Stortinget, does he have any kind of recognition that the Stortinget could have been better informed, more comprehensive, thoroughly and openly informed, at an earlier stage than through the revised national budget this spring? Does the Council of State take any form of self-criticism at all? Is there anything in retrospect that he thinks he could do differently in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1533	No, I do not agree that this is the basis for the criticism that the opposition is making today. Because I believe that what has been the process here is a process from a situation when Statoil presented its assessments via extensive government work to look at the possibilities of realising the project within the objectives set by the government and the magnificence. And there have been assessments, but there have also been recommendations. I have submitted those recommendations to Stortinget, cf. what happened in the summer of 2009, in which Gassnova recommended a step-by-step approach to the realisation of the project within the framework set. The Stortinget was briefed on this. It was Gassnova that the government agency worked after that period. So I disagree with the question. I believe that there has been neither wish nor any situation in which information has been withheld in relation to what this project has been about. And the thing is, the government and Gassnova have spent every hour trying to realize a project that the Storting has been busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1538	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1542	Since Terje Riis-Johansen has answered the questions about information for Stortinget, I want to focus on the larger picture. So the big picture is the climate challenge, which is a huge challenge for humanity, and where, because of a little cold winter, we have believed that the seriousness of the situation is not great. Just go to China -- I'm not going to use many examples -- where in Yunnan Province it's been eight degrees warmer than normal, and where there's been a huge drought disaster. This is the biggest issue on the agenda. This has to be over this case, we must not let this political game take seriously. Development of carbon capture and storage technologies is one of the main responses to this challenge. It's never been suggested that it's easy. And let's also remember what the problem is. The task is not to start a half-way project in Mongstad, which might clean the gas there at a high price. The task is to create a carbon capture and storage project in Mongstad that is so good that the infective effect of this is that it starts the ball that starts rolling and ends up in 5,000 to 10,000 not parallel, not equal, but similar projects in the world. The first car was of course much, much more expensive and more difficult and demanded more research and took longer than all the other cars. But if the first car had not infected over and set the course for those who came after, it would not have any meaning either. It's this huge ambition we have at Mongstad. And if we don't succeed in this, we won't succeed either. We don't succeed in isolation in Mongstad. Therefore, it is also of great importance to see that the Mongstad project has an international interest – that South Africa, which has the largest individual point emissions of any country, will be involved, that Shell will be involved, and that important Norwegian technology companies will be involved. The more we can draw others, the better this will be. We have repeated about every debate in this Chamber that we have had with people from the Committee on Energy and the Environment, one thing: the future cannot be adopted, it can only be created. But we don't create it if we don't stand on every day and have the pressure to get it done. It's because of these difficult ambitions of the red-green government that we're moving on in this area. But we can't magic. We can't set the date by decision, but we can do what we can to get it done. As the Progress Party once said, the future is being created, it is not being adopted. Norway then has a very special political system. I don't know if there is any other place in Europe, because I don't know all countries. It is a country where there is only one political alternative. We have a red-green government that presents issues, and we have an opposition that doesn't agree on anything, an opposition that only runs one exercise, and that's criticizing the red-green government for not being good enough to conduct red-green politics. We never see it more clearly than today. Before today, the Advance Party would spend more oil money, and the Right would spend less oil money. So here you have a sort of criticism from the Christian People's Party and the Left on carbon capture and storage and another from the Right and Advance Party. But it's not like the one who says that a place is too hot, and the one who says it's too cold, the one who says that something is too dry, and that something is too wet, means the same thing. You can't build a political alternative over time just to be against the red-green and just to think that we're not perfect to conduct red-green politics, and I dare say that we're never going to be. So there'll always be something to pick up. But my challenge to the opposition is: one day let's know what the opposition's political alternative is, what is the alternative policy, so we can't compare the red-green with the perfect, but with the opposition. Then we get the debate we need. And in this area, it's central, because only in the last month have we received three major proposals from the Right and the Advance Party that will make it more difficult to achieve the climate goals. They were against the government's purchasing centre policy. They believe that we should open the Lofoten and the Vestral now immediately, as soon as possible, and they believe that we should start new gas power stations without carbon capture and storage. All of this is a policy that will make us climb higher on the high-carbon mountain, before we start going down again. If you want to go down from the social development that Norway has had in recent years, from a high-carbon policy to a low-carbon policy, then my recommendation is that you start going down. You don't go up sharply until you have to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1562	The Council of State gives the impression that the opposition does not have alternative policies for the government. In the Energy and Environment Committee, 28 out of 38 cases were dealt with this year by the opposition and ten by the government. Who is it that promotes politics, a well-informed person can ask. Governments are annoyed because the Right Party and the Advance Party want to build gas power plants without demands for cleaning at start-up, but it is in practice the policy of the government. Mongstad is built without cleaning at start-up. The mobile gas power plants are built without cleaning at start-up. All Norwegian gas power stations are built without any requirement for cleaning at all. So the council says that the Progress Party had as slogans that the future is created, it is not adopted. It's a slogan that we're still living by. It is the State Council itself that has required cleaning in 2014 at Mongstad, in 2009 at Kårstø and will ban the sale of new petrol cars from 2015. He's the one who thinks he can decide the future, and not create it. The question is: why did the Council send a letter to the Environment Committee on 28 April saying that the technology for CO2 cleaning is available, and just three days later, the Riis-Johansen State Council said the opposite? And both admit that the information got them into her in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1576	I have responded to this many times, even during the hearing. The technology is available in the isolated sense that we know how to do it, we know how to store it, and we know how to separate, but what we don't know is how to scale this up in such a way that it can infect the rest of the world. To do that on a mini scale -- even if a test centre is not a small thing -- is one thing, but doing this in such a way that the whole world views this as an interesting project, which can have an infectious effect, and which can be the beginning of the development of the 5,000 to 10,000 sewage treatment plants that we need, is a difficult task. So I noticed an interesting thing in Solvik-Olsen's articles. For that post undermined the way the main object of the opposition is. The main issue of the opposition has been that there is too little information given to Stortinget. But the whole undertone of Solvik-Olsen's posts was something quite different, that all this has been known all along. The party of progress has seen it from day one, just a red-green government, which is so stupid that it does not follow the policies of the Progress Party in all areas, has not understood this – while the information has been available at bottom and ground all the time. It was the undertone of the contributions of Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1583	Now I was glad that the Council of State said the last thing he did. Because of this information, it may have been available. We've heard rumors. There have been rumors in the press, and various actors have been out and thought that this would be delayed. But the crucial thing here is that the government has decided that it would not happen, that they stood firm in 2014, completely independent of the professional objections that came. So then the opposition in this room just raised the question of whether the postponement of the test centre would mean the postponement of full-scale sewage treatment plants, the council said no – if that would not mean that we would have postponements. The government's answer was no. And that's what's crucial here, that's that the government has failed to inform the Storting. The interconnection report of 15 April shows that the Ministry of the Environment has been continuously informed of the conclusion, including that there would be delays by 2015-2016, at the earliest. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1590	Terje Riis-Johansen has, of course, been very successful both in the hearing and here in the Chamber today on what the government has shown, how we have provided that information to the Stortinget on an ongoing basis, and that we presented the overall information on the basis of what Gassnova came with in April 2010. There's nothing to add to this. How the Ministry of Oil and Energy has always informed the Ministry of the Environment is a matter for the government. It is Terje Riis-Johansen who is responsible for informing the Storting about this, and he has kept the Storting informed in the best way all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1597	The Ministry of the Environment has received the same reports at exactly the same time and dates as the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, so let it be firm. Then go to the line itself. Erik Solheim says that it is difficult to conduct a perfect red-green policy. He may not even be able to do it himself. Then he goes into attack on the Right and the Advance Party, which conducts a gas power policy that does not involve purification. But, dear President, that is what the red-greens are asking us to do today: to conduct a policy on Mongstad that does not involve purification. We're going to get an increase in Norwegian emissions by 2.5 pst. We're going to get the largest point emission. How long does the red-green government have to have in order to realize that what they are doing today is a progressive party/right-wing policy, with a government council abdicated in relation to an emission permit that his government has given?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1606	I think the questioner really himself realizes that this question becomes quite unreasonable. We work hard every day to get a test center first, then full scale cleaning in Mongstad as soon as possible, in a responsible way technologically, but also in a responsible way financially. Because if it is not a responsible financial project, it will also have no infectious value on others. Then I thought that the Christian People's Party agreed with the government that, in parallel with this incredibly demanding work, starting new gas power plants without cleaning – which will make the problem bigger – must be crazy politics. We work hard and work hard to get it done in Mongstad. Are we really going to increase the burden by starting new ones at the same time? There's a Christian People's Party and the government, right? The reality of this debate is that if we ignore the game of government, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree with the government in all the big lines, both in terms of Mongstad and in terms of environmental policy. But you disagree with the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1613	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1616	I would like to begin by stressing that the Minister of Oil and Energy has the full confidence of the Workers' Party in this matter, and we will not support it announced the motion of censure. The reason for this is simply that we do not believe that the information obligation towards the Storting is broken. This case has been thoroughly dealt with in Stortinget, among others. through extensive consultations, and all questions have been satisfactorily answered, both by the Council of State Terje Riis-Johansen and by the Prime Minister. I also notice that the opposition has had a different approach to the motion of censure. While the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party announced a motion of censure last week, it was not until yesterday that the Right and Left felt that there was a basis for distrust. Their justification is a report from April last year, which notes that it will be difficult to achieve the goal of full scale clean-up in 2014. But this was not new information at this point in time. It was already fixed in Statoil's so-called Master Plan of February 2009. It was a report that was available two months before the so-called interconnection report, which now appears to be the main reason for the mistrust proposal. The working party's hope and my hope is that we can now get together to move on with the project, with the ambition that we will succeed in developing new technologies that can help solve the biggest problem of our time, namely climate change. Let me then move on to another of the challenges of our time, namely the aftermath of the global financial crisis. In many parts of Europe, societies are characterised by an accelerating unemployment rate, by people who experience insecurity for work and income, by young people who face adult life with high levels of uncertainty as to whether they will at all enter the labour market, by the many who are concerned about whether they can pay their current expenditure on housing and a general life. And in large parts of Europe, working life goes to governments and parliaments to deal with a huge public debt. Public employees are offered real wage cuts, and fewer colleagues are involved in doing the job. There are cuts in the number of employees, there are reduced welfare offers, and differences are increasing. In Norway, we are better off than most other countries through the economic crisis. The image of an island with full employment in a sea of unemployment is used. And when that's the case, it's because we've kept the economy in order, and because we've never awakened from our main goal of securing everyone's right to work. Our model of social development has been crucial to that end. We have cooperated with the social partners on the content of the crisis packages that were presented, to make them accurate in relation to today's and tomorrow's jobs. We have maintained the level of taxation and thereby contributed to ensuring the fairest possible distribution. And we've been keeping track of and developing our common welfare services and social security networks. We work towards new goals, such as: is about combating high school drop-outs and ensuring full hospital coverage. Of course, politicians and people most in many countries would like our results. The Nordic model, or the Norwegian model, is also being met with curiosity and is being sought more and more when we meet European colleagues in different contexts. What the Storting has now been invited to do through the revised national budget that is being discussed here today is to help us take good care of the results we have in Norway – an economic policy adapted to the fact that some industries will be affected by the fact that many countries around us are in a dramatic economic situation. And in the revision, efforts are concentrated in particular on labour market measures, on the yard industry, which is now the hardest hit by the international financial crisis, and on more rail and road investment. And then in the last few months, we've seen that the right-hand side of the board has increased the dissension of the polls. At the same time, we have been able to record that the party is at full speed away from its well-known political views. I doubt that I am very wrong when I think that the Right has also seen that people want good community solutions. There is no privatisation of public services and services requested by the population. On the other hand, there is a broad consensus among people that good public schools and health services are more important than tax havens. People don't want a social direction where the differences increase. That is why I think the Right has seen its Swedish colleagues. The moderates, who are the Right Sister Party in our neighbouring country Sweden, won the last election by moving into the center of politics in their choice of rhetoric. But that didn't mean they canceled their policy. Many Swedes have noticed that it is more important to see what they do than to hear what they say. From the Swedish debate now ahead of the parliamentary elections of the autumn, we can clearly see that there is a long way between the developments promised by the citizens before the elections – the impression they then gave by talking about exclusion – and the results that are actually the consequences of the civil policy that is being pursued. First of all, they promised more people in work. In April this year, unemployment in Sweden was 9.8 p.m. Compared with April last year, the number of unemployed young people has increased by 31,000 to 190 000. The number of longterm unemployed has increased by 54 000, to 161 000. Every third person without a job has been there for more than half a year, and almost 1⁄2 million people together are out of work. The moderates promised to reduce the differences in society. The result is that social contributions increase in 90 pst. by the municipalities. They promised to increase investment in welfare, but when the Swedish Finance Committee discusses the economic situation, only the last year is 25 000 employees in welfare services resigned. They promised a responsible economic policy, and what did they do? Well, the government has even chosen to borrow money for its tax cuts – 80 billion. kr in three years – and it is the richest percentage of the population that has received a quarter of the tax. Private children’s hospitals have also been established where only children with insurance are offered. It has become a reality, and it strikes me that too early-born children, children with disabilities or children with chronic diseases are hardly the target of that hospital. Many of us have noticed that many Swedes work in Norway now. Of course, this may have many reasons, but many are here because they do not get a job in the civilised Sweden, yet it is indisputable. When we close the first year of the new ageing period today, we do so by revising a budget that will contribute to continued low unemployment. Since we were gathered in October last autumn, we have also taken new steps to improve the welfare community. Then we still have many unresolved issues that remain, and as we in the Workers' Party look forward to solving with our government partners in SV and the Center Party. Then I record that I have not yet received an answer to the question that I asked to the Right Leader and to the President of the Advance Party respectively in the final debate on the matter of whether they had a joint civil construction project. I was going to figure that out during the period, that was the answer. Today, we can see that that answer has at least not come that far, despite the fact that the two parties have a common basic political vision and, moreover, the win for the polls. One would think that this was a good starting point for making some common clarifications, but instead we see that the distance has increased from when we dealt with the state budget in the autumn to the treatment of the revised today. This is, of course, most clearly illustrated by the very clear disagreement in economic policy that emerges both in the position of the Committee on Finance and in the debate here today. Nor do we record any approach to key issues such as the future pension system and climate issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1656	I want to refer to Innst. S. No 210 for 2002-2003, where a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs so many important things, including the government’s obligation to make serious professional counter-representations clear, even if they were contrary to the government’s proposal, that the government was responsible for disclosing uncertainties associated with information, that information following the promotion of the case for the Storting should be forwarded, that serious breaches of the disclosure obligation should be punishable, that breaches should have serious and far-reaching consequences, in particular if this leads to the Storting’s taking or could have made decisions on the basis of error. This is a very strong and unanimous attitude of the Storting Control and Constitutional Committee. And my question to the Labour Party's parliamentary leader is whether she agrees with the conclusions that the Committee drew a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1663	The Frøiland Committee is probably a tax from the 1990s that has been updated in these days, like Sigbjørn Johnsen and Drillo Olsen. [[Laughter]] The interconnection report that has been at the centre of yesterday’s and today’s debate did not provide any new information that was not known through the Master Plan Report to Statoil, which was presented as early as last February. There was no news in April last year that it would be difficult to achieve the goal of clean-up in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1670	That answer from Helga Pedersen leads to a completely natural follow-up question. Does Helga Pedersen feel that it is in line with the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the disclosure obligation that she refers yesterday and today, and just under a minute ago, to a Statoil report and a Statoil press release as adequate for the government's disclosure obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1675	The report of the Frøiland Committee also states that information that is widely known is considered to be known to the Storting. There was a public debate on the Master Plan Report, which was also attended by representatives of Storting, and there was no new information in the interconnection report that was not provided in the Statoil report. The Minister for Oil and Energy has explained progress in the project in budgetary proposals and in other documents, but the final technical basis did not exist until March this year. And that's what Stortinget now has to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1680	The Labour Party's parliamentary leader now says about the understanding of the obligation of information, is far more serious than the specific matter we are dealing with now, because it is based on the understanding of the largest party in the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of what the Grand Duchy has the right to be presented, and the duty of the general government. And my question, after Helga Pedersen has today stated in Dagbladet that the Riis-Johansen Council of State is flawless, is, after all, whether the standard we have now seen in the last days – where the Council of State has had to be pressured to report after report, to delete the wire after wire, and finally to present yesterday a report that was not public, and which has been posted on the websites today – is the gold standard for the information obligation to the Stortinget, as the Labour Party's parliamentary leader sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1685	It would have been tempting to note that it is the first time I hear the Christian People's Party to speak to remove the cord. No one is faultless, but in this case, the Council of State, Riis-Johansen, has acted quite correctly. He's given the right information to the Storing at the right time, and that's what's central.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1692	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1695	Let me just start by saying that I had actually expected something more from the Labour Party parliamentary leader than the hoaxing, flirting and arrogance that we just witnessed, especially when the Stortinge deals with such an important issue as a motion of censure against a Council of State. But I'm only allowed to take for information that that's how the Workers' Party acts on this kind of question. It is only clear that Terje Riis-Johansen has not complied with the information and information obligation of Stortinget. The size should have the right information, and so there has been no information about the professional counter-representation of the government's timetable for, and implementation of, full-scale CO2 capture at Mongstad. The government argues that there has always been doubt about this. We know that. Looks like we've got that all along. That's not what this is about. That you have always known that this is demanding and complicated, yes, we all have it all the time. That's still not what this is about. It is about whether the government has chosen to pass on all relevant information in the case to the Storting in due time. And it's just to note that it hasn't been done by the Council of State. Nor has he explained the uncertainty that has been associated with the information that could have led the Storting to draw a different conclusion from that, unless that is the case, of course, that the red-green parliamentarians in this Chamber do not think for themselves and at any time only relate to the dictates they get from the government. However, it has also failed to provide important information that has come after the case was submitted to Stortinget. So in all of these circumstances, the government has broken the information obligation of the Storting. I would like to emphasise once again the position I referred to in the exchange of reply cards, the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on how to understand the obligation to provide information. It's essential. It is so essential that I believe that, in particular, a majority government, which has the power to implement what it wants, should have a somewhat greater degree of respect and humility for the constitutional and parliamentary rules that apply regardless of whether you have a majority government or a minority government. It would be very wise for the government to act with a somewhat greater degree of humility in this matter than we have seen. Rather, what we have seen is that any attempt at criticism has been met with harelas and rejection by representatives of the red-green parties. I had expected a somewhat greater degree of seriousness in the approach to this, and that one had a somewhat greater degree of respect for the Greatness than one has shown. But it's just to say, it doesn't exist. When you send unsolicited documents to the Storting, when you exempt documents from the public, you should think that what we discussed here was a serious state secret. What we are discussing here has been the subject of an election campaign. Much attention has been paid; it has been the subject of the Prime Minister’s New Year speech. It's a question that many people have opinions and expectations about. Then one must be able to calculate a greater degree of publicity, a greater degree of soberness, a greater degree of backwardness between government and greatness. There's nothing in this case, and I can't help but wonder why the government is choosing this approach. I also noticed the Prime Minister's approach to this when he discussed in Political Quarter today, where he used almost as a counter-argument that the fact that Sigbjørn Johnsen had received five mistrust proposals against him in his time was almost a force for Terje Riis-Johansen. I'll come back to you a little later today. But I think maybe the Prime Minister should go through history more closely before he pushes Sigbjørn Johnsen and mistrust proposals against him in front of him in this matter. I will, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, bring up proposal No. 105, which is distributed in the hall, which states that the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen does not have the confidence of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1717	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1722	I note that the Progress Party is promoting mistrust proposals on the basis of the Mongstad project. It is now touching to witness the great commitment of the Progress Party to CO2 management. Usually we've been here in the hall witnessing a counter engagement. And the representative Solvik-Olsen of the Progress Party has characterized the Mongstad project as meaningless policy. The opposition has justified its support for the motion of censure by referring to the so-called interconnection report, which was announced to the Energy and Environment Committee on 16 June. But early last week the Progress Party announced that they did not trust the oil and energy minister. What basis was there for the Advancement Party at that time, which made it necessary to make such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1732	This is not the case whether you are in favour of or against a test centre or full-scale sewage treatment plant. This is because the government has an obligation to inform Stortinget in all relevant ways in all matters dealt with by Stortinget. So this is not a question of political disagreement. This is a question of rules of play, of formalities between government and corruption. Helga Pedersen should be involved in this if she is to continue to be the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party. In fact, I expect the largest party in the country to have better knowledge of the parliamentary rules than what is now being presented. The Mongstad project may have many pages, but I think that both Helga Pedersen and the Prime Minister should stop talking about the Mongstad project with the fault they are doing. So there have been unanimous settings in this room about many of the conditions that are now being referred to. This debate is about the relationship between government and enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1740	The Mongstad case has been discussed in Stortinget many times and in many rounds. It's been said and written different things. The progress party has been active. By December at the latest, in the vote on this year's budget, the Progress Party clearly wrote that there were warnings about the postponement of the Mongstad project. There has been openness on the part of the government about the processes. We've had a clear target all along. Has the representative Jensen forgotten what the Progress Party itself wrote in the comments in December, that there were just a lot of vague signals about the progress of the Mongstad project?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1745	There has been a consistent line in the Progress Party approach to this project from day one. That's what we're going to keep going. The fact that the Progress Party has agreed with the government on some of this and disagreed with the government in something else is quite correct. The question has not been whether there has been uncertainty about this or that there has been a demanding process to achieve it. Looks like everyone's got it all the time. What we are discussing today is the duty of the government to provide the Storting with all relevant information, whether we discuss Mongstad, tax or justice policy – it doesn't matter. All relevant information, including information which may weaken the political conclusions of the government, shall be presented to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget has the necessary and relevant basis for a decision. There are common rules of play, and I would expect them to have also followed red-green majority parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1750	I have to say that from a purely factual point of view, it is very difficult to understand the security of Jensen's representative here today. First, state councillor Terje Riis-Johansen has gone through the information given to the Storting at different times in a thorough and good way. But how did the Progress Party and the Right handle this here in December? Indeed, in the Energy and Environment Committee's comments on the current year's budget, they wrote that: ‘Already now there are notified delays in relation to the target of one full-scale CO2 capture plant at Mongstad by 2014’. I repeat: 'There are already notified delays', the representative Jensen's own party wrote in a note. Then my question is, what were they warned about last year, which they now think they weren't warned about last year, which provides the basis for a mistrust proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1762	I understand that this matter is unpleasant for SV. We have seen that many key SV politicians have given a significant degree of criticism of the progress and government's management of this project in the media, while they currently have a demanding job in defending a government council with which they really disagree. I understand that it is very unpleasant. It is such that the disclosure regulation concerns the government's obligation to inform the size. Unfortunately, it has been in this case that the Storting and the parties have acquired a lot of information through the media, and not through the procedure that has gone between government and accumulation. Many of this has even been driven by the few investigative journalists we have left in this country. I'm very happy that they're doing that job, and that they're continuing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1769	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1772	The duty of information is a cornerstone of our democracy. It is attached to the Constitution. It's part of what makes our democracy transparent. It shall be ensured that the decisions are good. Provision shall be made for the political debate to take place on the basis of the facts available at all times. The duty of information is what makes us a democracy. In a small country how much of the power and investigative capacity lies with the state, it is that the state is obliged to provide us with good information that is the basis for us to actually have a viable and good democracy in the future. Therefore, breach of the obligation to provide information is also very serious. Therefore, holding back information is a way of manipulating the political debate, for its own political gain, which is not in line with what are fundamental democratic values. Is it the case that the government has provided relevant information at the appropriate times? Obviously not. To the right, we thought that the question was in the grey zone as to how serious this was – until we received the implementation report that confirmed that the Stortinges treatment of the test centre was carried out on a failed basis, because the government had not been open with the information they put on at the time. After all, the entire Committee concludes in a discussion of the importance of the test centre for further scaling up: the Committee considers that the test centre is very relevant in relation to the construction of full scale CO2 cleaning in Mongstad and assumes that the evaluation of technology tests and TCM is included in the investment decision for a full scale CO2 cleaning plant in Mongstad. So what does the report on realism say in Stortinget's observation? It says: A full-scale fishing facility to be operational in the short term, i.e. the 2015 option in this report, will therefore have very limited use of the test centre, and will in practice need to be planned and built without design information from the test centre. It will be operational learning, but the investment decision will have no impact on it. The size has written a note – on a failed basis – that it could not be written if this report had been submitted. What does this report say? Well, it says it's important to point out that a full scale clean-up project to follow an aggressive schedule cannot be particularly conducive to technology development. To a large extent, one must rely on the state of the art amine technology. It says that to have a schedule, which is then 2015–2016 in this report, it is not a lunar landing project. Then it's the state of the art. With regard to the whole argument of the Prime Minister that we should spend as much money as this to create new technology and lead the world – it is not possible to realise. I do not understand that the majority of Stortings can say that this was not relevant information that Stortinget should have had in her from the professional authority that manages the investment on behalf of the state, as we made the decision on the test centre. It wouldn't have been, what's in the setting, if we had known this, and the debate in the hall would have been a completely different one. Anyone who reads the 7th May debate last year sees that there is a debate in which we agree on the ambitions, but where we wonder whether the government's timetable can be maintained. And we disapprove quite arrogantly of speeches after speeches from the position and the council when we refer to that Statoil's master plan actually says this doesn't work out. When we then have a government council sitting on a document that says that you agree with Statoil, the Stortinget is simply behind the light in view of the debate that has been held. Before we got this report, we thought it should have been better informed. It was critical that you had not received the new information. When we received this report, we saw that the government has been sitting with information that should have been given to Stortinget – at a time when the Stortinget made decisions and discussed this matter, and a unanimous increase has written something in a position that it is therefore not possible to implement if you have that schedule at the same time. I believe that for the sake of democracy, it is important that the position takes on board the importance of disclosure. Today, a new standard is set from the position on what a government can allow itself not to inform the Storting about. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1802	Right contributes to the dissemination of significant confusion about Gassnova’s recommendations to the government. In the very thorough consultation of the Energy and Environment Committee earlier this spring, Gassnova Director Bjørn-Erik Haugan said that Gassnova and Statoil have been working systematically for investment decision in 2012, but gave advice on 22 March this year to give a little better time. This confirms what the State Council itself has stated in the Stortinget, while the representative Solberg, on the other hand, believes that Gassnova made this recommendation as early as last April. My question is, what is the representative Solberg knows about Gassnova's recommendations to the government that the director of Gassnova doesn't know for himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1811	I've read through this report. Among other things, it says in the report I have just referred to, that it is believed that there is no information about the test centre that can contribute to the investment decision and design with the time that was still held on 7 May last year. There is professionally relevant information that is important for Stortingen to get. This type of assessment and indication of information is not about the completion of an establishment, it is about the objective of the Council of State to inform him of the information he holds that is relevant to the situation of the Storting. And my question back would have been – if it had been possible: what do those who are behind a remark that does not keep water in view of the debate on 7 May, and the Council of State has not informed them that what they have signed in this setting is not a professional basis for this? So that's what the professional selection, the professional body, is saying that it's not possible to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1818	As has now been well done here, extensive information has been provided on professional assessments, complications, and they advised that it is demanding, but feasible. I would like to ask the representative, Solberg, if I did not receive a response from the representative, Jensen, which was the comment from December on which he also agreed, that there is already a warning of a postponement in relation to the target of a full-scale CO2 capture plant at Mongstad by 2014. It's referred to rumors – things that have been in the papers. Point 1: A comment from the Right and the Advance Party that there are alert releases, is based on rumors and thoughts they have about it? Or does one actually mean that one has received enough information that makes it relevant? Point 2 is: if they were notified last year, what are they not notified of now that they were notified of then?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1826	It is not stated in the remark that the government has notified. The whole debate on 7 May last year – half a year before it – was about one thing: questions from the opposition about the notifications from Statoil that one could not keep the deadline. Then the government rejected it, even though it had a report. When considering short term itself, that is to say, as quickly as possible, it is said, ‘to be considered as a demanding start in 2014.’ And they say, 2015–2016, third quarter -- in order to carry out what is called a short term. It is not a moon landing project, it is not what Jens Stoltenberg – as Prime Minister – has promised us, and to which we have agreed. If we can help to ensure that we get CO2 cleaning as part of our climate policy instruments, we think it is very good. But we also know that this can quickly be the example of what we'll never do again, if it costs too much money and does not bring about new technology. On 7 May last year, we asked questions about the advice that had come from elsewhere, and the government refused – until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1835	I know the representative Solberg as a formed representative, so I ask her to solve a problem. In the evening post today, Bjørn-Erik Haugan says again that he gave his advice to the Council of State on 22 March. The representative gives the impression of something else. Does the representative mean Haugan's lying? Point two, a question: you refer to the interconnection report. On page 21 it says that it is demanding, but when you read reports, you should read all the pages. On page 69, it says that there were 13 possible technologies to realize the project within the framework laid down. Does the representative Solberg agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1842	The President would point out that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1845	I am absolutely sure that Haugan believes – and has probably also been told – that the Council came when they had completed their conclusions, but it does not hold with regard to the obligation to provide information. Because once you have received a professional report that raises serious professional doubts – even if you have not concluded with new advice in Gassnova – this should be the case with Stortinget. It may not be possible to wait for the underlying agencies to come up with their conclusions, in the light of the investigations they have made, before informing Stortinget – when you get as serious a breach of the information obligation as we see here. We're still coming back to this: the Council of State sat in the hall and then the Stortinget made assumptions for the test centre that did not agree with the review contained in this report, which is now documented that it does not hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1853	Let me first say that SV will vote against the mistrust proposal that is being put forward here, and that the Minister for Oil and Energy has the confidence of SV. So the central thing here is that the government has provided information to the Storing, such as the government's obligations under the Constitution, as the Council of State and others have gone through in their posts. But it's also important to note, as it's shown here, that the opposition has made it clear, both in comments and in public statements, that they know of significant challenges with the project. It is still available to answer the question to the Right and the Advance Party that last year they said in the form of a comment that they were alerting about expulsions. If we're going to sum up the situation briefly, I think the following can do this: Last year the government stuck to the timetable based on professional judgement that it was demanding, but possible to implement. Then put the Progress Party and the Right in a note that they're notifying about releases. This year the government changed the schedule, after a professional advice was given on 22 March. Now the opposition claims that they were not alerting about the challenges, the problems, what has arisen in the professional advice and to the Storting in the past. It is also the case that the Right Party and the Advance Party have shown distrust because of uncertainty they knew if a project they were previously against – and for purification, which they do not want from day one at other gas power plants. So, as has also been done here, more proposals have been put forward on this last occasion. Aside from the climate, there is one theme that all political debates on economics should be about in these days and in the future, namely the welfare state of Norway and Europe. And there are societies with small differences, and some other characteristics, which we should not just keep, but improve and develop further. What we need to learn from what is now happening in Europe is at least two things: firstly, the welfare state in Norway is not part of the problem, but it is part of the explanation that we have done better than many other countries. The welfare state contributes to the dignity and security of many people, but also to better economic growth, a secure economy and a large public sector, a buffer against crises. Secondly, we must learn that the welfare state must be financed, otherwise he will have major problems. If a real serious matter with the welfare state, then one must be willing to pay what it costs. One of the other things that the Right and the Advance Party are able to become a few – in addition to not being cleaned from day one at a gas power plant – is to continue a tax-free policy. It weakens the possibility of maintaining a good welfare state, but there are also very poor measures for growth and development in a crisis situation. Let's compare briefly -- for now we have a little bit of the picture from the Nordic countries, which have different governments with different political colors. The main difference between the Norwegian measures and the measures in Sweden and Denmark is that our neighbouring countries have invested quite heavily on tax relief, and we are primarily committed to investment and development measures. What are the facts? Well, while unemployment has risen in all other Nordic countries, Norway has managed to keep unemployment down through the crisis. As the only Nordic country, Norway has also been able to sustain growth in GDP — seen for a two-year period — through the crisis. And if we look at industrial production in the last five years, it reveals a sharp fall in all other Nordic countries, except Norway. Now, the right-wing government in Denmark is proposing a major cut in welfare to ensure the tax havens they have given before, while the left-hand option is that everyone has to contribute more and provide more according to their ability, in order to strengthen well-being and to be more able to improve the welfare state of the years to come. So when it comes to both the climate and the welfare state, politics plays a decisive role. The difference between the red-green here in Norway and what is currently not an alternative, but one direction, from the Right and the Progress Party, is very clear, both in climate policy and in the distribution policy and the welfare state policy. The right-hand side weakens well-being, cuts taxes that weaken his foundation, and has a less ambitious climate policy than the red-green government in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1878	Firstly, the representative Solhjell is inexcusable when he repeatedly claims that the Right Party and the Advance Party voted against the project at Mongstad. It's definitely wrong - it's just to look at the voting order in Stortinget. Then the representative is suspended in that the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about postponement of the budget – while at the same time accusing the government of not providing information. The representative of Solhell's conclusion is that we must have been informed by the government when we can be critical. What Solhell does not get is that the information we have comes from professionals outside the government system and from journalists who have dug in this. But even the head of Gassnova said in today's industry 19 October 2009 that CO2 cleaning at Mongstad would not be possible until 2015–2016 at the earliest. Based on that, we can say that it was the announcement of a postponement, because it's actually the government's professional who says it. Does the representative, Mr Solhell, understand that there is a basis for being critical of this, and at the same time say that the information has not come from the government system in staging proposals or guttering messages?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1890	What I understand is that last year there were many professional contributions from different sources that stressed in different ways that it was demanding and challenging to follow the original schedule, but that it was possible to implement it. The government must stick to the professional advice and assessments it receives. As the Council of State here has done well, the challenges were passed on at different times to the Storting. March 22nd, the recommendation came, and I find that in a row of posts here in the hall and in comments and public statements earlier, one has made it known that one is aware of and aware of challenges and problems. But only now has the government received a recommendation, and that is the basis for the new timetable that has now been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1895	In the position to which the staging representative refers, there is also a remark from the government parties. It reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People’s Party, indicate that, according to the emissions permit, full-scale CO2 capture installations will be in place by the end of 2014 and note that different solutions for their implementation are now being assessed as soon as possible.’; So the warning obviously has not reached the government parties, because they are stuck on 2014 in this setting as well. The question then is: does the representative really think that the Storting should deal with media leaks and press releases from Statoil as a basis for information between corruption and government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1910	That's exactly what I mean a not to do. That's why I find it very strange if it's such a remark that one is alert, based on media plays, leaks, and other things. I take it for granted that when the Right Party and the Advance Party said they were alerting about a postponement, they refer to them being alerted about problems, challenges, and were aware of professional insecurity around it, just as the government party had, as had been done well for having passed through to the Storting in different contexts. March 22nd, the recommendation came from Gassnova. It is after that that there was a proposal for a new timetable, which is the basis for the debate we are now having.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1918	I have to say it is amazing – or perhaps rather amazing – to hear representatives from the government parties who have such a simple relationship with the information obligation that it is considered to be fulfilled with regard to professional reports from the government's underlying bodies only with a notice that a project is considered to be demanding or challenging. But my question is more about SV's political position in this matter. When the Soria Moria declaration arrived, it was said that the gas power struggle had now ended, it was purification from day one. One year later, when the Mongstad compromise came, it was postponed by 1460 days. Now it's 3,000 days off, and maybe even more. The question to the representative, Mr Solhell, must be: is there a great deal to be done in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1925	Now, I suppose, the unlikely representative Solhjell is in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1928	Thank you, President! 'Stas' is not the expression I use about my political function ever. But important – yes, very important, because it is part of changing society in a number of important fields, not least in environmental policy. As we have gone through earlier in the debate, it would not be a Mongstad project to discuss if the Right and the Progress Party had got multiples for their environmental policy, because they have not been for us to clean up gas power plants in Norway. There are also a number of other areas of environmental policy that have been adjusted and markedly changed – on renewable energy, on transport, not least we have once again taken on board international environmental policy in order to achieve international objectives and stand up from 2005. So it's very important in my opinion that SV is in government, because I think there's an important reason for the improvement in environmental policy over the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1933	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1936	On May 25, 1961, President John F. Kennedy gave a speech for a United States Congress. It's in the speech he launches the vision of putting a man on the moon before this decade is out. Still on today's day, Kennedy's words tell us: ‘Not a single space project in this epoch will be more impressive for humanity, or more important for the exploration of space, and no one will be so difficult or expensive to achieve.’ A little over a year later, on September 12, 1962, Kennedy speaks at Rice University in Houston. There he emanates the literally amazing vision of his like this: «We choose to travel to the moon – we choose to travel to the moon in this decade and do these other things – not because it is easy, but because it is difficult! We set sail in this new sea because it is new knowledge to pick up and new rights to win, and they must be won and used in the service of all mankind." Why do we still let ourselves be impressed by these words? Well, because this is politics on its very most visionary. Maybe this is the most famous example of ambitions that there and then resemble science fiction, but that almost inhumanely turned into reality, and thus also changed the reality and view of what politics can achieve. Our Prime Minister has, as you know, called the Mongstad project for our moon landing. That's what he deserves. It's about setting a bold goal, being brave and in Kennedy's spirit wanting to do something big, not because it's easy, but precisely because it's difficult. One might wonder if the opposition in this case seems to be more important to create political games than to bet in order to create the necessary innovations to save the climate. I fear in that case that in the long run this will lead to a culture no one is worthy of, where one does not dare to set the big goals. Politicians must lead. Our responsibility is to make demands and set great goals for the benefit of the country and its inhabitants. One example is the construction of Bergensbanen. If the politicians of the day had not had the courage to make difficult investments, Norway’s population and business patterns had looked quite different. Another example is the formation of Statoil, where a unanimous decision in the Stortinget on 14 June 1972 established the company. The motivation behind the decision was to ensure Norwegian participation in the oil extraction from the start. The politicians of the day would build a national oil economy, and they would have government governance with it for the benefit of the country. If the politicians of the day hadn't known where they wanted to go, Norway would have been quite a different place from where we are today. The path to the unknown is not followed by a known map. If we don't dare to bet, even if the way forward to the goal is unknown, we won't get any further. But, to borrow a well-known phrase from the American space program, "Houston, we have a problem." The original schedule for Mongstad has proved to be difficult to hold. But this is nothing new for Stortinget. It has always been known that this is a demanding and big project, and the government has kept Stortinget informed about the complexity of the project. The obligation to provide information is about the very nervous system of our parliamentary system. This goes both ways. Any government depends on a trust fund in this room. Conversely, the Storting is dependent on a good knowledge base of the decisions they are invited to take. Information breach claims are the sole assessor of the Storting. We are sincere when we believe that the information obligation has been complied with. Of course, it is always a matter of when and to what extent when we debate the government's obligation to provide information to the Storting, but we, the majority of the population, consider that information and information, knowledge and assessments have been given to the Storing in a way that does not conflict with the Basic Law's words: the necessary information has been communicated. We believe that this is not a basis for distrust. But finally, if we raise our eyes a little bit, what's happy, when we ignore the process, the game, the whole thing around, is that we at least agree on the goal – that we need a full-scale sewage treatment plant in Mongstad. It is good that we still have politicians and a prime minister who set themselves bold goals. Our voters, and in this case also the climate, deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1967	When one heard the post, one would almost believe it was the Environment Minister who had written it – it was full of tumultuous words, but quite irrelevant to what is at the heart of the matter. The obligation to provide information is at the heart of the matter: to what extent has the government informed of both the positive and negative aspects with which they have become familiar in the project, while the Stortinge has been invited to make decisions and to grant money for it? The opposition has expressed its view. I would ask the representative of the magnificence to sit in a situation where he himself sits in opposition – if he would be pleased to be invited to grant 25 billion. SEK to two full-scale sewage treatment plants without knowing that the trade union organisation of the government recommended not to have more than one, if he would be satisfied to be informed that what could be a revolutionary big change in the project, namely that we get a step-by-step cleaning instead of full-scale cleaning, and that the year is not met, is only referred to by one line in the landfill proposal rather than to the extent that it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1974	In this case we have had a lot of laps in Stortinget. We had it in January last year, we had it in the revised national budget, and we had it in the state budget last year. We have had many good and thorough debates where various issues have been raised, and there has been a great public change of words. So this has not been a debate or a procedure where there has been a lack of counter-representation. There has been a lot of counter-representation, and it has also emerged in the propositions that the government has put forward, that this is demanding, that this is challenging, but that we have an ambitious goal and want to achieve it by 2014. Then Gassnova gives a new advice at the end of March, which the government immediately follows up and comes to the Stortinget in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1979	At least there is something atoning for a central party politician who picks up his ideals from Kennedy's United States, a country where the Senter Party would never be able to exist, and who picks up his ideals from the time the Bergensbanen was adopted, when the Senter Party did not exist either. Joda, I see something positive in the post. However, to sum up the obligation to provide information only in the expression ‘required information has been communicated’ does not hold. The Frøiland Committee, which belongs to the 2000s and not to the 1990s, as the representative Helga Pedersen said, says the following about the obligation to provide information: ‘The Committee would argue that the government must be obliged to make serious professional counter-representations appear in the case even if they are contrary to the Government’s proposal.’ That's the definition that the Storting has now given its support to, i.e. during the previous period, and still applicable. Serious professional counter-representations are not hidden behind such terms as ‘requiring’, they must be simply communicated as they arise professionally, rather than through political rewriting. That is the duty of disclosure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1991	We have all been sitting and reading about the disclosure obligation and the practice of the disclosure obligation until we have been tired and rented in the last few days. I think we all see that we are totally dependent on good and solid information flows between government and growth. We believe that it has been in this case – that there has been a good and solid flow of information, that the Council of State has given assessments in different directions, that he has dared to problem, that counter-representations have reached public space. We simply have different assessments of whether the information obligation has been complied with, and we are confident that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e1998	The centre part is tired and tired of reading about the information obligation after having done a lot in the past. I understand that they're going to be when things go wrong, as they are today. I just want to point out that the information obligation also has to do with a certain formation in the relationship between the opposition and the position. The left has sent three letters to the Central Party Council this week. We have not received any answers. We have not even received the answer that we cannot answer. There is a tone to the opposition chosen by the Central Party Council. In the daily newspaper today, Labour Party Helga Pedersen says that the Council of State ‘has handled the matter in a good manner. He has provided the Storting with relevant and correct information at the right time». Does the parliamentary leader of the Central Party think that not responding to letters is a good way to deal with the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2013	As I said in my speech, the duty of information is the very nerve of our parliamentary system. We believe that it has been observed. When I said that I was a little tired of discussing the duty of information, it was because I think it's a pity that when we have a discussion about Mongstad, we don't discuss the project and what we share – which I also understand Left is part of – we want to achieve, that instead we discuss the goal. I feel that this is becoming more and more a kind of political game, where you forget what the goal is. The goal is full-scale clean-up of CO2 at Mongstad. In the case of letters, there have been several letters between bulking and government. There has been consultation of the Energy and Environment Committee, consideration has been given to the Financial Committee and evaluation has been carried out by the Control and Constitutional Committee. It is not a matter that has been dealt with more thoroughly at Stortinget this spring than just this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2025	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2028	An overall opposition concludes in the setting that Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, has not fulfilled his obligation to provide information to Stortinget in the context of the full-scale CO2 management project at Mongstad. For several months, the Council of State has been in possession of reports and recommendations from Gassnova on the progress and arrangements of the project which violate the permit and other premises on the basis of which the Storting joined the government's original plans. When this is answered in the media from the government parties that Stortinget has received all the relevant information in a timely manner, and repeated here in the hall, it is quite strange, when we have witnessed in the last few days how the council has been pressured to gradually lighten the veil, and thus demonstrated with all the desired clarity that there was a lot of relevant information that Stortinget wanted, but that Stortinget did not get in good time. And it's no use saying, as we heard the Central Party's parliamentary leader now state, that the hearing has provided more information. Why did we have the hearing? This is because the Storting has not received information about these reports in time and has been informed of what the obligation to provide information requires. The reality of the environmental policy in this case is that the government's plan for CO2 management of highly polluting gas power plants is fragmented and exposed for an indefinite period, both at Kårstø and at Mongstad. The parliamentary seriousness is linked to the breach of information obligations towards the Stortinget for which the Council of State is responsible. It is a central part of Storting's responsibility to exercise control over the fulfilment by state councils of their information obligations. The size has been very careful with this ever since the councils, against their will, were forced to meet here in the hall in 1884. I want to warn the government parties and the Prime Minister not to authorize the practice we have seen in this matter as a kind of standard for the future fulfilment of the information obligation. This does not keep goal, and I think that if you look beyond this matter, the whole Storting will agree with that. We believe that the setting demonstrates a clear breach of the information obligation. The Christian People's Party therefore chooses, as a consequence of this and in the light of the great and serious matter involved, to promote the now raised motion of censure. It has been carefully assessed by us, for such proposals are not promoted in vain. But the Storting cannot leave such a standard for the fulfilment of the information obligation. The key fact in this case is that in 2007, the Stortinget was presented with a detailed timetable for full-scale CO2 management in Mongstad, which meant completion by the end of 2014. The timetable was promoted by the government and laid down in the implementation agreement and in the emissions permit and was the basis for the decisions taken by the Stortinget. As there were clear technical objections to the implementation of the plan on this basis and clear recommendations from the project managers on a different progress and a smaller extent of CO2 management, this should have been submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, clearly and without undue delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2055	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2058	The allegations of a breach of the information obligation are now clearly rejected by the government's spokesmen and by the government's party fraction here in Stortinget, so I am not commenting on that further. I'm just referring to it. I would like to raise another side of the matter with the Høybråten. He has previously said here that the postponement of purification is a gigantic step backwards for the environment. Line Henriette Hemdal, a spokeswoman for the Christian People's Party in environmental matters, was asked in May 2009 by Bergen's Official Journal: ‘ [[...]] And then she said, ‘Yes, if necessary’. Then my question is: can the representative now be kind and explain: what is the basis for what is the necessary postponement for the Christian People's Party in this matter, when Hemdal speaks out as she has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2074	I understand very well that the representative of Kolberg will not go into the argument against the basis of mistrust, because what the government parties have done here today is primarily to postulate and declare that there is no basis for the mistrust proposal on the breach of the information obligation. It's not argument, it's simply a statement. The report submitted to the Ministry of Oil and Energy two days ago — except for publicity — shows that the short-term work was carried out in relation to only one of the turbines, with only partial compliance with the emissions permit, and thus a clear breach of the Storting's assumptions. That report should be known to the Stortinget many months ago. That's what the Storting here is discussing, and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2081	I did not find the answer from the representative Højbrätt on the previous question to be particularly clear – on the contrary. Int. S No 206 for 2008-2009 from April last year, the Christian People's Party wrote that CO2 cleaning can be the most timely in 2014–2016. So last April, they wrote this in a setting for Stortinget. Then there are at least two questions. The one thing is, what made the Christian People's Party at that time have the basis to assume that it would be a postponement, when they now claim that there was no basis for believing that it could be postponed? Then there are also temptations to ask: Why did not the Christian People's Party use the encroachment 'gigantic retreat for the environment' if the postponement they were then open to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2091	Let me say that I am very sorry that Bård Vegar Solhjell and I now stand on the opposite side in the fight against highly polluting gas power plants. It is unfortunately a development that has taken place under the red-green government, and that in the light of history will not be a particularly honorable development for SV. I'm going to answer the question: Of course, the Christian People's Party has always wanted a development in which we had cleaning from day one. SV played off the card during the government negotiations in 2005 and has since been on a glide flight away from the requirement for full clean-up. The backbone of the environment is that today – 18 June 2010 – we cannot say anything for sure about when it comes to cleaning, and whether there will be cleaning, neither on Kårstø nor on Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2098	I have to return to the issues raised by the Workers' Party and SV in their replies. The representative of Kolberg referred to Line Henriette Hemdal's statements, where she said that if necessary, they will open for postponement until 2018–2019. Then, the representative Solhjell clearly points to the setting, where the Christian People's Party opens up for 2014–2016, with low shoulders, both in an election situation and in a rollover position. When the government comes and says that you need a little bit more time, there's a giant step back -- what's the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2105	This case started with the centerpartiet and SV wanted full cleaning from day one. We were supposed to have full cleaning at Kårstø from 2009. It's now completely in blue. Then the Senterpartiet and SV agreed to clean up from 2014. It has now been launched, not until 2015 and 2016 – by the representative of Slagsvold Vedum. No, the government is now unable to say when. That means it's fired indefinitely. That's what's the giant backsliding of the environment. And I actually thought that the Center Party, which in its time put its tabhurettes in place to stop highly polluting gas power plants, could agree with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2110	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2114	The climate challenge is the biggest challenge facing our planet, and the environment is one of the most important issues we have been set to manage. The Bondevik II government, with the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, went off because of an environmental issue. Then Jens Stoltenberg stood at the head of this room to throw the government and give three new concessions to gas power plants. We built Kårstø, and it has still not been cleaned there despite the promise that this would happen in 2009. It shows that the main priority of this government is to build gas power plants and not have cleaning. The priority of the left has always been renewable energy in front of fossil energy. But we have mainly supported this project in terms of whether it turns out that it has been done on a failed basis and that we have spent huge sums of taxpayers' money. Another aspect here is the willingness to actually do what you've been told to do. I have followed the consultation to the Energy and Environment Committee, and I was surprised to see that the Council of State was eager to stress that the timetable could not be kept due to technical challenges and that the technology had not come far enough. I thought this was a moon landing, I thought it was a political pushing of the technology, but it's certainly not, and I'm going to explain that. The Gassnova report of 27 May 2009 states that full clean-up is possible by 2014 if the gas power plant is run on half capacity. The Left Group has asked the Council of State what he was doing in the light of these recommendations, and what he did to ensure that Statoil would not fully operate the plant. We have also sent a number of other questions to the Minister of Oil and Energy because we are not represented in the Environment Committee and were not given the opportunity to ask our questions there. But we have not received a response, we have not even received an explanation as to why we have not received an answer. And now the entire project is being pushed into an investment decision to be presented in 2014. It's vague, it's non-committal, and it's for our part the same thing as saying that there's no cleaning of the gas power plant in Mongstad. In retrospect, it is easy to see that it can quickly become as it might have been added from the first day, and that was my prediction. We in the Left have been constructive co-players of the majority and of the government in this matter, despite our scepticism towards the whole project initially. Now we meet with a boundless arrogance. I have to say that I am simply disappointed in the way you act, and that you are not interested in informing the Storting in advance of such a big and important matter. This has to do with Storting's confidence in the members of the government. The Minister for the Environment said that we have our own political system in Norway where there are no alternatives. There are no political systems where there are no alternatives, but many socialists have believed that such systems exist. Parliamentarism is about having power, but respect for its people. It is about taking decisions that have been informed. It's about some options that show alternatives. In this case, politics and Parliament are being ignored. You've been running an election campaign and telling all the citizens that you should do something you didn't know you could not do. I am startled by the tone the government parties have chosen in this debate – I am perhaps most apprehensive about the Minister for the Environment. I wonder if there really is now a willingness to implement this. I started by saying that the climate challenge is the biggest challenge our planet faces. Answering with a moon landing may seem like someone is trying to get away from the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2136	We heard now, and we have heard before, that the representative Skei Grande is using very strong words in this debate. She just did it, she used again the expression "arrogance." She told the NRK yesterday that you tricked the voters. You've gone into the election campaign and made a moon landing that you didn't know you could handle. This is contempt for the citizens of this country, and it is contempt for Parliament. I guess it might not be possible to say that. What's the point? Of course, it is, as this whole debate is characterized by, to draw a picture that the government has known something that you would not want to announce, and that you have abused it in an election campaign – despite the statements that have now been made. Then it's just to ask: what is the representative of Skei Grande and Left that the government has not known, when we have now learned that Gassnova has said that it is only now that one has the basis to say that this should be stopped? What is it left that can form the basis and background for such strong words?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2147	I stand for all the words. I am glad that the representative of Kolberg spent his time repeating them. What we see here is that the government has gone into the campaign and know that this they didn't make up for the assumptions they had made, they knew that in the election campaign. The voters have chosen the wrong premise, and we have also dealt with matters in Stortinget on the wrong premise. That should have been understood by the positions. Then they should have chosen this day to take a slightly more humble attitude than attacking us because we feel cheated by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2154	I record that the representative Skei Grande uses in many ways the very strongest expressions in this matter. The representative Skei Grande also used strong expressions about the political side of the case. Very roughly summed up, one can say that the Left and Christian People's Party criticizes the government and the red-green because they spend too little money on CO2 cleaning too late and on too few gas power stations. Now, when it comes to this motion of censure, in an alliance with two parties who roughly think we spend too much money on it too quickly and on too many gas power plants – to sum up the political debate of the last few years. My question to Skei Grande really goes on politics: Does the representative Skei Grande believe that her view when it comes to CO2 cleaning of gas power plants in Norway would have more impact if it were the Right and the Progress Party that ruled and put in government in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2167	I have to say that I am probably sharing the Swedish National Government's statement that the most difficult bend to get things done here is the Workers' Party, with which SV has chosen to sit in government. It is clear that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have been united on very many important environmental issues. It is clear to me that it is strange that the government here is pushing forward, through its poor information to Parliament, an alliance where the Progress Party and the Left stand together in an environmental matter. There is pressure from the government – it is not pushed forward by the Left!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2174	It is mentioned here that the left has used strong words about the postponement of cleaning in Mongstad. It makes me think one year back when we had a debate in this room about the Mongstad project, and the waiting leaders of the Energy and Environment Committee, Gunnar Kvassheim, said that ‘experience indicates that things take time’. Further: ‘Nothing gets cheaper and nothing goes faster than originally planned.’ And on the other hand, ‘But StatoilHydro has, among other things, in recordings, contributed to one’s being able to say that it is more likely to go out.’ Today, the Left is both surprised and annoyed by the release, while one for one year back is expecting a postponement. Which one of these stories does Skei Grande feel most comfortable with?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2193	This day has had some wonderful entries. One of the amazing features is that government parties are bringing forward old quotes, where we have also expressed distrust of whether progress was going to last. What has happened is that the government in all these debates has said it should hold. When the government accuses the parties in the environmental committee of commenting that it may not hold, it is that the government parties have not responded to those comments. Then it has to be because they've doubted that it's actually like this. So here it's used that we've heard rumors that this might not hold, as an argument against the government being informed. The government has not informed us. You have argued against these opinions. You haven't answered these comments. You've actually doubted that these statements are right. That's why we're in the situation we're in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2203	The representative of Skei Grande probably knows that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2206	I know that, but sometimes you get a little annoyed, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2211	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2215	The budget is currently examining the revised national budget. We do that in a period when the international economy is on its way up after the strongest economic downturn since World War II. The rise is strongest in emerging economies like India and China. But also in Europe we have seen a growing growth. That doesn't mean, however, that the danger is over. Recent evidence has shown that there are still serious problems, not least in the European economy. The nature of the crisis has changed. What was a financial crisis has become a job crisis. Unemployment is increasing and is now very high in many of our neighbouring countries. In Europe, 23 million people are unemployed, i.e. that almost one in ten of those who want a job do not get a job. And we know that once the unemployment rate has increased, it can easily snap and stay at a high level for a long time. This is a major social problem, but it is also a major economic problem. Unemployment is wasted. It weakens the growth capacity of the economy, and it contributes to an even greater budget deficit. In addition to the job crisis, we have a debt crisis. Many countries have huge deficits, they have incurred very large debts. The state debt is approaching the unmanageable in several countries. In the long term, this can undermine the very welfare model in these countries. It is serious that a state is not able to pay interest and instalments on its debt. The large debt pushes interest rates. Those who have borrowed money may risk not getting the money back. The contributions and actions of the International Monetary Fund and the EU address the short-term problems we have seen in several countries. But the fundamental challenge, the fundamental problem, is still there. A large budget deficit of 12-13 p.m. for several countries, the national product means that every four kronor they use over the State budget is a borrowed krona. It can't go on like that. In the long term, countries must also ensure that revenue corresponds to expenditure. Therefore, many countries have announced measures to improve public finances and strengthen confidence. Several countries will go through difficult times with significant cuts. In particular, this is serious because it happens just before they enter a period of an ageing population. It makes the situation extra demanding. It's a pleasure to have more older people. But there is also increased expenditure on pensions, health and care. Starting this period of large deficits and debt, it makes the challenges even bigger in the coming years. And not least it's demanding because the reserves are used up. If we now have a new economic international setback, many countries will have little or nothing to offer. Then they're very vulnerable. The high debt forces many countries to tighten up even if unemployment is high and rising. Then the result can easily be even higher unemployment. High debt causes many countries to lose their economic autonomy. I have always believed that the right-hand side's demand for lasting and comprehensive reductions in the level of taxation is irresponsible. Today this requirement is more irresponsible than ever. Norway has so far come better through the international economic recession than most other countries. We have Europe's lowest leave. Unemployment in Norway is low, both historically and internationally. Norway’s starting point is good. We have huge natural resources, and that has given us opportunities. We've used those possibilities very well. We have managed the large revenues from oil and gas operations in a sound and good manner. We have had good supervision of the banking and financial industries and good regulation of this sector. The massive measures we put in place to combat the effects of the crisis have worked in Norway. Some said that the measures were too small and were too late. But the experience shows that they came in time, and were strong enough. Nevertheless, what is now happening internationally will also have an impact on Norway. We sell gas to the United Kingdom and rockfish to Spain and Portugal. In every way, we're part of an international economy. If things don't go well in other countries, they'll hit us too. We cannot protect Norwegian business and Norwegian industry from what is happening in the world. We can't force people to build ships or make massive state purchases of fish and metals. But what we can do is set up policies so that the effects are mitigated. By keeping an order in our own budgets, we avoid pressure on interest rates and exchange rates, and by building up reserves, so that we have money if the times are going to be bad again, we can deposit money when needed. That is exactly what we are doing in the budget that is being dealt with today. The budget contributes to a stable and good development of the Norwegian economy in the future. We reduce the use of oil money by increasing tax revenue – because we have succeeded in getting more people to work and fewer unemployed. In the revision of the budget, the government adds up to a use of oil revenue of 17 billion. kr lower than the 2010 national budget. The distance to the 4 pst path is thus estimated to be barely 26 billion. kr, towards almost 45 br. kr in the national budget. It's an important step in the right direction. Through income policy cooperation, we also contribute to the security of the Norwegian economy and jobs. This year's wage settlement has provided room for an additional lifting for many women's pensions, and this has taken place within a responsible financial framework. In this way, we are involved in securing Norwegian jobs. In Norway, we are in the lucky situation that we have been able to negotiate how much wages will increase. In many other countries, they discuss how much pay is to be reduced. In particular, we contribute to strengthening the Norwegian economy by contributing to conversion and innovation. In the Government Cooperation for Work, we get a lot of input about this. The budget includes, inter alia: a package of measures for the yard and equipment supplier industry contributing to job security. These industries are in a difficult situation. Many shipyards are soon out of order. The large offshore workshops are only allowed to use parts of the capacity. We're at risk of large-scale lay-offs and redundancies. This is the background for the paint package. We're going to stimulate profitable projects. We're going to facilitate the conversion. We need to ensure the further development of competences. We're not going to keep living in unprofitable businesses. But we can help with conversion that can help make them profitable. This is the active industrial policy. The government presented the revised budget for CO2 management in Mongstad. We have announced that we will spend a little longer time on the full-scale part of the project. The adjustment of the plan is necessary to make the best possible use of the project. The investment base must be reworked and quality assured for such a large and demanding project. This delay is not something we want. I understand the impatience and disappointment that we have to postpone. We are also impatient. But the ambitions to realize CO2 management in Mongstad have always been challenging. We clearly mentioned that in 2007. The challenges we face are big and complex. We're going to build a plant of a kind and a size that's never been built before. It has to be carried out within a refinery already in operation, and we have to deal with any health and environmental effects. We do not want to push forward a timetable that poses a great risk to a bad project. We're going to build a facility that works in a good way, and that others can learn from and build on. It is better with a good project a little later than a bad project a little earlier. If we spend billions of dollars on a project that is not good enough, we can instead help to scare others from investing in the capture and storage of CO2, and that is not the intention. The Government has provided the Stortinget with the relevant information related to the government’s assessment of full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the vote believes that the information provided by the government to the Storting is a sound basis for the budgetary decisions made in line with the information obligation. In the significant work that remains before the investment base can be completed and presented to the Storting, the government will return to the Storing in an ordinary way. I note that the opposition parties have promoted a motion of censure against the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen. I am pleased that representatives of the majority of the Stortinget in this debate have made it clear that the information obligation has been met and that the Council of State has the confidence of the Stortinge. The work done in Mongstad is important. The government wants offensive solutions to climate problems, both internationally and nationally. This spring we have contributed to an agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation in developing countries. This is where we can get the largest and the fastest cuts in emissions. We need to follow up on efforts to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions, and we are working to bring forward better technologies for the capture and storage of CO2. About half of the world's CO2 emissions come from large sources such as power plants and industrial plants. We have to be able to do something about these big releases. Therefore, the capture and storage of CO2 is so important to reduce CO2 emissions from large emission sources. Work at Mongstad is our main contribution to developing and implementing technologies that reduce such emissions. The technology center is under construction. It arouses international interest, and when it's finished, it's the greatest and most advanced of its kind in the world. This is also confirmed by Shell and South African Sasol being the owner and involved in the development of the technology. Climate problems can only be solved by taking joint responsibility from the world, not least by jointly developing carbon capture and storage technologies. Norway is one of the leading drivers in this work. We still have to be. That is why it is important that we succeed in the technology project at Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2293	In political quarters this morning, the prime minister could be heard almost boasting that Sigbjørn Johnsen had survived five mistrust proposals – it is a bit special, so far, to boast of it. But I think it might be nice to go through the story a little bit. First of all, none of them – I have otherwise just been able to find four of these mistrust proposals – expressed the criticism of an overall opposition. Two of them were rather on the contrary just a single party standing behind. In the case of the other two who mattered, and who had a greater part of the opposition behind them in the Storting, Sigbjørn Johnsen acted with a considerable degree of humility toward Stortinget. He was sorry, he took notice of things, he showed humility – a completely different behavior from the one we have seen today from Riis-Johansen State Council and far from the rest of the government. Does the Prime Minister still think that this is a real basis for comparison?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2302	The comparison is absolutely relevant, because the claim was that because of a mistrust proposal, it is almost evidence that the Council of State is weakened. So my point was this: that a minority on the Storing, the opposition on the Storing, does not trust a government council, does not mean that the council is weak. On the contrary, the opposition always wants the state councils to go off — yes, they actually believe that the whole government should go off at any time. The majority disagree with the minority i. And the experience with Sigbjørn Johnsen is that you can get a lot of mistrust suggestions against yourself, they get discouraged, and the Council of State, what to say, lives long as a councillor and often comes back – perhaps not often – as Sigbjørn Johnsen has done. The experience with Sigbjørn Johnsen is that many mistrust proposals do not mean a short political life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2309	The duty of information is an important instrument in our democracy. Breaking the obligation to provide information means that a very large – but not sufficient – majority in this will feel that the decision-making process has not been well founded. The vote will take place, and the report we received only two days ago will tell us that what is in place from a joint committee cannot be realized with the timetable that is. But what has happened during this debate is that the position has taken the rather arrogant and arrogant tone of this motion of censure, and that the Labour Party's parliamentary leader has redefined the obligation of information as understood by the Frøiland Committee, and believes that because Statoil's report was known, the information was given to the Stortinget. Does the Prime Minister agree with this? Is it Statoil that is the State, or is it the Prime Minister who is responsible for the disclosure?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2316	Statoil is not the state. Statoil is a listed company with also private owners. The obligation to provide information is an essential part of our parliamentary system. The obligation to provide information has been met and the Storting believes that the obligation to provide information has been complied with as it should be followed. The Riis-Johansen Council of State explained in detail, both in writing and orally, how the government has informed the Stortinget on various occasions on many crossroads. It has provided the Storting with the necessary decision-making basis for the Stortinget to take the necessary decisions. What the Frøiland Committee said was that if conditions ‘were considered to be generally known, the government would not initially be obliged to disclose it separately’. So the Master Plan for Statoil was widely known, and it was debated. But in addition, the government presented the management of the master plan in the revised national budget, and that has been the basis for the information we have given to the Stortinget, which we have explained in various large-scale documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2323	This is the second time in a week that government councils in the Prime Minister's government are subjected to very sharp criticism from half the Stortinge on issues related to disclosure and fulfilment. I would therefore like to ask a fundamental question to the Prime Minister, who is thus independent of the specific issues raised by the Stortinget this week, but which is linked to what kind of standard prime minister wants it to be on the fulfilment of the information obligation by the Councils. What kind of guidance will the Prime Minister give to his Governments on the content and requirements of the Constitution regarding the fulfilment of the information obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2330	I want to be concerned about communicating to all the government councils, and I also know that the state councils themselves are concerned about, that they are going to give the Storting all the relevant information the size needed to make decisions on a good basis. The government has done that, the state councils have done that, and so the Riis-Johansen Council has explained how on many occasions we have provided the Stortinget with a basis for decision. For example: these different reports: it all started with this master plan from Statoil. So it's pointed out to it, it's referred to in the revised national budget last year that we wanted to look at alternative solutions. The main conclusion of Gassnova through several reports was that it wanted to look at a step-by-step approach. That's what I'm referring to in the state budget last fall. Also in connection with the new aging just before Christmas we showed that we had to come back with a comprehensive review of the documents and reports and the work that was now going on between Statoil and Gassnova. And then the conclusion comes in winter, and then we put it in front of the Stortinget. So the disclosure obligation has been met, as the Council of State has explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2337	It is not just the Minister for Oil and Energy who has commented on this matter. The Prime Minister has also commented on Mongstad many times. He was also in a debate in Redaktion EN with the former leader of Left Lars Sponheim, who asked the Prime Minister: Can you say with 100 pst. the certainty that the agreement you have now concluded is so strong that there will be an installation in 2014? Then the prime minister said yes, and there are three reasons for that. We have an agreement, we have started spending money from day one, and I expect that the bulk of the population will in any case ensure that this is implemented. Is it the Stortinget that has opposed the Prime Minister? Is there two of the other things that have gone wrong, or should the Prime Minister have taken any other reservations before he gave the country's citizens a guarantee on Norwegian TV?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2346	A total increase meant that we could get to it within the set deadlines. There is nothing wrong with the agreement, and there is nothing wrong with the Storting's willingness to grant money. We've allocated a significant number of billions to get this in place. The problem is that our leading engineers, our leading experts in Gassnova, say that if we were to continue with the pace we had, we would get a bad project -- a project that might not be implemented, a project that would not be a good environmental project. Then we say that instead of investing prestige in one day, we invest prestige in that it's going to be a good project. It is much better to have a good project a little later that stands there as a great project for the environment, than a bad and expensive project a little earlier, which is not a good environmental project. Then I believe it is important that when we get new information, new heavy professional recommendations, then there is no money on it, not the agreements it says, but it simply says that when the engineers and experts say that it is better to take some more time, we listen to them to get a good project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2351	The starting point is, what is new information in this context? The Gassnova report in May 2009 made it clear that if one were to do as the government would then, namely build something in 2014, no experience would have been gained from the test facility that one was to build – i.e., one had to build independently of operating experience from the test facility. Now the government is adding up to gain operational experience. That means that the government has changed its policy. It is good, but there is nothing to suggest that new information has come to light that that operational experience is not the reason. We knew about it a year ago, or to say it like this, the government knew about it. The size was not informed. The government also talks about the Stortinget being informed that there will be a step-by-step cleaning that might be assessed. However, the report of 2 October says that it is not just a step-by-step cleaning, but that it will only be in place in the third quarter of 2015. So it's not going to be a full-scale clean-up, and it's going to be two years late. Does the Prime Minister think that the Stortinget has actually received the relevant information regarding the ambitions the Prime Minister has communicated to Stortinget at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2365	Yeah, I mean it. It has been informed that you are working on a step-by-step solution, and that that is what Gassnova had presented in his reports. That's the Stortinges informed about. And yes, we've been informed, including last year's revision, that we were looking at alternative solutions. But the most important new information that came, it came in March of this year, so Gassnova made the recommendation that they thought it was no longer possible to implement it within the set deadlines. It was Gassnova's message to us in March 2010, and then we spent a few weeks dealing with that recommendation, and concluded immediately. That's the new information, and it's also brought to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2370	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2373	There are many aspects of Norwegian society that are tempting to correct in the revised budget. However, I realize that taking a rematch at all points in the middle of the year is not particularly appropriate. But in one area, it is both right and important – yes, in fact vital – that we fight back, as this can save lives. Nearly 5 000 drug users are in queue for treatment. The actual number is even larger as the system pushes out of the list those who themselves have a special desire for treatment. In fact, freedom of choice is not real for a drug addict. Our country wrote yesterday that a rapid monitoring of some treatment providers shows that there are very many treatment sites available. Some places even pay out unemployment benefits to staff on leave because the treatment centre goes for half of the machine, and in the worst case it is laid down, which we have seen recently. So the government is willing to spend money on some people going on unemployment benefits, while others are going down. The Advance Party shall allocate 150 million in the revised budget. NOK extra for the purchase of treatment facilities. If this had been adopted today, Jon and many others could get the help they so much want and need. I have spent the last few weeks desperately trying to help Jon, who is very undernourished and tired after rushing from the age of 9. After a lot of mass he got a place on detoxification for two weeks. But after detoxification, nothing was expected, except for a hostel with several other active drug users. Alone, miles from the shelter, with abstinences, several days without sleep and without a penny in my pocket – it was just for me to notice that Jon has again lost the fight to get help. Do the government really think Jon will be able to stay free? Is it really a policy that drug addicts should be detoxified again, but not helped on to a drug-free life? The municipality says that it is not easy to obtain a treatment site. Well, I say, there's a lot of free space. Yes, the municipality admits, but the health companies decide where and when to do so. So this is about the lack of appropriations. I'm angry at the municipality, which is not helping Jon at all, but at the end of the day, I hold the government responsible for Jon and several thousand others fighting for life every single day. They don't go on trains, they can't stand to protest, and their rights are broken every day. From the situation we have today, and as it has been for five years with the red-green government, it is understandable that proposals for the distribution of free heroin come. Most people lose any confidence in the Norwegian Russo. But Jon can't stand heroin. It makes him sicker and sicker, both physically and mentally. Jon needs treatment, and he needs it now! It is simply provocative to sit and listen to Torgeir Micaelsen's contributions, highlighting the importance for the government of presenting a strictly revised budget that addresses the economic situation in Europe. So the government is proud that you don't give a single extra crown to russian care, even though you know that several thousand people need help, even though you know that there's free capacity, and even though you know that some of these people will die while they're waiting. The government is paying the budget at the expense of those who are sick and homeless. According to the Minister of Finance, we are very privileged in Norway. Too many people, this is right. The problem is that this isn't right for everyone, and instead of lifting these up, you choose to ignore them. I find that the Torgeir Micasen in his reply to Hans Olav Syversen about just this completely overlooks the very question and just refers to what has been granted in recent years. It actually doesn't help the sick and the homeless now. The government knows that, Mikalsen knows that, and the Minister of Finance knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2394	We can agree that Norway is in a quite unique situation, at least if we look at Europe. Our state finances are strong, the oil carries us on a gold chair, and popularly can illustrate the difference by showing that Greece uses 10 pst. of the public budgets on interest rates, while Norway receives more than 15 pst. of the public expenditure covered by the Retirement Fund’s return. We have reason to be satisfied, but the road to self-satisfaction is short. Europe has the challenge. It has been lying there for a long time, but no one has wanted to see it clearly. Public expenditure has grown sharply, while competitiveness and growth capacity in Europe have not evolved accordingly. Europe needs to find a policy for growth. Then all stones have to be turned around, and new solutions have to be found. Red-green policy meets this with dogmatic attitudes towards taxation, migration and new solutions. If that is something you can say with great certainty, it is that we are not therefore good advisers for Europe either. A revised budget is not a rematch. We're not doing a huge amount of tax in the revision, but we're concerned that tax does not punish the business that responds to the signals that the policy gives. That is why we propose that the companies that made environmental investments after the government broke the Constitution should not come out worse than those that did not. The new regulations of financial supervision on lending to housing mean greater savings, especially among young people, and we will stimulate this through an improved BSU. Tax is important. Public welfare must be financed and the contribution allocated. A high tax morality is what Norway should take care of and restrain by constantly focusing on the tax system. Tax costs to collect, it creates new biases, and it can destroy or stimulate growth, value creation, jobs and well-being. Oil and huge concentration of capital on the government's hand overshadows and covers our domestic challenges. The property tax stifles private, Norwegian ownership. The lack of access to business capital is disappearing and, in the long term, this is critical to adaptability and growth. Generational changes and ownership changes are hindered by inheritance taxes and unclear tax rules. That's enough to catch up with. The red-green government has made tax a dogma. The right is not going to leave the asleep in sin! The rule of action was not only 4 pst., it should also contribute to growth. Targeted tax reductions were part of this, and the Right wants to go back there. Right will prepare the country for the challenges it will face in a few years' time, by reducing taxes now, creating more robust growth, more robust industrial structures and transforming and streamlining the public sector. I hear what State Council Johnsen says, but sees little action, and there's a lot of backwardness in this. In the right, it is obvious that everyone should contribute, and that according to the ability through the tax system. However, we are concerned that understanding of this also depends on the management of public expenditure and budgets in line with what people think makes sense. There, the media carries the sins every day. Trains are standing, roads are falling out, health cows are increasing, and, in the case of school, the Minister of Knowledge has not realized that it is necessary to ensure that students learn something in high school to avoid falling away from high school. All of this undermines that understanding. It is critical that the red-greens see nothing but more money as the solution. When the strategy for better solutions is not there, more money just leads to bureaucracy. In the statement by the representative Sanner earlier today, the head of the Loan Fund said that in terms of savings, there is a very high potential in the public sector. It's a little weird that you take one floor after another without having a strategy. We also have an example of this in today's documents. You remove VAT returns on paper, but you don't even take the trouble to calculate the effects of savings, for example. in the tax haven. It is too weak a position on this type of efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2413	When I hear the opposition in the Mongstad debates both now and before, I like to think of a story that I've heard about a line-up between Guttorm Hansen and Jon Leirfall, after Hansen had an enthusiastic article about Homeland Protection. Jon Leirfall began his line by saying that he would pour a drop of wormwood into the beggar, and Guttorm Hansen replied back: Why just a drop? That's where it comes from. From the opposition, there is wormwood in buckets and buckets. Today, the trailers and opponents of the full-scale CO2 cleaning requirement have found each other. The size is not informed about the risk of postponing the start of full-scale cleaning, they say, but they often quote from newspaper articles and media postings that the deadline may be a problem – media lookups that they themselves have commented on. The Prime Minister has referred to the Frøiland Committee, which clearly stated that things that are widely known should not be informed by the Government of the Storting. The opposition has known that there were problems and challenges, and that there were demanding deadlines. In the budget position last year, the Progress Party and the Right said: ‘These members note that there are already notified delays in relation to the target of one full-scale CO2 capture plant in Mongstad by 2014.’» When this is quoted, it is said that yes, there were some rumors about postponement. Thus, when the opposition makes a comment with the tumultuous words ‘these members note that it has already been notified’, there are rumors and loose talk in the village to which it refers. Is this the level of precision that the opposition uses, or is the truth that it has been said all along that it is demanding to reach the deadline that has been? We have said on the part of the government parties and the government that we are keeping to that deadline. We have one plan, and it applies until we have another plan – until we have decided another plan. That's what's happening in the line exchange and in the questions that have been about this over time. We were on target, we have one plane. It's not just the government parties in this room that have a plan. The government has a plan – Statoil has acted on the same plan and Gassnova has acted on the same plan, as they confirmed at the hearings here in Stortinget. On 22 March the government was advised from Gassnova to change that plan, and it was done. And it has been notified in the documents that we are dealing with today. What we have decided in Stortinget regarding Mongstad is that the state and Statoil will cooperate on the full-scale clean-up of CO2. We have decided to set up a technology centre to test out technology, and we have taken budgetary decisions to finance the planning of these projects. We haven't been invited, as it's been suggested here, to grant 25 billion. kr to test centre in Mongstad. We're not there yet. We've given money to get on the way there, to an investment decision. That's the plan and the planning the government has to inform us about. I would also like to bring forward the way the opposition operates this matter in the media. Obviously, it's just a matter of making the most of games and speckling out of it. When we look at what they say about amines -- that this is a terrible surprise, and that they would never go into the project if they knew what it was like, it says in St. pp. No 38 for 2008-2009 on investment in the test centre in the chapter on Statoil’s assessment that it is: ‘uncertainty related to the health effects of amine emissions to air. This is a relationship that requires special focus in the further work of the project». Under Gassnova's assessments: ‘The TCM will address emissions of chemicals to air as well as methods/procedures for the handling of waste products, residues and degradation products. It is important that CO2 capture does not introduce new health and environmental problems.» This was known.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2458	First I want to notice that there is very empty in the hall here. Then I would like to point out that the Minister of Finance is not present in his own debate, nor is he the head of the Financial Committee. That's what I think is alarming. But fortunately, we have the pleasure of having a former Minister of Finance present. Then I hope Kristin Halvorsen can report back. On 14 June, Stoltenberg stated to the Evening Item that tax relief introduced in some countries is one of the causes of the debt crisis in Europe. To the AUF youth on Utøya he went even further and said that the debt crisis is a final farewell to tax relief in Europe and that further tax relief is absolutely irresponsible. From the pulpit here today, the Prime Minister said that it is “more irresponsible than ever” – statements that were fully supported by the Chair of the Finance Committee in a line exchange that I had with him earlier today. This is interesting. On a microphone tripod, the evening post did not ask a single critical question about where Stoltenberg had his information. It just seemed so right, I guess. But I have. I have gone into the numerical basis of Stoltenberg's claims, because it cannot be that the Prime Minister has made claims that are not in line with reality, I thought. I picked up my information from the OECD's statistical database, which states budget revenue and expenditure as a percentage of GDP, and I was based on the so-called pig countries plus the United Kingdom. This is the case for Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, which are the countries with the highest debt ratio relative to GDP. What do you find here? Indeed, in these countries no tax relief has been granted in the years ahead of the financial and debt crisis — rather on the contrary. The only exception is Ireland, which, in the name of truth, has given great tax relief, but which at the same time experienced adventurous economic growth. We'll take that country by land. Portugal has had a deficit in the State budget for several years. The tax level has remained largely unchanged or has risen slightly. Italy has had a significant deficit in the state budget in recent years. The tax on employee income has increased. Greece has had a large government budget deficit over several years and the tax on average work has increased from 40 to 42pst. It includes an employer’s fee. In the report on Greece, the OECD states: «Greece is one of the OECD countries with the highest tax children on labour income [[...]] Well, so much for Stoltenberg's claims. Then we have Spain. Spain has a surplus on the state budget of about 1 pst. of GDP other than 2008. There it turned to a deficit of 4 pst. GDP. The tax on the average worker has increased by 1 pst. Then we have Britain. Long-term workers’ party government has increased income tax marginally. Conclusion: The pig countries have not, in the main, pursued tax relief policies, nor vice versa. But what does the increase in budget deficits and in debt increase explain? Indeed, according to the OECD, there is an increase in health expenditure, huge expenditure on pensions — there is a very low retirement age — social expenditure and increased expenditure on public administration. But what else is common among most pig countries? Well, according to the OECD, they have a slightly flexible labour market – something like Norway then, I guess. So the countries of the Virgin Islands have increased their taxes. But what about the countries with the lowest level of indebtedness? Then I thought I would go in and check if the Prime Minister had thought about it. The lowest indebtedness, what have they done? Indeed, in those countries with a surplus or a lower debt burden — Germany and Finland — the level of taxation has fallen. They have reduced taxes in the same period. So, in short, four out of five of the pig countries have increased taxes, except for Portugal, which has kept it relatively stable. While the countries with the best budgetary balance and the lowest debt ratio have reduced taxes. This can then be found on the OECD website. Then I just want to finish by saying that it is good that the Prime Minister does not have an obligation to inform the evening post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2489	In the view of the Right, the backbone of our work on the alternative state budget has been to reduce the use of oil money – simply that the Right assists Sigbjørn Johnsen in fulfilling what he himself has said, but which he unfortunately does not get completely over and over again. So the right hand side has reduced the use of oil by 2.6 billion. kr. We do that because we see that business is asking for a powerful government that is tightening up fiscal policy. We see a travel industry that, just before the transition to summer holidays, tells us about major challenges in filling up available hotel rooms due to the price of the kroner. Too many business leaders across the coast are concerned about future market access and competition with European competitors. For the Right, much of what we've done has its background in our main budget, where we want a completely different transformation of the public sector. We look at it quite differently, and it's actually a disease sign, in my opinion, when we read in Today's Business from yesterday's interview with the head of the Loan Fund, to which the Council of State that's in the Chamber should listen. I quote: ‘There is no strategy or policy project to improve efficiency. It is only heard that the Minister of Finance says you should save, and then you get allocations in the budget for the autumn that are slightly lower than the year before. There is no comprehensive strategy that says how to do it, and it is clear that people are frustrated.’ It says one of the top heads of state in Norway, who may come up with a little hint to other government leaders to grab hold of it themselves, simply because neither red-green depositors nor state councils have it at the top of their agenda, namely how to run in the public sector and what kind of demands you have on the leaders of the public sector. It can almost seem like the director himself in the Loan Fund saying you get a phone when it's been six months: do you need more or less money than what's in the budget? And as former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said, it should not be on money. There might be more people who notice this, and that means that we have to focus on it. A right-dominated government will focus more on it. There are important individual issues in the Right's priority alternative budget. We have removed the inheritance fee from 1 July, which means a lot at many generation changes in small businesses. It means a lot to individuals. Let's get rid of it. There'll be less bureaucracy. People get to keep more of the money they've already paid taxes on for generations. The Government has also promoted one of three VAT cases in the context of the revised budget, namely the reimbursement scheme for private sports facilities. Norway’s sports federation reports back to Stortinget that at least a triple in addition to the government’s proposals is needed. On the right, the government's proposal increases by 50 pst, and we say that we're going to build those sports facilities, it's not time to wait for the municipalities, because under this government, the municipalities have a tighter economy. The sports facilities are not being built, and if a good offer is to be made to the sports teams, that they take care of everyone's interests by building themselves, they should then receive full VAT compensation. Unfortunately, the government has put itself on a line that creates an increase in uncertainty – above what was the whole point of the budget now, that it should not lead to it. We have increased the allocation, and in addition to that, we have said that as a framework system, it is a problem that once the money is spent, the appropriations for sports facilities under construction are cut. It is not acceptable for anyone, nor should it be for the government. We also have some other priorities that we're going to do. We have halved the employer’s fee for new apprentices from 1 July. We're making a few small environmental adjustments in relation to increased electric car investment, and we're letting masterless inheritance fall to non-profit institutions. The right-hand alternative budget is a very good budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2513	As we have heard repeatedly today, and to some extent yesterday, Norway has been successful in the international financial crisis. Now we see that many countries are shaken by the aftermath of the crisis and are struggling with large government debt and deficits in their budgets. We who are so lucky to live in Norway can in no way interfere with what is now being done in several countries in Europe, for the individuals who are involved and pay the price of a speculative economy driven by a desire for quick profit. Last week I met several Nordic politicians who could tell about high unemployment in their home country. Not least, youth unemployment in our neighbouring countries was a major concern. We have seen demonstrations in the streets of Greece, but there was also a strong mark from Danish LO last week against the tightening up package government that has presented. So we have the aftermath after the financial crisis close up. Nor does Norway escape the aftermath of the international financial crisis. We have an open economy. Our main exports are sold at prices set by international markets. The most important thing we can do to prevent a crisis from occurring in us, too, with high unemployment resulting from it, is to keep the economy in order, so that interest rates and exchange rates are kept down. We've done it throughout the period from 2005 to now. This means that we respect the rules of action for the use of oil money and set aside reserves in good times that we can use when crises occur, as we did when the financial crisis hit us in 2008. The expansion measures we took in 2009 were targeted and helped to keep unemployment down. The New Year action package in 2009 ensured jobs in many industries, including: in the construction sector. We are now concerned about the development of competitive industries where the decline in employment has particularly hit industry hard. The revised budget therefore provides funds to stimulate new activity in the yard and supplier industries. I am very pleased, and yesterday we could hear that Aker Verdal has signed a contract for the supply of chassis to 48 wind turbines in Germany. It shows that our supplier industry has the skills to make it competitive in new markets. However, the instrument has to be involved in setting up new activities. That is precisely what we see in connection with the fact that Aker Verdal has got a big contract in a new market. Several companies will follow and contribute to Norway becoming a central provider of environmental technologies internationally. When the Progress Party claims that we do not facilitate the development of Norwegian companies, it falls on its own unfairness. The yard package is an excellent example of the fact that many and good tools contribute to new activity in companies with long-standing skills. The instrument also contributes to the sighting of new, exciting businesses throughout the country. When I read the proposals from the opposition to revised budgets, I am disappointed. There is a big gap between what is said about keeping order in the economy and what is presented by proposals. The right-hand side says they've budgeted about 1,750 billion savings. kr, but no matter what right here claims in the hall today, very vague, unspecified and unrealistic assumptions are attached to that number. We recognize this from the proposal for a budget for the current year that we dealt with before Christmas last year. The same can be said of the draft budgets for the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Progress Party has its own arrangement with many additions in its budget and says that the action rule is: ‘small appropriate as a financial management tool’. In addition, it says: ‘The rule of action represents, on the contrary, a collective political disclaimer of responsibility. Norway’s economic and financial development.’;» Like the chairman of the committee, I think that is an interesting point of view as to what a potential cooperation party, namely the Right, believes about the rule of action. The revised budget is a responsible budget, where we also bring down the use of oil money. It's consistent with what we've said, that we're going down to the 4 pst. path in the use of money from the pension fund. The most important thing we do now is to keep order of the economy, so that we do not weaken our industry, but help to keep interest rates and exchange rates down and thus also ensure the continued strong export industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2540	Minister of Justice Storberget said on TV 2 a few days ago: ‘A lot has been received in recent years. Now you have to reduce public spending. The police must also be prepared to do so.’ In other words, the police have too little money to hire people now and will get even less in the coming years. Then I ask, what's the point of increasing admissions at the Police College and training more policemen? Is it to put them on a bus, carry them around the country to look at the police districts in which they could get a job, then return and drop them off at Nav? If that is the intention, he has achieved the goal in an exemplary way. If the intention is to get more visible police, more people to investigate and prosecute, he has bombed altogether. Police districts are assigned a framework. These frames have increased somewhat. That's right. But – and it’s a big but – when the fixed costs, such as: rents and maintenance increases, when equipment deteriorates and wears out, a new one must be provided. It costs money. It goes beyond the operating budget and thus the salary budget. The withdrawal of ICT investment from the police framework also undermines the wage budget. When e.g. The Oslo police have to finance helicopters from their own budget, it goes beyond wage budgets and posts. So despite clear information from Stortinget regarding the cost of the helicopter service, the Oslo Police are extra chargeable for this. When wage and price growth is far from being compensated, it does not help to make more police in the streets. There is clearly a need for restructuring in the allocation of financial resources to the police, including: investments are excluded from the ordinary operating budget. Just before Christmas I was in Canada, more specifically in Montreal. Montreal was previously a very insecure city with a lot of crime. Now the city is one of the safest in the world, with minimal crime. The police chief who was given financial resources to hire the policemen he needed to create security. In addition, he analyzed the crime scene in the city – what kind of crime is being committed, where and when, and where are the police, when are they there? Crime doesn't happen between 2:00 a.m. 08 and 16 on weekdays when most policemen are at work. It happens on the evening, at night and on the weekends. That's pretty obvious. In Montreal, there were, among other things, increased frequencies of burglaries in slightly finer urban areas during holidays and weekends while people were away. Extra resources were deployed at these times, and crime fell dramatically. The same was done at the centre of the evenings and weekends – with the same result. Greater resources were also put in place to provide information on the criminal environment and for investigation. This gave results. But to accomplish this, police officers were needed, and it got the chief of police in Montreal. The Norwegian police also need resources so that they can carry out the tasks that we politicians constantly impose on them. We're good at saying what the police should do, but we're not as good at saying what they should down priorities to accomplish new, priority tasks. We need a restructuring of the police, such as, inter alia: involve fewer police districts and more involvement in local police. We also need a management, both administrative and political, that is able to carry out such a reorganization. Today's management has not made this clear. You haven't managed to bring down crime, and you haven't been able to do your problems in a good way. You have failed in many ways. So what do you do? Do you do the same thing you've done for years, or do you try something new? When management fails to do its job, this management should disappear. It shall not be renewed and extended in confidence. You can probably blame the local management and the police officers, but if they don't have the power to do their job, the responsibility lies at the top. It's so that if a tree starts to get rattled at the top, one doesn't repair it by removing the root, then this whole tree. You remove the rotten top.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2560	A lot of today's debate has been about state councils that do not properly orientate the Storting. Yesterday we were able to record that the Minister of Transport, in connection with benefits from Baneservice, has also not chosen to inform the Stortinget that the board of directors of the company has clearly stated that they do not want the council and the government to take dividends, because it could have major, dramatic consequences for the company, and the company actually has to borrow to pay dividends to the state. That's kind of a special way of driving. I also record that the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman was very concerned with the economic policy of the Progress Party, that we had unrealistic desires about what we would spend money on. I wonder if the representative has actually been out there and seen how things stand around our country on the infrastructure side – at least you can start fooling – and not least the government as well. Aren't you out to see what the actual conditions are? Yesterday I also registered that the Workers' Party's cultural policy spokeswoman, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, said that this government bet, we have to asphaltize 3,600 km of road. But the State Road Service says that the decay will continue to increase. It is clear that when you see a statement that “Tromes is worst in class”, which is home to Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, you can wonder if she has got what is happening in her own country in terms of infrastructure. So it's going to be the total maturity, despite the so-called increases from the government parties. Today, the fatherland friend has a big look at the front page, where it appears that traffic accidents in the South have cost society 20,5 billion. kr in the last ten years – NOK 20,5 billion. kr only in accident costs – that is a huge amount. We also know that the total costs in Norway are approx. 28 B.C.E. kr every one year. We also know that 500 kilometers with midpoints on the most accident-prone routes could actually reduce the number of people who lose their lives in traffic, by 80 to 100 every year. But the red-greens can't afford it. We're going to build 15 kilometers in the middle of 2010. This shows that we do not want to use the possibilities that exist to help reduce the accidents, and that zero vision is left almost as a ‘tariff vision’, with so little willingness to actually intervene in terms of infrastructure. In addition, we know that the four-field motorway reduces the number of fatalities in traffic by 80-90 pst. However, in 2010 only 12 km of motorway will be built, which shows that the willingness to take responsibility is not present. Every day between two and three people are injured on the roads in East Agder and West Agder. 224 killed and 6,984 injured in the South from 2000 to 2009 show clearly that today's transport policy is too bad, and it is the red-green ones who are responsible. While the traffic accidents in South Africa cost $20.5 billion. kr, costs a whole new stretch of E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand 3,3 billion. kr. So there's not much money compared to the costs that we have every year in road accidents. That's how you can take one way after another: E18 through Telemark, E39 in the South, etc. So the challenge is that the cost of accidents is enormous. If you had instead chosen to spend money on investing in the infrastructure, you could therefore save costs in the future that are now going to be paid out in connection with traffic accidents. In the revised national budget, we're going in to spend a billion dollars. kr more than the government of our highways. Then we will give priority to, among other things: E18, we will give priority to E39, and we will give priority to other important roads in Norway. It's very urgent to start planning processes. The death rates on the roads have to go down. We've also done 185 million. kr extra for road maintenance and 100 mill. extra to unforeseen costs of scrapping and racing. We recently discussed a representative proposal on the removal of airport charges in connection with the volcanic eruption in Iceland, namely Document 8:119 S for 2009-2010, and unlike certain other parties, we keep what we promise, and therefore we also propose 200 million. kr in ash compensation in the form of reduced charges for all airlines. Norway is completely dependent on domestic air traffic, and with the standard we now have on the road network and on our network, good airport infrastructure is definitely important. The flight from Oslo to Bergen is about as long as the flight from Gothenburg to Copenhagen. A car trip from Oslo to Bergen takes eight hours, while a car trip from Gothenburg to Copenhagen – the distance is about the same – takes a little over three hours. This clearly shows that we need a real boost for the infrastructure. We have to take hold, and we have to dry to do it now in order to reap in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2583	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2587	We are today to adopt the revised national budget. In the revised national budget, there are three main aspects: work and employment, that is the generational contract, and that is the order of the economy. In the revision, we're reducing the distance to 4 pst. path, from 44.6 billion. NOK 25,8 billion. This shows that we have used the increased freedom of action to reduce the distance to 4 pst. path. Although there is a growing growth in the world economy, there is still great uncertainty. Many European countries have very large government debts, which are very serious. We're talking about Greece, which has to cut 7 pst. GDP. That would mean 150 billion. Here in Norway. Today, Spain is in the news. We believe that every other youth in Spain is unemployed. It's a waste of young people's powers. In France, the unemployment rate is close to 10 pst. The country is now discussing proposals with large budget cuts, increasing retirement age and increasing taxes. This is the image around us. Several countries realize that the tax code is not the solution. When the situation in Europe is so serious, it will also affect Norway, since 80 p.m. of our exports goes to European countries. It is then important that we have a level playing field and that European countries do not put in place protectionist measures. The most important thing we can do in fiscal policy is to keep the economy in order. The interest rate in Europe will only be slightly above 0 pst. for a long time. Then it's very important that our distance from that level doesn't get too high, and that the crown doesn't get too strong, so that we weaken our export industry. The unemployment rate here is now 2.7 pst. In relation to our neighbouring countries, it's low. That's good. Norway has been better off with the setback than most other countries. Work until all are still Objective No. one for the Workers' Party. The revised budget also includes the focus area. 64 million. kr is set aside for the Ski Station, for additional acquisitions, exploration of plans and transfer tracks. This means that the double-track Oslo-Ski, which is the most important transport project for Oslo, for Follo, for Eastfold, in fact for the whole country, has begun now. It's about priorities. Another focus area for us is the yard industry and the maritime cluster, which the workforce is approaching 100,000. Therefore, it is also a focus industry for the government. For this reason, our government, when the yard industry is now struggling with empty order books and has been marked by the consequences of the financial crisis, has put in a yard package to remedy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2606	I have listened to the debate today with great interest. There are serious debts, but I think it is absolutely right and necessary of the Storing to promote them. There are two points in this debate. There has been a lot of talk about mistrust, and there has been a lot of focus on the Minister of Oil and Energy. I want to talk about the environmental focus in the matter, and therefore put a little of the responsibility and focus on the Prime Minister. For 2007, Stoltenberg had a fantastic national meeting speech to the Labour Party. He used his speech well, stopped in the middle and said, "The rest of the speech I'm going to use on the environment." He also had a great New Year's Eve speech. There he said, among other things.\t\t You can "When President Kennedy told the Americans to land on the moon within 10 years, the Americans had not been out in space. They came to the moon within 10 years. They set targets, and they achieved targets. Our vision is that within 7 years we will put in place the technology that makes it possible to clean greenhouse gas emissions. [[...]] This is a big project for the country. It's our moon landing." The date was seen. 2014 was the goal. Stoltenberg had visions. He wanted to rent. I love politicians who show way, who want something, who have an engagement, and who believe in something. Stoltenberg had it! The government could almost do anything, and the people -- many of us -- would listen. One could see the gas price at NOK 20 and had an air trip this year, and we had said hallelujah. But since 2007, it's happened a little bit. There has been a record in the allocation of loops for oil; there is hardly a windmill built, so the biodiesel tax came – almost one concrete environmental measure. And the momentum for environmental policy is gone – and then this came. Jens Stoltenberg asked how important it is to spend time and be 100 pst. safe environmental technology. The visions are gone. What would have happened if Kennedy came back and said, "We'll take that moon landing in the next decade?" The Prime Minister tried to compare himself to Kennedy, but he still looked like Bush. In May 1961, John F. Kennedy made a choice: "We choose to go to the moon in this decade, not because it is easy, but because it is difficult. Because that goal will pick up and measure our power of action and our best abilities." At that time, it's $1,000 billion. kr measured in the monetary value of the day. Mostly 350,000 people are working on the moon landing project. In July 1969, Neil Armstrong, with his first steps on the moon, proved that it is impossible. With all due respect: The moon landing in Mongstad for a few billion is rather boisterous. It's even more embarrassing when you can't even do what's possible, but the Prime Minister is not willing to pay the price. At best he should find something else to compare Mongstad with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2633	We who heard Riis-Johansen today heard a government council that didn't take any self-criticism, and who actually said that nothing could have been done differently. I was almost impressed by how happy a person could be with himself. It's a paradox that 16 April 2009, exactly one year and two months ago, came a report to the government. That report has been requested in this Chamber several times, so he came to the Stortinget on Wednesday, June 16, in the evening. When the party groups were at a party, the report was distributed in our shelves. After the party we could start reading the report. One might think that it was a favorable time for the Christian People's Party! The paradox is that today, Friday 18 June, this report is being published. This means the Council of States is a process on which there is no reason to take self-criticism. No, nothing could have been done differently. However, the most important thing is the content of this report. For what Gassnova concludes here is four concrete concepts for rapid implementation. None of the four concepts that Gassnova points to meet the clearing loop in 2014. We know that the Council of State has been in office for one year and two months. Then came a new advice from Gassnova on March 22. This is a advice that we have just been referred to. We've never seen that. But if the Council of State follows the same timetable, the Stortinget can expect to see this Council in summer 2011. I also think it's serious that we see the exact same trend from the plural government in other cases. The Board of Baneservice has warned against taking out the dividends that we will take out from Baneservice today. It is not an information the Storting has received, but we have become aware of it via TV 2 yesterday. There are two things that are very serious in that matter. The only thing is that the Department of Transport has kept this information secret from them on 25 May. The second is that the consequences of the decision we are making today are going to be poorer maintenance of our railway. It matters to a party such as the Christian People's Party, which has chosen to support the increase of the government to the railway, precisely because we have been guaranteed that what we now allow is what the Railway Agency wants. So the consequences of today's decision are going to be the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2644	The debate today has fluctuated a little. Many interventions are seen as good and constructive, with emphasis on both consensus and political differences that are understandable and relevant. At other times I feel that there is an impression that there is almost nothing happening. I sometimes think that's reason to remind ourselves of the many important political decisions that have been made here in this big room in the last few years -- sometimes with broad consensus, sometimes after harsh voting. In order to mention something, during this government we have strengthened the appropriations for the vaccination of the world's children, we have put in place a climate settlement, managed the global financial crisis through a number of crisis packages, put in place 10,000 new annual work in the care and care sector, increased the minimum pension and made important steps in the policy of distribution, for example. through the taxes on wealth. When we won the election in 2005, we stopped the tax cuts policy and chose to spend the money on tasks we thought were more important. Now it is the privilege of the bourgeois parties in their proposals to budget with money that would hardly have been there if they themselves had continued to rule – because the money had already been used for tax cuts. In the future, the main focus must be to get the economy in order, both for competitiveness and for the generation contract – that we should deliver something better than when we started ourselves. The revised budget shows that revenue has increased more than provided for last year's harvest. These revenues are mainly used to strengthen the budgetary balance. So we're closer to the 4 pst. path on which the rule of action is based than previously assumed. However, there is also room for important measures for the shipbuilding industry, labour market measures and money for road and rail. The financial crisis began as a crisis in financial markets, continued to decline domestic demand, and then spread to the export industry. Many countries have significantly increased their sovereign debt and now mention a European sovereign debt crisis with a particular focus on the situation in Greece and other southern European countries. The financial situation of Norway is a small number of other countries. Where others have had to raise government loans, we have been able to use directly the budget surplus. Unemployment is around one third of the unemployment in Sweden and the EU area as a whole, and perhaps around one sixth of the unemployment in Spain. Countries such as China and India have maintained high growth through the financial crisis, which has also helped Norway, which has extensive trade with Asian markets. At the same time, we are vulnerable if growth in Asia is decreasing. Combined with the changing age structure of the population and the decline in the European markets with which we trade, it may require even more than before a responsible economic policy in line with what the Minister of Finance has announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2666	On the right is the party that is best able to pursue a holistic policy that creates the values that can give the inhabitants good welfare services and ensure a positive development for the country and for the inhabitants. It has also been confirmed by the management of the revised national budget today. Economic policy is crucial to achieve this, and tax policy provides an important basis for value creation here too. It's scary to see how talented the red-green politicians and parties are in this area. When the state budget was taken over in December, the biodiesel levy was a good example of headless policy from the red-green parties. On 3 June, Stortinget dealt with a case on transitional arrangements for small power plants, where the government had all the possibilities to rectify the lifting break of time against 160 small power plants that lose 1.2 billion. that they do not enter the green certificate market with Sweden. Fee-smooth red-green politicians show no mercy to businesses and builders who pride themselves on hope and more or less on personal promises. The same politicians also show no remorse when more than 20 small-scale builders sit in the mall in Stortinget and listen to the tasty explanation of one of the worst political promises of the time. Agricultural industry is an important industry such as low-ignition labour. Income from small power would help to secure the income base of many farmers and landowners in the districts, and it is unthinkable that the particular centre party could live on such a matter. Right wants to strengthen the income base of the entire small-scale industry. Therefore, in the revised national budget, the Right proposes to remove the land interest tax on small power plants up to 10 MW. It will increase renewable energy production, significant investment in districts and important revenues for gardeners and landowners. It also guarantees income for future generations. In the nation on 4 May, the leader of Eidsdal Kraft states that we are being taxed for bankruptcy. It gives a good picture of the government's policy towards small-scale industries, and it sees the realities of red-green policies. Another important tax matter that also concerns agricultural industries and industrial development is the levy on juice — a very unfair tax that happens to a great company like Lerum in Sogn. In several circumstances, the right has the right to halve this fee. That would lead to 16 million. less in the charge for Lerum, and it would strengthen this enterprise and secure the jobs. But here, too, the red-green parts are in contrast. After so many rounds in Stortinget with this case, it is clear that red-green politicians do not understand how important tax policy is to business, and that is also a good proof that red-green politicians from Sogn and Fjordane do not have any impact on their own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2692	The opposition has criticised the red-green movement movement movement up and down in mind, but a critical look at the opposition's own promises shows that it is only a game for the gallery. Yesterday, we got the most blatant example with Siv Jensen's play on the Progress Party's new "dugnad". And the VG case completely reveals how little thoughtful the progress party proposal is. Siv Jensen will not respond to how much money they want to spend on this in the next year's state budget, Siv Jensen will not respond to the timetable for implementing the measures. In fact, the price tag of the proposal amounts to nearly 800 billion. kr – almost an entire state budget – and I understand that Jensen will not disclose it, because it would reveal the lack of realism and the irresponsibility of the proposal. Another opposition politician, Right Ingjerd Schou, has repeatedly criticized the government for taking out excessive profits from the NSB. She even said to Today's Business April 12th this year: "When we were little, we learned that it was cowardly to give away with one hand and bring the other." How does she explain that the Right proposes higher profits than the government in its alternative state budget, which will have major consequences for the NSB, which needs money for, among other things. new trains? I have to say that I got a flurry of taste in my mouth when I heard the committee leader Hareide criticise the government in relation to Baneservice, when the Christian People's Party also proposes to take out a far higher profit from the NSB than the government does, with the consequences it will have for the train operation. After the winter train crisis, it turned out that there was a greater need for money for maintenance than the railway station requested. As the government has previously followed up the request from the Railway Agency, we have also now done so, and have put forward 210 new million for various maintenance measures, including: on Bergensbanen, Dovrebanen, and Østfoldbanen. And we're going to give 200 million. to improve road maintenance and planning of new investments. 3,600 new kilometres of asphalt cover will be provided during the summer. I heard the representative Hoksrud railing over this earlier today. But it's going to be the same distance from Alnabru to Alta and back. So only in Troms, as the representative Hoksrud used as an example, do 64 small and large road sections have to be paved this summer. In short, the difference between the opposition's beautiful promises and empty words and our attitude towards society: the opposition is black, we're asphalting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2716	President, I would like to correct a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2721	Hans Olav Syversen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2724	Since the representative Bjørnflaten believes that we have introduced a higher dividend claim on the NSB, I can only inform the representative that it is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2729	The President expects that there are more, both from the Labour Party and other parties, who are going to talk about this, so that it will be clarified in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2733	The economic and market situation of business here to countries and the rest of Europe shows that we cannot breathe easily and believe that the economic crisis is facing this time. But we see that there are considerable differences between the starting points of the country and the management of the crisis. Time and again, the Stoltenberg government has shown that they understand the seriousness of the situation and provide concrete measures aimed at those who have needed handshake. While the Right Party and the Advance Party usually imply that the market and people are the best in control of themselves, the financial crisis has shown that the market alone is insufficient. The government has demonstrated governance by helping to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis in Norway. I like the Prime Minister's statement that the market is an excellent servant, but a miserable gentleman. Today we will see if the government budget has flashed, and not least we have the opportunity to adjust the rate in areas that have changed since the government budget was adopted. I am very pleased that the Stoltenberg government has prioritised keeping a firm, tough course for the maritime industry, for 17 of the 29 shipyards stand without orders from the turn of the year. The large offshore workshops expect only 60 pst to be used. of the capacity in the second half of this year, so our concern is that there may be a significant number of lay-offs and redundancies in this industry in the future. Therefore, the government’s contribution to the revised contribution will contribute to the realisation of profitable projects, facilitate conversion and build competences in these enterprises. It gives a total of 200 million in this round. kr for an innovation package. In order to contribute to predictability and security in the maritime and other export industries, the total pot of GIEK is increased by 10 billion. DKK to a total of 120 billion kr. And more will now be able to participate in this scheme. The industry itself and GIEK have asked that the scheme be made more flexible and more integrated. It is now delivered. The building loan scheme is extended to smaller ships and offshore facilities. Furthermore, the Norwegian share of projects is reduced from 50 pst. to 30 pst. for fixed interest loans from the 108 Export Finance Scheme. And it opens up to provide guarantees and loans of national interest, which means that supplies other than those from Norway can be emphasised in the assessment of whether the project is qualified or not. The yard package thus contains more money for innovation, conversion and skills enhancement, as well as more flexibility and money for GIEK and Export Finance. This is an important handset for the maritime industry, and I would encourage the government to continue to follow the situation closely and assess the need for any new measures. Overall, an adjustment has been revised to the main objectives of the government: high employment and low unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2756	At the Mongstad People's Meeting in March 2009, the local population was concerned about and concerned about carcinogens in the planned treatment technology in Mongstad. I had just received an answer to a written question about this from Minister of Oil and Energy Terje Riis-Johansen. There he answered the following: ‘The potential health risk posed by the release of amines into the air is therefore taken very seriously in the ongoing planning work at Mongstad.’ He referred to ongoing research projects and finally wrote: ‘I assume that it would not be appropriate to grant necessary authority authorisations and concessions for amine-based CO2 capture at Mongstad where such activity is harmful to health.’; ==References== One month after this response, the Council of State received the Final Report from StatoilHydro and Gassnova. This report was first made available to Stortinget a few days ago. The report shows that there is little knowledge about amines as emissions into the air. There is a risk that the cancer risk will not be clarified in time and that this could be time-directed for the project. So this is the following: ‘A complete dossier of cancer hazards usually takes three years. It is in this plan” – i.e. in the plan they are now presenting – ‘provided that results that can provide indications are clear after one year of cancer studies and that results that can be concluded from two years of cancer studies are clear’. It is alarming that in such an unknown field a propulsion plan is made which is shorter than normal. I suppose it can be adapted to the politically agreed time aspect. But the most interesting thing in this report, which we got access to two days ago, we find in the summary of the report, chapter. 7, paragraph 3. It states that CO2 management in Mongstad is health, environmental and safety managed due to uncertainty related to amine emissions. This cannot be interpreted in any other way than the fact that there is a high risk of not reaching targets within the time aspect because the cancer risk cannot be resolved within the specified time period, or that the cancer risk is such that amine-based CO2 capture is not feasible. Stortinget did not know anything about this. Neither government councils nor government parties commented on the difficulties associated with amin when the issue was actually raised in Stortinget on 7 May 2009, more than one month after the report was handed over. And the locals still live in uncertainty. I meet with the Council of State's explanation of what is the reason why the Storting has not been informed about one of the main governance parameters related to CO2 management in Mongstad. I see that the Council of State is not in the Chamber right now, but I still hope that someone can answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2797	When one hears the opposition's criticism in the media and in this room, one should think that the oil fund is exhaustive and that we do not even need the community's contribution. It sounds improperly like the right-hand side has forgotten the fact that the entire 80 pst. of our national wealth comes precisely from the work of the community. The government hasn't forgotten. For the government parties, there is no doubt the whole people in work that is the way to go and the goal to achieve. We cannot, as the Minister of Finance was about to do away with the labour force. Therefore, the proposal for increased resources for labour market measures amounts to 245 million. kr so incredibly important. This is why this government is focusing on such measures – because we see it working. I'm from a part of the country that's overrepresented in statistics on disabled and young people without work. We are also low on living conditions statistics and high on crime statistics. I'm not in doubt that this has a connection. Therefore, it is particularly important for us in the South that the government continues to focus on welfare and work for all. In Aust-Agder, we have several great feedback companies that can show good results in their day-based action work. In East Agder was a total of 40 pst. of the sick’s benefits returned to work after the end of the period of action in 2009. Other solutions were found for the rest, e.g.: faster re-employment, re-training or education. Attractive businesses are doing a fantastic job of getting people to find a way forward in life. They are cheaper than day-based measures, they are more effective, and they have a task that neither doctors, institutions, nor Nav can fulfill. Not least they adapt to the needs of each one, just as we want them to. With successful numbers and happy endings, there is little doubt that they are an important role in society. The main point is that people are kept active during a period when they have been told that they do not have the ability to contribute to society. The right-hand side is occupied by human economic capital, in the government parties we are also occupied by social capital. When people fall outside, it's going to be so little more before they get there. The network you get through a job, the mastermind you feel, and the knowledge you acquire, is crucial to your feeling that you have a reason to get up in the morning. The longer you get in that situation, the more likely it is that you won't get back to work again. The government realizes that it's only together, in common, we can further develop the welfare state. Then it's our responsibility to make sure that everyone can participate in that community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2816	As a new wholesaler during this period, it has been an interesting experience for the first time to take part in a debate on which a mistrust proposal is based. As new representatives, we have all tried to learn to understand, with great humility, the rules of the game on which Norwegian democracy is built. We have also tried to read the relationship between magnification and government through the principles of the Basic Law. It is therefore amazing and amazing to sit and experience that a government interprets it to comply with its disclosure obligation so that it has informed the content of professional reports from its own professional bodies by informing the Storting that a project is demanding and challenging. It is also amazing to experience a prime minister comparing a mistrust proposal and a criticism of non-compliance with the information obligation to Stortinget with the fact that the opposition obviously wanted it to be a different government at any time. When it comes to the matter itself, it is said that we have to postpone the cleaning in Mongstad because we have to make sure that the solution to the project is so good that the rest of the world will follow. With the timetable that comes now, it's an open question about who will follow who, but that's another matter. The parliamentary leader of the Central Party referred to the process in the United States behind the first moon landing. I have to say that it would have been interesting to know how many professional reports the US presidents received in the 1960s that announced that this was a very demanding project, that it was very challenging, that it was professional uncertainty, and that it was uncertain whether it was possible to implement it, even if it was proper to implement it according to the timetable. The point is that it's the ability to take risks, the willingness to go ahead, as the world demands, because the first projects of any innovation will bear the mark of going ahead and taking risks. The reason why the first and real moon landing succeeded was that American presidents had power of action, determination and willingness to go ahead and bear the risk that the rest of the world had not yet ventured to take. That's why, because of the power of action, it worked to the top. It does not seem that we are getting a new moon landing, in the environmental field, with Prime Minister Stoltenberg who says.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2831	Last night, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to increase social security expenditure by 3 billion. kr annually. Earlier this week, the Stortingeet dealt with an important part of the pension scheme, namely the adaptation of the AFP and public sector service pension to the pension reform. So far, it has been quite difficult to see the pension option of the Progress Party. The Progress Party is usually careful to criticise everything and everyone, and in this case to such an extent that their potential partners in the Right look down in shame at the economic perseverance of the Progress Party. In this context, however, it was finally concluded that the Progress Party is a supporter of an improvement in the current pension system, with a retirement age of 62 years. This alone will increase social security expenditure by several tens of billions – each year – in the future. Amounts will increase as age develops. Today, the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, explains that the reason why the Progress Party does not take into account its many different additions in its alternative budgets is simply that they are not adopted. That's right. They are never adopted, and they can never be adopted, because the proposals of the Progress Party in total will increase social security expenditure to such an extent that it will hit the legs of the entire pension system. They simply will not take on board the fact that the outlook for growth in social security expenditure can actually be decisive for the development of the Norwegian economy. Because if the cost of social security continues to increase at the same rate as it has so far, it will eat up most of the growth in the economy. Therefore, all parties, except the Progress Party, have agreed on a pension scheme that makes it profitable to work longer and that already works. I would therefore be very surprised if the state accounts for the current year did not show that the pension reform already has the desired effect. The progress party is completely outside of this. They also stand out from all economic contexts. They have no financial framework. Every time someone puts his finger on their policy, they simply answer that we must afford this in the world's richest country. This is how their policy becomes a purely electoral fraud. The pensioners will never get a penny more with the Advance Party, not even if the party would probably come to government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2844	Parliamentary leader in the Labour Party Helga Pedersen describes and describes the red-green regime as almost perfect and transportable, and rails with the opposition. If the reality might look perfect for the representative in the house, it appears something different from the outside. If the government's policy was so successful, how could it be that 22 out of 24 members of the Selje Arbeidarparti resign from the party in protest against the government's policy? We see local hospitals in Lærdal and Nordfjordeid being reduced to district medical centers, while waiting lists are increasing. In Kristiansund, more than 10,000 people gather in protest against plans to turn the hospital there into a DMS. In Volda, more than 13,000 people wrote about the requirement to keep their local hospital. The removal of emergency services and the supply of food is therefore the medicine Arbeidarpartiet must prescribe to build on the community’s health supply – the same party that aims to become the dominant party from Kristiansand to Ålesund. I think they have to prescribe a slightly different medicine than that. So some words about Mongstad. The position says that the work at Mongstad is the most important in connection with cleaning and climate. Committee Leader Erling Sande tells us that the Committee has sent a significant number of questions and received answers to all of them – plus reports. When a person has to follow out, and the reports are initially so sluggish that they are almost out of information value, it says. The government has also received a clear signal from the scientific community that the time frame for the Mongstad project and the lunar landing were unrealistic. Yes, many believe this knowledge was known so early that the collapse option was at stake. It shows a desperation and an arrogance I hope not found. When the representative Pedersen shut down the exchange of lines by saying that she didn't believe that the Christian People's Party would break in order to remove the cord, yes, I thought the top was reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2853	Norway sits on the green branch. Not thanks to the red-green government, but thanks to huge oil and gas revenues, we go counter-current at a time when other countries are struggling with large deficits in their state finances and unemployment at two-digit level. But we know that these incomes don't last forever. That's why we have to put our trust in the Norwegian education system to process new generations of researchers and experts who can give us others and more legs to stand on. The new NHO president has pointed out that Chinese schoolchildren work 3,000 hours a year – 50 pst. more than a normal year of work — and that these are our children to compete with in the future. It is an important reminder that in a globalised world, we must be equally concerned with the competition from China as with our European neighbours. Norwegian school students and students have access to free education and opportunities for their peers in other countries can envy them. At the same time, we know that our children and young people do not take advantage of their advantages as we could expect. Researchers warn that the learning pressure in Norwegian school is too low, and the drop-out in secondary education is dramatic both for the young people concerned and for society, who need their labour force. Our oil wealth has become a sleeping medicine for the young – and school is too many a question of choosing the least resistance path. For the Right, there is an increasing paradox that we have behind us several crown years in the Norwegian economy without the government being able to give education and research a necessary boost. A top-class education system is for the Right the foremost defence agency for sustainable well-being and to ensure its innovation and competitiveness both in the short and long term. This is why the Right also has revised priority education and research to equip its students, students and teachers to build on the knowledge nation. It is incomprehensible that the government is holding back when other countries rate and have greater ambitions for its education sector. The right is also concerned that the sector should make better use of the money, but increased basic appropriations for universities and colleges are necessary to maintain high-quality education and research in response to the younger wave. In primary school, the rate of continuing education of teachers must be increased. Highly qualified teachers are the key to better student performance at all levels. For a Swedish Minister of Knowledge who says that the government will combat differences in education, it is mildly embarrassing that the revised national budget eliminates PC subsidies to dyslexics and sends the bill to the municipalities without interference. Non-invading bills are SV policies in a well-known style, and today SV defends social cuts that hit the weakest and create greater differences. The slogan of the game, different people – Equal opportunities, then become completely unreal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2872	After following today's debate, I find it necessary to draw up some broad lines as to why Mongstad and TCM and the full scale project at all are a debate. I have been rapporteur both under Bondevik II and under this government, and I have been rapporteur in the host municipality of Mongstad. It has been a long project, and there have been many ways to go. But in summary, we would find a technology that is both safe and economical in order to meet challenges, also for the next generation. It was also replacing old oil-fired boilers in a refinery process that had technology from the 1960s, to make it more environmentally friendly. We were also going to deliver energy offshore, to Gjøa, as part of Norway's policy to actually get our socket electrified. These are all sustainable, long-term development projects. This technology doesn't exist today, and that's why we have to take a grip. Then there are some important moments, which I feel create uncertainty about the matter, that are getting up today. Right-wing travel today doubts whether the TCM is a priority, since the original plan has been shifted. Should we carry out the research project? The Christian People's Party goes even further. They want to stop the thermal plant's emissions permit and will withdraw it. Are we going back to the oil-fired boilers of the 1960s, or are we going to go for a modern gas production? I interpret it so that the Christian People's Party wants to stop the thermal power plant, and that the Right wants to create uncertainty about the CO2 research project. These are things that the region had at least a great need to get feedback on, given the policy of the Right and Christian People's Party for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2884	The major issue today is, of course, the motion of censure put forward against the Minister for Oil and Energy. There is nothing new in that the opposition wants to replace our state councils – it is rather a natural state. However, the central point here is whether the Council of State has complied with its obligation to provide information to the Storting. Has the Storting received sufficient and relevant information, at the right time? And further, are any counter-conceptions adequately illuminated? The obligation to provide information, together with the custom, the Constitution and the Frøiland Committee, as well as the Storting's own treatment of this, is for both. This is a definition and practice that the Center Party puts itself at a hundred percent behind, like the rest of the Storing. There is therefore full agreement on the driving rules between government and collapse. There is also full agreement on the importance of sufficient and sufficient information for the Storting as a basis for decisions and decisions. It may seem obvious, but I still feel the need to say this, because, through the debate, I have not only taken an interest, but we have also repeatedly been told accusations from the opposition that we do not respect these rules. I'll take a distance from that. In addition to the quotations on the disclosure obligation entered by the opposition in the suspension, it is also a fact that, in the case of matters which must be regarded as generally known, the government will not be obliged to disclose separately – there is no obligation to disclose the obvious. And so is the fact that the Storting is sovereign to assess whether the disclosure obligation has been complied with, and that is what we are doing today through this debate, through this process. The majority state that the information obligation has been complied with in this case. And this is democracy, it's not arrogance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2896	As has just been said by Mr Borten Moes, the obligation to provide information has naturally been central to this debate, as we have received a motion of censure on this basis. I would also like to say very clearly, now at the end of this debate, that of course the Labour Party fully supports the driving rules adopted by the Stortinget itself, in 2002–2003, in the context of the suspension of the so-called Frøiland Committee. The working party worked very intensively with this setting, got completely behind it, and we have followed these driving rules, both in opposition and in position, over the years that have passed since then. It is natural that the Storting should have all the relevant information necessary for the Storing to function as a proper and good national assembly and take the right decisions on the right and informed basis. Then I find that representatives of the opposition say that through this debate and through this day we are trying to set a new standard. I believe that this is politically unsubstantiated, and I believe through this article that we believe, of course, that the obligation to provide information is fully respected in this case. That is why we are on a safe footing when we say no to the motion of censure against Riis-Johansen. I would say – as another aspect of this: this debate should be informative for the consideration of the revised national budget, but it should also provide an indication of the basis for the mistrust proposal. There the opposition has said its own. I hear it and I respect it. However, in the reply exchanges here, particularly with the parliamentary leaders, many relevant questions were raised on our part, which should form the basis of the decisions to be taken by the Stortinget later today. They're not answering. Siv Jensen was asked by our parliamentary leader about a lot of relevant matters. She gave a speech about something quite different. There is also no good practice in this room. I asked the representative Højbrätten about his comment on the previous opinions of his environmental spokesperson that it was possible for the Mongstad development to be postponed. He gave a speech about something quite different. There is also no good practice in a case where these peoples are behind a mistrust proposal against a Council of State. But the price took the representative Solberg, who very badly suggested that the director of Gassnova was instructed by the government to say that it was only now that Gassnova was right to say that it had to be postponed. [[President clubs]] It is a shame to notify an opinion that is not worthy of this opinion. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2908	The President will remind you that speaking time is limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2911	I also think there may be reason to dwell on the information obligation and its content. First, however, let me direct a small historical passer-by to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, because the Stortinget does not have very good experience with this department in providing information where they are to be provided. I remind you that it is only a few months since the Civil Ombudsman had to make a separate announcement to Stortinget because the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen would not provide the Civil Ombudsman with the information he requires under the law. Then the councils made themselves flat in the Storting, and that was good. So, this week, we had the debate yesterday on the encryption of health records. There the government has not followed up the decision of the Storting, nor have they given notice to the Storting that one could not or the power to comply with the decision of the Storting. What is it then that position is able to say as an explanation and perhaps a half-way encounter? It's that, well, you should consider coming back to Stortinget with a proposition about a different date of entry into force. And then we have the matter we are debating today. I have to say that I really feel that the position here sets a different standard for what the information obligation involves. It is okay to think that you have received enough information, but you also have to take responsibility for what standard you now set for what you think is relevant information at the right time. The parties that make up the majority today will probably also be in opposition some day, and then you will have to consider what threshold you have now set for your own understanding of the obligation to provide information. Sometimes during this debate, I have had the feeling that the obligation to provide information almost boils down to the fact that that Stortinget has not come to know otherwise, that the government will come along with it. But it's the opposite that's the standard of government disclosure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2924	I will begin by addressing the proposal in case No. 2, to withdraw the emissions permit at Mongstad. The Minister for the Environment focused on the big picture and talked about the climate challenges in a global perspective, rather than talking about what this case about Mongstad is about on a national scale. The postponement of full-scale cleaning in Mongstad will lead to a significant increase in our national emissions. All 2.5 pst. of Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions, this project in Mongstad — where purification is now at risk — will contribute. At the same time, I remember that we have committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30-40 pst. by 2020. The 2006 Implementation Agreement was an appropriate compromise between the various parties in the government, where the option to clean up in 2014 was to propose to reject Statoil’s request for a concession from the CHP plant or to leave the government offices – or to slip by date. We know what the compromise was, they're slipping on the date compared to the winner who was celebrated with the conclusion of the Soria Moria declaration a year earlier, where it says that all new gas power plants were to be based on CO2 clean-up. And not enough with that, we also know that the SV celebrated Soria Moria statement with a press release that 15 years of gas power plant battle was now over. During the examination of case No. 2, which we are also discussing here today, the Minister for the Environment writes to the Committee: ‘The government wants to implement full scale CO2 management in Mongstad, and it is therefore not appropriate to withdraw the emissions permit. Conditions and deadlines in an emission permit under the pollution law may be amended if this is deemed necessary when framework conditions and assumptions change. A change in the time-limit for taking the investment decision means that changes to the emissions permit must normally be applied for.’;» The answer from the Minister for the Environment is a failure statement for the reduction of greenhouse gases in Norway and undermines our own credibility. The Christian People's Party believes that consistent management of the emissions permit would have been our only credible instrument. We believe that the emissions permit should be withdrawn, that the Ministry of the Environment should then carry out an independent and critical assessment of the terms of the emissions permit based on environmental professional assessments, and that any new emissions permit should contain clear conditions and deadlines ensuring that the clean-up occurs as soon as possible again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2948	The representative Heimdal has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2951	As the case rapporteur for the Mongstad case in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, I would like to make some comments on how I experience the debate. The opposition has documented a lot of information that has been available in the reports. I notice that the position believes that the opposition has been properly informed, but one still cannot show how that information has come to the opposition in her. Yes, it is right that the representative, Mr Solhjell, pointed out in an attempt to take the parliamentary leader in the change of line, that the opposition has obviously been told that there has been a postponement on time, as we can write it in a comitology note. But it's not because we've got that information from the government that we're making the claims and asking those questions. This is because we have extensive contact with professionals. We have calculators that say that if you roll in 2012 and add 4, you get 2016, not 2014. With the construction time everyone is talking about, it would not be possible to reach a goal in 2014, as the government claims. It's no worse than that. But that's exactly what we see, that the government has had information that it was unrealistic to keep talking about 2014. That information had one already in April last year. But one gives the whole story to the Stortinget the impression that 2014 is on track, even though the government knows better. The Prime Minister then claims in the change of line that the information obligation has been complied with. Let me use an example. It goes on this with step-by-step cleaning. Yes, the Stortinget was informed in one sentence in the 2010 state budget that Gassnova among others. assesses step-by-step cleaning. However, the report of 2 October 2009 states that the first stage of clean-up will be put in place in the third quarter of 2015. This means that one no longer fulfils the requirement for purification in 2014. The requirement of the emissions permit is therefore waived. In addition, there is a reduced plant, not a full-scale plant, so it is both delayed and reduced. It does not appear in the information of Stortinget. It only appears that one assesses a step-by-step approach, but not that the scope is reduced and that it is delayed. When we read it in the Progress Party, we interpreted it as that okay, the first turbine will be in place early in 2014, the second step will be in place late in 2014, not that the first step will be in place two years later. There is essential information that Stortinget has not received, and I challenge the red-green, especially the representative of Kolberg and the representative of Borten Moe, who used his contribution to point out that the information obligation has been complied with. When and where has the government informed anyone that this information is available? It is not done, and thus he has not argued in a credible way against the claims made by the opposition. That is why it is a sensible proposal to vote in favour of mistrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2964	The debate is beginning to go to the end – I think at least – and there have been some allegations in the course of the debate. Especially in the line changes early in the day came some claims that cannot be contradicted. One was from the representative of Solberg, who insisted that the interconnection report concluded that it was not possible to reach the original propulsion plan with a full scale sewage treatment plant in 2014. As I pointed out to the representative, the report has more than twenty-one pages, it has some sixty-six pages, and on page 67 there are 13 different solutions that the report concludes can be implemented within the timescales set by the government. So I ask the representative Solberg to clarify it. I have the impression from the representative Solberg that this is the whole report that is the basis for the mistrust, and then it is strange that the representative does not mention that part of the report as well – if it is the basis. For it is clearly stated that there are many different technical solutions that can be realised by 2014. Then it was also claimed from the Right that it had not been informed about the effect of a test centre for the full-scale project, that it was challenging to be able to take advantage of the test centre in the realization of the full-scale project. It's also wrong. Because it is very clear and very clear in the St.prp. No 38 for 2008–2009 that it is challenging. The representative of Solberg also said that they have probably been told to make his recommendation, i.e. that Haugan in Gassnova should have been told to say what he did. It is a very strong claim, and I am surprised that a representative takes the liberty of saying that the government has announced that someone should say something that is not right. I hope that the representative of Solberg confirms that she did not mean it. I don't think she can believe that the government is calling around and telling people to say different things so that it best suits political reality. Finally, I would like to say that the debate here has made it clear that the basis for the motion of censure has been very different from that of the various opposition parties. The whole play of today's debate has been very different. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party were clear on mistrust early, the Right and Left have waited until the last little. Also today there have been very different reasons. Luckily, we have a secure majority in the Chamber that believes that the information obligation is well complied with and has created a good basis in many different rounds when we have discussed the Mongstad case, and Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen will have a safe majority behind us when we go to voting in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2975	We have heard in this debate an opposition with mutual sole reasons for its mistrust of the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen, an opposition which has constantly varied its reasons for mistrust. Then you might wonder: Is this the statement of amines and health hazards, which the Christian People's Party was demonstrably familiar with, but played surprisedly yesterday, which is the reason? Is it Gassnova's report of April 2009, which failed in what Right claims, not a Gassnova recommendation on deferral? If so, how could the opposition notify distrust long before this report was distributed? We've seen an opposition that the last year has varied between knowing and not knowing that there was uncertainty about the timing of Mongstad. The Budgetary Commentary of the Right Party and the Advance Party last year must be particularly embarrassing in this way, and the representative Solvik-Olsen did a little convincing job of expounding it. One of the more crucial moments in the debate, I think, was when Højre's leader, Erna Solberg, from this pulpit said that Gassnova's director was instructed by the government to speak untrue. It's such a serious claim that you can ask yourself why the Right has not promoted distrust of the government on this basis. The answer, of course, is that the claim does not result in correctness. It also knows the right-hand side. Therefore, they should refrain from making such serious accusations in a debate. It's at this point right-hand reasoning falls completely apart. It is only if Gassnova has spoken untruely that it was in March this year that the government received the recommendation to postpone the full-scale cleaning at Mongstad, only if one has spoken falsely about this, that the Right Commentary keeps going. The representative of Solberg's only way out is to make statements that in his essence are as serious as the claims the government has otherwise made against him today, only by the insinuations of the Christian People's Party in the press today that the government is willing to gamble with people's lives and health. The level of concern of the opposition in today's debate has been depressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2986	It was the representative of Hans Olav Syversen who made me take the floor. The facts in the matter of the Christian People's Party's dividend policy – and neither can the Christian People's Party speak away from it – are that the party in the 2010 state budget proposed a greater profit from the NSB than the government did. It has been quite strange to record that this winter, despite this proposal from the Christian People's Party, has, among other things. The Chairman of the Committee, Hareide, criticised the government's dividend policy with regard to the NSB. However, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has come up with better ideas and follows the government's responsible line in terms of profits from the NSB. The Christian People's Party proposal would weaken the NSB greatly, and it's completely wrong in the situation NSB is in. Therefore, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party follows the government's responsible line, and I hope that we do not see any more such proposals from the Christian People's Party. I also record that the Christian People's Party, despite the fact that this whole winter has been the subject of massive criticism from the Christian People's Party against the government and the government's commitment to relations, follows us also at this point in the revised budget. I just want to mention some examples of plays that have come from the Christian People's Party this winter. So you've wanted a big deal on and a new deal on the railway. The Christian People's Party believes that there has been too little money for racial protection, that there has been too little money for roads in the north, that there has been too little money for road safety, and that there has been too little money for E18. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party – when it comes to the issue – follows the government in the draft revised budget. I think that's actually a little eye-catching, considering how the ‘high and dark’ party has been this winter. So the government is once again granting what the Railway Agency is asking for in terms of money for maintenance. The railway station has received and regains what they need to resume the maintenance run. We're also increasing the amount of funding to re-enter road maintenance. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party too now understands that the government's appropriations are at a responsible and proper level, and that we are now being given the opportunity to play out the Christian People's Party which does not have coverage in their own budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e2999	The representative Tryve Battle Force Vedum suggests that the Right cannot read. I can assure him we can. I ask him to read the table on page 66, where it appears that the realization of this will be « [[approx. 2014 until 2015/2016]] One main point is that the assumptions for the entire project have changed. This was communicated in the report of 15 April 2009. It's a different project than the Stortinget founded. There are other assumptions. I believe this is the relevant professional counter-representation. I believe this is information that Stortinget should have had when it took a position at the test centre just a few weeks later. So on several occasions, the opposition knew that there would be a delay. Well, the opposition had been given hints, among other things. because Bjørn-Erik Haugan in Gassnova went out into the media on 19 October 2009 and said that the moon landing would be delayed for two years. Nevertheless, the positioning parties have comments in connection with the State budget, which states that 2014 is firm. We must state that the council knew and had received information from Haugan about this delay, and that he should have informed the Storting about it. He could have done so already in April 2009, before the Stortinget discussed the matter of the test centre in Mongstad, and he could have said so during the debate in Stortinget, where he argued on the contrary that 2014 stood firm, despite having received recommendations and assessments that were contrary to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3012	It is demanding for everyone to follow in this debate, I think. The position strategy has been one thing: trying to pick up as many references as possible to when you have mentioned something in some paper, so it sounds like you've been informed. The problem is that the six lines in the revised national budget did not inform us about these technical things that this report has shown us were there, and that the revised national budget came after the debate on 7 May came after the decisions. Before that, Statoil's master plan was the only information point the government parties had to stick to, which they even stood in the hall here and rejected was correct. I believe that there is a reasonable reason why the Council of State should take the point. Then he should be on this platform and say: I have an interconnection report that may ask some questions about this, which says that 2014 is particularly difficult, and if we are going to go for the 2014 concept, which is probably not realized until 2015 or 2016, we will not get a moon landing, because then it is old, well-known technology that will have to be used in that case. Then I have read the attachment to the report – which Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has mentioned several times – which is a list of possible technologies for so-called short term. However, when summarising the short term in the report, it is said that it is particularly difficult to imagine 2014, which is estimated in 2015–2016 throughout the report. In addition, the description of the short term says that you want to ‘point out that a full scale clean project to follow an aggressive timetable cannot significantly drive technology development’. And that's the whole reason why we're going to spend so much money -- that it's going to be technology development. So to the line change earlier and what others have pointed out: I would like to say that I do not think you are instructing the advice, but there is no doubt that I believe that when you are so concerned about the difference in the advice and this interconnection report, it is clear that you have been informed that you should underline when the advice has come. And there is no one in this room who has tried to say that Gassnova's advice did not come before in ours, but the information report that Stortinget should have known was before April 15, 2009, and no one can argue away from it. And that's what's been the right starting point for this motion of censure. We believe that the information we received after this time has been critical. But our basis for saying that we don't want to go to a criticism, but to a mistrust proposal in this room today, is that the Council of State put in this room with information at a time when the Storting actually decided to deal with the test centre, and where the whole Stortinget was involved in saying that this test centre should be the basis for technology choices, design and other, when you knew better at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3028	Let me first start by saying that I'm glad that the Bear Face corrected its crazy claims in the first post she had. But I would also like to say that perhaps the most ironic post in the Chamber today came from the representative Martin Kolberg who said something like this: We – the government parties – have asked and asked the opposition, and they will not answer. However, the obligation to provide information does not apply to the opposition – that they should inform the position of their positions. What we are discussing here today is that the government has not provided the information that Stortinget believes they need, in a big and serious matter. For me, it's a bit historic to have a serious case that's mistrustful, just on a matter of environment. For the gas power case, Norwegian policy has been very much influenced for a number of years, and it still does. It focuses on the Storting when it comes to issues of gas power. I remember in the spring of 2000, when the gas power case was put on the head for the first time, when the centre government – Bondevik I – chose to ask cabinet questions to prevent the construction of gaseous power plants on Kårstø. Then I had to sign the package both in the box and in the office and go back home to South Africa, but I was proud. I was proud that we had a government that put the environment ahead of the taboos in 2000. I experience that some of the people who stood with us in that fight then – SV and the Centrette – this time have so far chosen the taboo rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3038	I was a little disappointed when I did not get an answer to what I asked for earlier. I have mentioned this with the amin father earlier, and I have known that it would be further researched on. The Council of State has also replied to me in writing in the past. But that there was so much risk, so little knowledge, that this in itself has become time-controlling for the project, we first got access on two days ago in the final report that we have discussed a lot here today. But the report came in April last year. But I just have to repeat that the CO2 management in Mongstad, as far as this report is concerned, is what is called HMS-guided – health, environmental and safety management. Developments in health, the environment and safety are thus guiding the time aspect of the project. It is an important management parameter related to CO2 management on Mongstad that the Storting does not know about. This is, of course, an area in which the local population is very concerned, and which it feels is uncertain. This was addressed, as I mentioned in my article, in the debate in Stortinget on 7 May last year. It was commented by several opposition parties, but none of the government parties – not even the government council – commented on it at the time. I note that no one from the government parties or the state councils is commenting on this either today. So it's possible I'm into something – I don't know!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3053	The fact that one disagrees politically is quite natural. That's why we're also in different parts. But in this case, an overall opposition stands together on the distrust, while the political division of the overall opposition is in two, cf. the policy on the matter. The Progress Party and the Right believe that cleaning is not so important, and really quite strange, and the Christian People's Party and the Left want one to withdraw the emissions permit. So when the representative Eriksen talks about politics, that's what might be the big paradox for many of us today: it's not the policy in the matter that is the background to the mistrust, because it doesn't agree with the opposition. There is a mistrust justified by the obligation to provide information. I believe that the government parties have explained in detail today that the information obligation has been complied with. It is also true that when a promoter of mistrust, which is serious, it should be both illuminated and proved what is the basis for the mistrust, and how that basis can be based on the fact that the information obligation has not been kept. I believe that the opposition has not done so today. I believe – and I am very pleased – that the government parties have clearly refuted the claims that something critical has happened. Finally, on the health risk. An overall committee has a background in, inter alia: what was also in the master plan of Statoil, which was duly referred to there, about the health risk, just said that it looks one to be serious, because we do not put people's health at risk. Neither do any of the three government parties in this case. So it's going to be wrong to claim that this is an information that came out yesterday in this so-called interconnection report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3062	Then the next speaker is Ketil Solvik-Olsen. Questions have been raised as to whether the representative Solvik-Olsen has more speaking time than other representatives, and that is correct. Under paragraph 35(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the Advocates-General and the Councils of State, in this case Sigbjørn Johnsen and Terje Riis-Johansen, do not have the same restrictions in the number of times they can speak. The same applies to the Prime Minister and parliamentary leaders. I am asking that it be not perceived as an invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3069	No, we're going to try to limit ourselves. There are two claims hanging in the air. I believe that the post of the representative Astrup proved more than enough that the reports we have received are a basis for mistrust. That the representative Sund claims something else without justifying it with a single example just shows how bad arguments you have. So you try to give an idea that the opposition is divided into the rationale for the criticism and for the distrust. Then I ask the representatives who claim it to read the settings. There are 10 pages set in the setting that only applies to the Mongstad case. Seven-eight of those sides are comments from an overall opposition. And then there's a couple of small special comments that don't diverge from the content of the case, but that's more about the historical perspectives. How can you claim - with seven-eight pages in the setting so closely written as this - that the opposition is split in the way you view this? It's also just an attempt to confuse listening and isn't part of the reality. Then the representative Serigstad Valen thought that the signing and opposition had a bad explanation when we wrote in the budget position last autumn that we believe it has been notified of a postponement. In the same setting, the government parties maintain that it is to be cleaned in 2014, so it is obvious – only implicitly – that when the government parties maintain in 2014, at least no signal has come from the government about a postponement. However, the Director of Gassnova, the executive body of the government, as Environment Minister Erik Solheim at the hearing of the Energy and Environment Committee, said are the best in the world in CO2 clean technology assessments, so today’s industry on 19 October 2009 – on page 14, for you who note: ‘There is a project planning of the full scale plant. What we're working on is still an investment decision in 2012. But we have seen that construction times have increased, and that it is likely to take three-four years from investment decision to completion.» When the Director of Gassnova – the body of the government has set to be the executive operator for this, and as Environment Minister Erik Solheim has said is the best in the world – says three to four years from 2012, there is a clear warning in my ears that Gassnova believes that 2015 to 2016 is the earliest you will receive full scale clean-up, given that you are able to comply with the deadline of 2012. Now neither the 2012 deadline nor the schedule you had with the emissions permit can be met. When we're not going to be able to call it an alert, what in all days are we going to call something so obvious? I don't think a director of a government agency goes into a newspaper and says something like that in an accident. This he says because there is a conviction that his organization has. I am reasonably convinced that this has been communicated to the Council of State, because in the same interview the Council of State is also involved. He was there. It is obvious that the Council of State must have known this, but the Stortinget was not formally informed that this information had come to the government. There he has broken the information obligation, and it can be documented in today's business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3094	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3097	It is not intended to withdraw the debate for a very long time, but the representative Sund made me draw when she, once again, repeats the claim that the Right does not believe that cleaning is important. I would just like to say once and for all that the Right is positive that Norway will play an important role in developing CO2 capture and storage technologies. We have voted in favour of this in all relevant contexts. Then she also says that she has not got the basis for the mistrust. Then she has obviously not been present in the hall. I refer her to the minutes of the debate, especially my intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3107	The representative Line Henriette Hemdal has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3110	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen believes that the signed player is surprised when it comes to amine. Firstly, the Christian People's Party does not play any game in this matter. We've gone into reality, and I also recommend the government parties here at Stortinget to do that. And in reality, it says in the report we got on Wednesday: ‘CO2 handling in Mongstad is HMS controlled due to uncertainty related to amine emissions’.» This is quite different from what Stortinget got presented on 13 January 2009. Let me quote: «However, taking into account current knowledge, it is considered that there will be no environmental damage to emissions or significant odour problems.» That's what St.prp says. No 38 for 2008-2009 in relation to the test centre. That's a completely different information. We don't play. We're going into reality, and these are serious realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3130	It was not just the flower bouquet next to the pulpit today that made the day a little different than I expected it to be. I must honestly admit that I thought this would be different. I thought this was going to be a government that admitted that there might be things you could have done differently. I had expected a tone in Parliament that is about when someone feels that some rules are broken, some are humiliating listening. It hasn't been like that. On the other hand, it has been a cock fight, which I believe is not really worthy of Parliament. It has been a characteristic of others and a change of rules, from the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party in particular, as I had not expected. I had thought that the day would be different. We in the left went open into this. But we have experienced a government that does not answer questions. We're sending letters to state councils. We don't even get an explanation as to why we don't get an answer. We experience reports that are sent to some parties, first in the form of burka reports, then the niqab version comes, but the hijab version never came. We felt that you don't listen to what the others are saying, which I think devalues the policy. It makes the policy look like a sandbox, with the representative Sund sitting at the bottom, holding his ears and saying, "I don't hear, I don't hear, I don't hear, and with an environmental protection minister standing at the top of the sand heap and jumping, and saying, "I'm king, anyway." I thought this was going to be different. But at least there's no doubt about what's going to be the Left's vote. We're going to support the mistrust proposal that's on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3139	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. In the case of cases No. 3–14 – the President asks for peace in the Chamber, so maybe it doesn’t have to be so late – asks the President for the House’s approval of the No. 3–14, all of which have been submitted from the meeting on 14 June, issues in which no debate is usually requested, can be dealt with together. [[Votation, see pages 4417 and 4465]] Of course, things have to be voted on separately, but the President is asking us to take any debate together. The President considers that it has been approved by the Chamber. Is there anyone who is asking for the floor for case number? 3–14, which is considered to be referenced? [16:19:09] - It's not. Case No. 3-14 on the agenda was as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3326	Before we go to voting, Councillor Sigbjørn Johnsen will convey propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3334	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3342	During the debate, 105 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 10 and 11, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 12, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposals No. 13 and 14, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 15, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 16-18, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 19-21, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposals No. 22-24, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 25-46, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 47 and 48, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 49 to 57, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 58 to 63, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 64-67, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 68-84, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 85-104, by Mr Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left, proposal No. 105, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left The proposals are included on pages 292 to 322 of the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 105, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 105, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, is a motion of censure. The President will vote on this proposal first. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Statsrådet Terje Riis-Johansen has not fulfilled the obligation to inform Stortinget in the case of the construction of test centres and full scale CO2 cleaning in Mongstad. The Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen does not have the confidence of the Stortinge." In line with the tradition of dealing with mistrust proposals in Stortinget, there will be petitions on roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 1 from the Nordland state. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e3428	No one was away. We shall then vote on the other proposals put forward under case No. 1, and we start with the suggestions from the smallest fraction. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 85 to 104, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e5917	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 68-84, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: 221parents’ sample of primary education71Additions to development of music and cultural schools, increased by 1 000 000 from € 9 613 000 to € 11 113 000225projects of primary education71Additions to development of music and cultural schools, increased by 1 000 000 from € 9 413 000 to € 10 413 000226Quality development of primary education21Special operational expenditure, may be transferred, increased by 55 103 000 from € 1 043 566 000 to NOK 1 098 669 000228Additions of private schools, allocated by 10 000 000231Children65Facilities of education for children, increased by 4 000 000 from € 5 805 706 000 to € 1 101 758 000Additions of private schools, etc. [[NY]] 441 item 1, increased by203 658 000refunds, reduced by 198 300 000from NOK 50 600 896 000from NOK 951 850 000605The operating costs, increased by 17 300 000 from DKK 9 265 901000 from NOK 9 283 201 000from NOK 901 250 000 from NOK 901 50 000 from NOK 951 850 000605The operating costs, increased by 17 300 000 from NOK 220 80 000 from DKK 9 265 901 000 from NOK 9 283 201 000The working and well-being seat70The contributions to health and rehabilitation services for the sick can be transferred, increased by 17 500000 from NOK 220 80 000 to NOK 238 38 000634Work market measures76The contributions for the jobseekers can be transferred, increased by 29 200 000 from NOK 207 000 from NOK 207 000 from NOK 307 000 from NOK 307 000 from NOK 307 000from NOK 307 000 from NOK 307 000from NOK 307 000from NOK 307 000 from EUR to NOK 797 000 from NOK 797 000 from NOK 21Special operating costs, can be spent under heading 70, increased by NOK 29 837 000 to NOK 49 837 000842Operating costs, can be used under heading 70, increased by 5 000 000 from NOK 193 176 000 to NOK 198 176 000Family protection70Contributions to the church's family protection service, etc., can be used under item 1, increased by 5 000 000 from NOK 124 107 000 to NOK 129 107 000 to NOK 129 107 000854Efforts in child and youth protection71Development and information work, etc., can be used under item 50, increased by 20 000 000 from NOK 48 048 000 to NOK 68 048 00085 [[NY]] Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2010, the Decision of the Storting on the levying of alcoholic beverages for the 2010 budgetary mine shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e7920	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 64-67, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own Tax Fund governing body, with a majority of user representatives.’; Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the study aid to 11 months from the autumn of 2010.’» Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with proposals for measures to ensure adequate funding for outpatient physiotherapy.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals to ensure the continued operation of the Physical Institute of the Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismosykhus.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e7952	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 58 to 63, from the right. Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: 151Aid to Asia78Regional allocations of 500 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budges, 500budges, 500budgets, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budgets, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges from 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budges, 500budgets, 500budges, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500b all [[NY]] 441 item 1, increased by 117 658 000 from NOK 8 924 155 000 to NOK 9 041 813 000441Oslo police district:1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 4002400 000 from NOK 400000 from NOK 400000 from NOK 400000 from NOK 400000 from NOK 60, reduced by NOK 400 667 000 from NOK 2 756 867 000 from NOK 2 356 20 000 from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs22Special operating costs, interpretation and translation, reduced by NOK 39 300 000 from NOK 89 813 000 from NOK 50 513 000 from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs60 from the Office of the Government of asylum seekers and refugees, reduced by EUR 29 234 000 from NOK 235 220 000 to NOK 205 986 000 from the Directorate of Foreign Affairs70 from the Office of the Administration of the Government of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Member of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Member of the Kingdom of the Member of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Member of the Member of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Member of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Member of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Kingdom of the Member of the Member of the Kingdom of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2010, Decision No 26 November 2009 of the Storting is amended as follows: \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e9475	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e9480	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e9485	The President then proposes that we vote again on the proposal No. 58 to 63 from the Right, so that others may not confess to their bread.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e9498	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 49 to 57, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner928 Unpaid research effort71 Grants, granted at 40 000 0005506Gifts and gifts70Treasure, reduced by 63 000 000 from NOK 1 400 000 to NOK 1337 000» [[GRUNTING]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2010, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on the levy on the State Treasury on the inheritance and gifts of the 2010 budgetary mine is hereby amended as follows:’.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2011 State Budget, to return to the Stortinget with a proposal for a legislative proposal on the introduction of rules on the provision of a fund scheme for individual enterprises in accordance with the Swedish «expansion funds» scheme.’» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a system of standard health notification periods, based on expected health notification following known diagnosis.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Nav’s use ofresources is greater during the sick pay period. Participation in rehabilitation or rehabilitation during the sick pay period shall not affect sick pay.’;» Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of the use of medical andrehabilitation medical counsellors in the field of absenteeism, which may complement their medical assessments.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the availability of capacity in the rehabilitation and rehabilitation industries to be put into service in order to achieve the objective of sick leave.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to eliminate the tax on benefits paid by employers in respect of treatment costs and treatment insurance.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the 2011 government budget to provide an assessment of the effect of fully or partially erasing climate allowances rather than selling them in the market compared to designating the benefit of the allowances sale to other emission reduction measures, and to propose either a reduction in allowances or the designation of sales gains to climate action.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e9614	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47 and 48, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner2410 State loan fund for education70Education grant, estimate, reduced by 1,680 000 from NOK 2 733 815 000 to NOK 2 732 135 0002661Funding and auxiliary assistance, aids etc.75Improvement of the function, resources, reduced by 160 000 000 from NOK 3 049 300000 to NOK 2 889 300 0005521Additional value charge70Amendment, increased by 55 400 000 from NOK 189 600 000 to NOK 189 655 400 000’» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2010, the decision of the Storting is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e9732	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25 to 46, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: 260Universities and colleges50Statistical universities and colleges, increased by 6 334 000from NOK 22 554 756 000 to NOK 22 561 090 000326Language, literature and library purposes1Operating expenditure, reduced by 10 000 000 from NOK 428 591 000 to NOK 418 591 000410Integrating rights and rights of the team1Operating expenditure, increased by 69 420 000 from NOK 1 448 866 000 to NOK 1 518 286 000430Integration expenditure, reduced by 14 900 000 from NOK 3 230 179 000 to NOK 3 215 279 000440Politial Directorate – police and public administration1Operating expenditure, can be used under the heading. 441 item 1, increased by 277 658 000 from NOK 8 924 155 000 to NOK 9 201 813 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 440 item 1, increased by97 900 000 items, increased by 23 900 000 from DKK 24 652 511 000 to NOK 24 676 411 000634working market measures21 Trials, development measures etc., may be carried over, increased by 8 800 000 from DKK 71 880 000 to NOK 77 669 00076Actions for job seekers can be transferred, increased by 347 000 000 from DKK 7 207 820 000 to NOK 7 55 000. Special operating costs, increased by 700 000 from NOK 77 969 000 to NOK 78 669 000732Regional health enterprises80 Purchases of private capacity, granted by 450 000 00084. [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2010, the decision of the Storting regarding excise duties to the State Treasury for the 2010 Budgetary Mine on the levy on alcohol shall be amended as follows: [[(chapter. 5526, 70):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e10985	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22-24, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones634Work market measures21Tests, development measures, etc., may be carried over, increased by 6 300 000 from NOK 71 880000 to NOK 78 180 0005531Taxes on tobacco products70Taxes, increased by 110 000 000 from NOK 8 218 000 to NOK 8 328 000» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2010, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on the levying of tobacco products for the 2010 budgetary period shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11138	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–21, from the Party of Advancement and the Left. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner645Regional protection ombudsman scheme in the hotel and restaurant industries and the cleaning industry70In addition to start-up capital, reduced by 6 000 000 from NOK 6 000 000 to NOK 0’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to abolish the concession requirement of Post Norway for the obligation to maintain full banking services.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate the government’s voluntary purchase scheme for climate allowances.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11204	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16–18, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PurposeCroner300Ministry of Culture1Operating expenditure, reduced by 5 000 000 from DKK 104 423 000 to DKK 99 423 000320General cultural purposes79For the purpose of the project, can be used under item 1, reduced by 5 000 000 from DKK 15 000 000 to NOK 10 000 000430Criminal care’s central administration70Government, increased by 500 000 from NOK 20 631000 to NOK 21 131 000’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up guidelines for the distribution of funds under the heading of the State budget. 430 item 70 ensuring greater predictability and longer-term operational basis for the organisations.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the extension of the railway project for new double-track Oslo-Ski to Halden’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11317	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Nav introduces the monthly filing of notification cards and the payment of redundancy payments.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11332	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: 315Freedom of movement82 Value added tax compensation in the construction of sports facilities, may be transferred, granted at 75 000 000490Foreign directorate of residence72Return and return for refugees, may be transferred, increased by 38 300 000 from 50 104 000 to 88 404 000733Habilitation and rehabilitation21Special operating costs, may be used under heading 79, increased by 2 500 000 from NOK 17 719 000 to NOK 20 219 0005536For motor vehicles etc.77For oil consumption charges for motor vehicle propulsion [[NY]] [[autodiesel fee]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2010, Decision No 26 November 2009 on the levying of non-alcoholic beverages, etc. is amended as follows: for the 2010 budget:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11476	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCross5501Taxes on wealth and income73Taxes on worked-up liabilities in shipping companies reduced by 3 788 000 000 from NOK 1250 000 000 to NOK -2 538 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11533	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Cape TownContributions to private schools etc.76Other private schools, estimate appropriations, increased by 4 000 000 from NOK 35 684 000 to NOK 39 684 000761Services67Development measures, increased by 132 500 000 from NOK 36 882 000 to NOK 169 382 000» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for exemption from VAT for e-books in the State budget for 2011.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11620	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–9, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a system that indexes the amounts for, respectively. self-executed and purchased R & D in the Tax Fund scheme each year.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the fixed contribution to the M/S Gann and M/S Schoolships should be assessed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade instead of the Ministry of Knowledge, so that it can be better seen in the context of the Government’s maritime strategy.’ [[Rogaland Seaspirant School]] [[Southern Maritime College]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate, as soon as possible, the establishment of chiropractor training in Norway through the establishment of education and necessary research in the training.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the Husbank’s guidelines on the allocation of grants to nursing homes and housing organised for the care and care of the lucky day so that grants can be awarded to municipalities regardless of the actors the municipality wants to cooperate with for the development itself.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary amendments to the State Pension Fund Act, so that state pensioners who retired before 1 May 2000 are treated in the same way as other state pensioners. The entry into force of this amendment is 1 January 2011.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before the Stortinget during the autumn of 2010 for the construction of the City Tunnel.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch the following 3 road projects as public–private cooperation E18 Akershus – Sweden border Rv 7 Sokna – Örgenvika E39 south of Bergen [[(OPS):]] [[Rådal-Svega tree]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals in the 2011 government budget to an improved individual pension saving scheme with annual deductions from general income for annual payments of up to SEK 40000, while introducing a symmetric tax on the deductions for payments to and payments from the scheme.’» [[included costs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e11684	Now that we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the parties, in line with the practice of the revision of the national budget, are prepared to abstain from the vote they would normally vote on at the final vote – this in order to avoid a time-consuming and, in part, complicated voting where the result has been given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23418	During the debate Line Henriette Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to withdraw the emissions permit to Mongstad Energy Works.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23445	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: ‘The government requests the promotion of corporate governance for public enterprises with a view to introducing the same corporate governance requirements for public administration activities as for public limited-liability companies’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23464	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: «The government asks the Government to amend the public limited-liability company law so that gender representation in the board is required only in listed companies.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23483	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left at the meeting of the European Parliament on 14 June 2010: ‘The size of the scheme assumes that the requirement for evidence of hard work on values and services resulting from sports is withdrawn and that, as a result, it becomes the central organisation to document the scope of voluntary efforts on behalf of the total mass of members.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23502	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, presented at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: ‘The government asks the Government to present a new case to include sports and cultural activities, as well as other voluntary teams and organisations, in the VAT system, so that they receive a zero rate for outbound billing and a full deduction of inward invoices.’ [[normally 25 pst.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23521	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left, presented at the meeting on 14 June 2010 of the Grand Duchy: ‘The government is asked to present a new case to integrate sports and cultural activities, as well as other voluntary teams and organisations, into the VAT system. The new proposal must be designed in such a way that all sport is exempt from VAT on ticket sales, purchase, rental and sale of players and that it must be possible for museums, galleries, amusement parks and entertainment centres to have free access, but nevertheless enter the new VAT system.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23541	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: ‘The Government is asked to adopt an amending regulation of 19 November 1999 No 1158 Regulation of the Tax Code so that the maximum hourly rate is removed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23560	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: ‘The Government is asked to adopt an amending regulation of 19 November 1999 No 1158 Regulation of the Tax Code, so that the provision of maximum hours per the employee is removed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23579	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and the Left at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: «The government asks the Government to repeal § 18-2 of the corresponding regulation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23598	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: «The government is asked to make proposals for amendments to the tax law that involve deduction so that companies that have made environmental investments do not receive a higher total burden than companies that have not made such investments.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23617	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: ‘The Government is asked to adopt an amending regulation of 19 November 1999 No 1158 Regulation of the Tax Code, which repeals the rule on the maximum hourly rate of 500 kroner and the maximum number of hours per year for own employees of 1850 hours as from 1 January 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23636	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: «The government is asking the government to raise the wage-earning obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to $8,000 per year. employed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23655	The vote will take place on the proposal by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party, presented at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2010: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to convert public service pensions into net schemes during 2011.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-18.ana.ud2093e23799	Since we are now finishing the last meeting of this session, the President will wish all the representatives a good holiday and thank you for a good cooperation in the first year of this period. The President is pleased that we managed to get to summer without passing midnight in any meetings. This is due to the great and good cooperation of all representatives. Now the representatives must have a well-deserved holiday. It probably won't be as long as the rumors say. I know that many representatives include: both on a mission and on a journey on behalf of the Committee during the holidays. Therefore, I say good luck with all the important work to be done before Stortinget gathers in plenary, and have a good holiday in parts of the same period. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
