ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e113	The representative Wenche Olsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e130	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e139	Getting the opportunity to organize big sporting events is very desirable, and there is often a hard fight to get rid of the winner. Many of us felt the victory rush when in 1994 the Winter Olympics were awarded to Lillehammer, with the then IOC President Samarach's famous words: «The decision is Lillehammer.» And for those who did not get there, the councilman in Åre best remembers when he put words to his feelings through the following statements: «I am not disappointed, I am angry!» It is strong words, but also an expression of what it means for the candidate countries to be awarded large events such as the Olympic, the EM and the World Cup – regardless of sport. Today, the Stortinget is invited to decide on a state grant of 70 million. kr to Tromsø to arrange the chess-OL in 2014 but under the clear assumption that they are awarded the event. The fight seems to be between Norway and Bulgaria. It's nice to be able to say that there is a joint committee in favour of the vote. A unanimous decision will probably strengthen the application to the International Chess Federation. Chess-OL is a giant sporting event, much bigger than me and many with me have believed. It's just summer-OL that's larger. The experience of the latest chess-OL events shows that it will take over 1,300 players from 150 countries. There will probably be 600 delegates, and a lot of accredited journalists will be present, plus the traveling audience. There may be a lot of numbers, but just to make sure that the amount of chess is visible, numbers show that there are over 600 million chess players in the world, and 7.5 million of them play organized. In Norway, there are 500,000 players, of whom 7 000 are organized. And among the 600 million players, our own Magnus Carlsen is ranked as one of the world's best, perhaps the best. It says a little about his achievements, but it also shows that you can become a very good chess player even if you come from a small country like Norway. We're told through the hearings that there are many good players in the line behind Magnus Carlsen, and many are very talented. We are therefore confident that Norway will provide a good layer under the OL in 2014. It is reassuring to know that the Norwegian Chess Federation and the Youth Chess Federation are working well to recruit more chess players, with a special focus on children and young people. This must be acknowledged by both parties. Such an event is so infinitely much more than just the game. In the context of travel life, a chess OL in Tromsø can provide an extra boost for the country, for the region and especially for Tromsø with its surrounding area. We know that the Olympics at Lillehammer have contributed to many visits to our country, especially before and during the event, but also after. 14 days ago, we were the organizer of Eurovision Song Contest. The slogan that was «Share The Moment» – and we did it, along with 150 million people around the world. We all have great hopes that the same will happen when the clock is started in Tromsø once in 2014. It was therefore nice to record that the travel industry was present during the hearing. It is important for the industry to start profiling its travel experience in North Norway once the decision has been taken today. I guess the government's granted 50 million. kr to a separate profiling company for North Norway. Last week the company launched its new brand with the following content: ‘Northern Norway – It’s a different story’. It is our common wish that those visiting the district and Tromsø in connection with a chess OL – and of course otherwise – should be able to tell their own story about their experiences during and after their stay. The Committee shares the hope that chess-OL will also be a valuable signal event for profiling the whole region, in line with the other major events in Norway. A chess-OL is also a technologically advanced exercise. We know that millions of people will follow the game through the Internet. The figures from the Chess-OL in Dresden show that there were over 65 million daily ‘web hits’ against the official web pages. It tells us that the chess world will be present, either physically or online. Both parts can and must be used in maximum use, for the profiling of the national compartment. With the use of new and existing technologies, the Committee believes that new boundaries can be exploded in the communication of chess, and it will be exciting to see where we are in 2014. In any case, such an event will provide very useful event experiences and valuable competences, which will benefit many. We will wish Tromsø good luck in his further work! In October, everything will be settled under Shakk-OL in Khanty-Mansijsk. It is to hope that Tromsø will not be put in a checkmate, but appears to win the game through the statement 'the decision is Tromsø'.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e179	It is a unanimous position, and the Committee fully agrees, but in some areas we have made our own comments. I'll just take a little bit of that. Let me first give tribute to the work done by the applicants on this OL request. We've had some rounds, at least in the media, of other OL applications from Tromsø, which have not been as well founded as this one is. Here you have done a good and realistic job, and it's good to see. I can only join in what the rapporteur has said about the project and the boast he has given. However, what we are a little bit concerned about is, of course, the uncertainty that rests around the project. That will always do, but what has also come to light is that you probably have to hold a prom championship as part of a world cup tournament. As indicated in the setting, the cost will be approximately 2 million. dollar. It is clear that there is a lot of money, especially at a time like this, given both the national and international economic situation and the turmoil affecting the world market, because some of this necessarily also needs to be captured by other contributors. So that leads to some uncertainty. I expect the government, once you say yes to 70 million. kr, even after the allocation has been put in place, the dialogue with the applicant organisations continues, simply to ensure that everything is going on and that the economy is solid and documented at the bottom of it all. For the owner of this championship, the main shareholder of the municipality of Tromsø, is not exactly a municipality that is solid in terms of the economy. I agree with the rapporteur on the importance this may have for travel life in both Tromsø and the part of the country, and also in Norway. There are things I've been bringing up in this room for many, many years. I have missed a trip life message to the Stortinget, where you simply have to discuss the whole of your travel life, because the travel life falls not into just one department, but into the vast majority of departments. So it would have been an advantage to see the whole thing in that particular part. But I want the applicants to be happy, and then we get to hope that we're the ones who put the other checkmates in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e192	Does the President understand correctly that Mr Øyvind Håbreek is asking for the floor for a five-minute post? The representative's nodding. Then the President sees himself having to do a short skirt, as it is called in this terminology, and the Council of State has to wait until after Hope has held its five-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e195	I'm sorry I'm drawing a little late, but the president showed an ability to pull quickly, and that's also important in this connection. It is an important decision today by the Stortinget to adopt — unanimously — support for the application for grants in order to organise a possible chess OL in Tromsø in 2014. Chess is not a very big sport in Norway, but it is a big international sport. As many people who have worked on this process have become more aware, there are great opportunities to locate such an event in Norway. If we succeed in drawing the longest straw in Khanty-Mansijsk in Russia in the autumn, we will attract activity, interest and an event to Norway that will have a significant marketing impact for Norway, for Tromsø and for the whole of the northern part of the country. The work on the application has been organised by the company Sjakk Tromsø 2014 AS, with the municipality of Tromsø and the Norwegian Chess Federation as the main drivers. Here, important work has been done to ensure that Norway is now in a good position towards the final round, before the final elections are to be made. A total of 150 participating countries are expected to participate in a possible chess OL in Tromsø in 2014, and it also shows that this is an opportunity that we should seize. This is an opportunity that we should work actively to exploit, and make every effort to draw this event to Tromsø by 2014. I also mention that the Christian People's Party has participated in a comment asking the Ministry to look at the possibilities of contributing to the extraordinary or unforeseen expenses arising from the imposition of a probationary championship.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e210	I am pleased that the Committee supports the government's proposal for a state grant to organise the Chess-OL in Tromsø in 2014. A chess-OL in Tromsø will in itself be a boost for Tromsø, North Norway and for Norway. We're talking about a formidable event. Only summer-OL has more participating countries than chess-OL. In addition to the event, there will be a number of positive ring-effects, not least for travel, export-oriented business and reputation in general for the region. These include: a comprehensive regional travel, cultural and experience offer with Sami participation. This is anchored in the Sameeting. A chess OL in Tromsø will undoubtedly also have much to say about the spread of the chess in Norway and to clarify the importance of the chess for the learning and development of children, young people and adults. I would also like to point out that the work of strengthening Tromsø as a central, international meeting place in the north is a natural step in the follow-up to the government's North Region Initiative. A chess OL in Tromsø will help create sustainable growth and development in the northern regions and is therefore clearly in line with the intentions of this strategy. It is now clear that Tromsø’s only competitor is Varna in Bulgaria. It's a strong competitor, but I have a great hope that the Chess-OL will be awarded to Tromsø. The organizer company Sjakk Tromsø 2014 AS, jointly owned by the municipality of Tromsø and the Norwegian Chess Federation, has done a very good job so far. With regard to the comments of the members of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party on unforeseen expenses for the competition and the comments of the Progress Party that the grant will not be price adjusted, I would point out that the organisers – provided that Tromsø is awarded the event – will receive a grant from the State of 70 million. kr. This is the same amount as the organiser company requested in its application to the department. 70 million. kr is the country’s final contribution to the event, and in this amount there are also certain reserves. It is the organisers' responsibility, together with the municipality of Tromsø and the Norwegian Chess Federation, to organise the Olympics, including any competitions, within the financial framework available. I am convinced that they will do so in an excellent way. Now let's hope that Tromsø wins. It will be a well-earned victory and a great challenge for the whole region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e229	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e232	It is not so often signed and the Council of State agrees on a matter, so it might be a little unnecessary to take a reply, but I would really just ask the Council of State if – once you have granted these 70 million – you are still going to have a dialogue with the organiser and the applicant, just to ensure the quality of the work that is being done, and, with regard to the uncertainty that I pointed out in my post, also look at the possibility if there is a need for more resources along the way. The second thing I would like to ask the Council of States is that it is pointed out in the proposal and also in the comment from the Committee on the importance this may have for travel life in the region, for Tromsø and for North Norway. We in the Progress Party have called for a travel message in this room year after year after year. When does it come, so that we get a comprehensive strategy on travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e239	With regard to the notification of travel life, the representative may raise the question with the Minister for Enterprise and Trade as being responsible for the tourism industry in Norway. With regard to the issue of unforeseen expenditure, it has always been within the organiser’s application basis. $12 million. kr, or 10 pst. out of the budget, was allocated to unforeseen expenditure. That's why it's 70 million. the final proposal for State grants, and it will not be appropriate to provide additional funds. That's what the organizer asked for. We have not tampered with it, rather on the contrary, in the original draft budget, a state grant of 68.3 million was taken into account. kr. Then we agreed that the final application would be 70 million. So we haven't actually negotiated it down at all, rather on the contrary. And there's a good margin in this budget for unforeseen expenditure, so I'm convinced that the organizers can do this within the existing framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e246	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e252	There are some things that are of the happy kind, and that, on the other hand, have a cross-political uproar. This is the case – a collective family and culture committee agrees to comply with Tromsø’s application for State aid to organise the chess-OL in 2014. When I take the floor here today, it is because I have followed this case from the idea was born, through the first conversations between the management of the municipality of Tromsø and the Norwegian Chess Federation, to connected from a thorough assessment, Tromsø chose as the candidate city that you consider best suited to take such a vow as a chess-OL is. Chess-OL is a big event. 150 countries will participate, and there will be broadcasts from the event over the Internet and TV. There are over 600 chess players around the world, and many of them are children and young people. Chess is not only a game and a sport that is exciting and entertaining, it is also a challenging activity purely intellectual. Chess helps to strengthen players' logical and strategic abilities, and there's reason to be proud that here in Norway we have one of the world's best chess players in Magnus Carlsen. I'm glad he's now on the team that's going to promote Tromsø's application internationally and hopefully convince the International Chess Federation FIDE that'most of it is north', as the poet Rolf Jacobsen says in his famous poem. I was given the opportunity to meet FIDE's Vice President, Israel Gelfer, when he visited Tromsø earlier this year. He expressed great enthusiasm for both the city of Tromsø, the environment and not least for the content and substance of Tromsø's application. Gelfer also stated that he believes it is a great advantage for Tromsø and Norway that at the time of his visit there was already a clearly positive signal from the Ministry of Culture to support a chess-OL in Norway with the requested amount of 70 million. kr. No other potential applicants could agree at that time, according to Gelfer, sail if he also reminded us that there are both formal and – let's say – informal elements that count when FIDE's management is going to make its choice. I am pleased that the government has said a clear yes to Tromsø's application for a grant of 70 million. NOK if we were now to have the permission to arrange the chess-OL. I heard what the council said about the test-OL that came after. Despite her clear answer, I hope you can at least have a dialogue about that. Then I am pleased that North Norway and Tromsø can have a unique chance to show that it is fully possible to organise a major international championship in our northern part of the country. And Tromsø is ready – whether it's chess-OL, which now, or winter-OL, when that time had to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e267	This is a matter for which there is a broad consensus – such as a really good and pleasant case – and I guess we're just going to sign out here and wish you luck. There are, however, a few small comments I would like to add to what has already been said, even though the Right therefore joins the fine introduction of the rapporteur, as I think this was well described. One is that $70 million. kr is touching little money in relation to the volume of the event we are talking about. It's a huge event. In that sense, the state contribution is not very, very high. I think that's also agreed. So I noticed the Council's response in the line change with the representative Korsberg, that 12 million. kr, or 10 pst. of the budget, intended for unforeseen expenditure. To be honest, I don't think that's very much. In relation to the size of the event, I think that should be the case. I expect the Council of State has noticed that in this case she has a goodwill to deal with. Although the Council of State did not respond to – as I could at least hear – the question asked by the representative of Korsberg, whether she would keep in touch with the organizers in the future, I think she will. I would like to stress that it is very important. I hope that the government – the Council of State – will communicate well with the Stortinget. If there are cuttings in the sea, things that have to be handled, and that have to be within the Storting, I think she'll take today's debate as an invitation to that here the Storing will be positive and set up if necessary, because we know the evolution of this type of big events, there's things happening along the way. I have an understanding of the government's need to emphasize that $70 million. $70 million. kr – there is no door on the slippery side. Nevertheless, there may be crossroads where it may be good to talk to each other, and where, perhaps with relatively small grips, a large event can be loosed ashore. In doing so, we support the government's excellent proposals, but also invite further cooperation, so that we can work together to do our best to keep this ashore.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e282	The councils are nodding. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3820]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e300	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e309	It is a unanimous attitude of the Committee, and it may in principle seem unnecessary to take a major debate on it. I'm not going to add up to that either. Nevertheless, the matter is invited to some important reflections on cultural policy and social development that I think deserve to come up with in this context. There are both cultural and control needs that have led us to have a concession scheme for the marketing of video. Among other things, an important relationship has controlled the video industry for the protection of children and young people. However, the Christian People's Party shares the Ministry's assessment that there is reason to believe that the scheme is not being used to a large extent as a control instrument. It also doesn't work after the intention. We see that the way it is today, and the way that development has been, not least in the field of technology, is good reason to do something about the system. It has played its part in many ways. With regard to the age limit for sale over disk, the Christian People's Party is satisfied that the limit remains 18 years, which has been reached by the Ministry after consultation. However, although the abolition of the present concession regime is a rational adjustment, the only supervisory body in this area is now the police. Societal development, where regulatory instruments disappear, makes us increasingly dependent on society's attitudes and values. Unwanted content in the media, film and video is e.g. violence and pornography. In the new reality, we lose some of the traditional tools. As a result, the importance of good attitudes in school and education is becoming increasingly important. The fight against violence and the fight against pornography, and thus also the fight for equality, must be strengthened through awareness-raising work both at school and elsewhere. Freedom is a prerequisite for a worthy life. Freedom shall be subject to security and freedom of expression. The sex and violence industries lead to impunity, not least for women. The fight against violence and porn is a struggle for equality. In a society where we are losing more and more regulatory opportunities, the current attitudes of society, what is defined as good and right, and the individual awareness of it, are very important in order to have an equal society and a good society. The whole human view of Christian democracy strongly emphasizes personal freedom, but also personal responsibility. Your own freedom must never be at the expense of our neighbor's freedom. We are all related to our fellow human beings and dependent on sharing with others. Media content that is grossly offensive to other people does not create freedom, and relaxed attitudes to films where women are exploited are a sign of weakness in a society. That's why mind-creating work and the awareness of our basic values are so important in meeting the new reality. In the fight for gender equality, there is also no room for offending films or other media content with pornography. The issue we are dealing with is as far as technology and the necessary adaptation to a modern society are concerned. Yet it challenges us to reflect on how we build safe societies, equal societies and good societies in the face of the new reality. And right there, building good attitudes and value awareness is increasingly important in meeting technological reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e330	I am pleased that a joint committee has supported the government's proposal for amendments to the film and videogram law. These amendments invalidate the municipal video concession scheme. When I was a kid and turned into a lexicon when I was wondering about something, a law was introduced that would regulate the marketing of video. At the time, the debate was quite different from today. Then the general tone of the debate was that the video was initially negative. It was then thought that if you had control of the municipality's control of those who would rent out videos, you would get a good control. It may have been an instrument that was appropriate at the time, but today you download movies in completely different ways than in the video clips that are found in the Storgata on Jessheim. Therefore, in my view, it is a system from which time has passed. As a control system for video concessions, this means less and less, not least because film and video are being broadcast today in so many channels other than the sale and rental of DVD. The law no longer allows the concession scheme to be used as an active cultural policy instrument. This means that the municipalities have very few opportunities to say no to the establishment of video rental shops. A concession scheme is a very radical form of regulation because it prohibits a certain type of commercial activity, unless the government expressly authorises it. In the media field, particular caution should be exercised with regard to the use of such an instrument, as the media have clear tasks in order to facilitate freedom of expression and to monitor private and public use of power in society. I see this as a first step on the way to a more modern regulation in the field. But I think the representative, Håbrek, is inviting an important debate on how we can change legislation in line with the new era. It's both about ensuring that parents and others have responsibility and develop critical senses, and it's about starting a general revision of the film and videogram law. Media surveillance will continue to ensure that distributors sell films that are in line with the law, but we will nevertheless look at general changes in the film and videogram law. In this work, I will focus on developing a coherent and consistent regulatory framework that can meet the objective of protecting children and young people on all media platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e343	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3820]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e359	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President then takes the view that the rapporteur, Mr Gunn Olsen, does not want to speak. Councillor Audun Lightbakken is not present. If possible, it would have been nice if the government councilman Anniken Huitfeldt could be present in the hall until the state councillor Lightbaken arrives, so that the Storting does not interrupt their negotiations. Then I do not ignore the fact that the Council of State Huitfeldt does not wish to speak in the matter to the Council of State Lysbakken. We are thus in the situation that no one has asked for the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Is that correct? No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3821]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e387	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Nor does the rapporteur of the matter, Mr Simensen, wish to speak here, but the representative, Mr Thommess, does. The representative Thommessen has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e398	I'm not going to use that speaking time, because I'm not going to invite you to any debate or take the time off with a long post. I just want to comment briefly on the changes made to the Discrimination and Availability Act § 2. I just want to stress that the way the Right perceives this change, this is more about cleaning up the basis of the law than about any change in the legal status of the law – as far as these provisions have already been laid down in the Working Environment Act. We therefore see that the changes proposed and to which we subscribe do not extend the basis of the law in relation to the requirements and obligations that employers already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e403	I had some input to the Council of State, but he gets to read the record from today's negotiations later. I am sceptical about intervening in private property rights by requiring suppliers, dealers or importers to dispense with samples of goods free of charge. However, I would like to stress the importance of complying with the laws and regulations in this area. But it may be a better solution – as I see it, and as the Party of Advancement sees it – to oblige suppliers, dealers or importers to dispense with samples of goods free of charge only in cases where fault marking is detected. I would like to stress that we are in order for the laws and regulations to be respected here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e428	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State and the main speakers of the parties within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e439	The proposal by the Progress Party has created a great deal of debate. As rapporteur of the case, it has been very interesting to work on this issue of the free sharing of parental leave, also because it has become a very fresh public debate, in which very many people believe a lot and believe it very strongly. I am very pleased that the Progress Party has promoted this proposal, because after the High Women's Forum in January this year presented its new proposal for the sharing of parental leave, it turns out that there are many who want more freedom of choice, more flexibility and equal rights between mother and father, no more state-level detailed management of people's family lives. There is no doubt to the right that today's fathers have a strong desire to share much time with the child in its first year of life. Dad knows it's good for the child, and Dad knows it's good for himself. It's good for the relationship between father and child, and that's good for the whole family. It is said that fathers who are more at home are better at helping with housework, and they also become better partners. Therefore, women should also have a great deal of self-interest in the father taking out a greater part of the parental leave. Just to repeat it, and make it quite clear also to the representatives in the Chamber here: the right does not want to deprive father of rights, rather on the contrary. Right is for fathers, right is for fathers to be at home, and right is for children to be much with their fathers. For the Right, it's also important that people make choices that are best for themselves and their families, even though as politicians we don't like the choices that people make. Right is for freedom of choice. Because freedom of choice is so important to us as a value in itself, and because it is absolutely central to us that society should set itself in such a way as to safeguard the fundamental freedom of man, we also believe that the time has come to make the parental leave optional. Today's fathers need not be forced home to their newborn children. However, the government parties seem to believe that fathers won't be at home if you don't have a father's quota. This is a distrust of father as a caregiver. In the right we think that many fathers will take out more than the ten weeks that today's legislation gives them occasion. It's very good if many people do it, but it's also quite possible that someone chooses differently. Then they must also be respected for that. The current parental leave scheme is rigid and bureaucratic. Right wants to simplify the scheme and make it more flexible. The current permit scheme is for the ideal family. It does not take into account that every family is unique, with different desires and different needs for how they will live their lives. Families must be given more freedom and arms, not increased control and coercion, as government parties seem to force them. For what about those families where father is a supporter, and where mother is not at work? What about those families where Dad works so that it's not possible to take out the father's quota? Yeah, that's when you punish these families. They are punished by removing the family quota and by excluding the families from the weeks that father does not have the opportunity to take out. Who's losing on this? Is it Dad or is it Mom? No, it is primarily the child who loses valuable time with his parents during his first year of life. To impose conditions on the withdrawal of parental leave is perceived by many families as a punishment. Because if it's impossible for the family to live up to the requirements of the state, and if it's impossible for the parents to take out each of their allowances, as the state imposes, the child and the family lose many, many weeks, and the child has to be sent to kindergarten much earlier. If the parents do not have the option to choose the allowance scheme, where mother may have to be forced into work much earlier because she cannot be at home with the child and does not get the weeks of father transfer, many parents experience it as a punishment. If you do not select what the government expects, you will be fined. What concerns the Right is precisely the signals that come from central politicians here on the Stortinget, that you want a two-thirds of the parental leave, that you want a third. Yes, what happens to the four months that a third is involved, whose father is unable to take them out? What happens then? Is it so that this government should deprive children of four months of age with their families because it is more important to equalise – that mother and father take equal parts of the leave. That is the overall goal, and then you completely ignore the child's needs for care. Each family is special and unique. Each family has different needs and desires. That's why it's impossible for the state to tailor solutions that will satisfy everyone. That's why it's important to find a system that gives families much more flexibility, a much greater degree of freedom of choice, and less government. Today's parents want more armsstrokes and more room to live a good family life. What is of the Right's concern is that the debate on parental leave is now being used to become the number one in the gender equality class. The fact that mother and father take exactly equal parts of the parental leave, overshadows everything. It overshadows the fact that the parental leave is actually a scheme we have to take care of the very least. The right is concerned about one thing related to that matter, and it is precisely that we still have some – then we stress some – employers who do not make it as easy for father to take out his part of the leave. However, it is not certain that the law will change the position of these employers. A change of attitude is equally important. Therefore, we also call on the government to hear what initiatives the government is taking to influence these employers and to make it as natural for father to take parental leave as it is for mother. If the government had stood by its promises from Soria Moria I from five years ago, the government would have introduced autonomously 100 pst. father benefit entitlement — father’s right of withdrawal. These have been talking about the red-greens for five years. The red-greens have said that they're going to be like Mom and Dad as caregivers, but have they done anything about it? No, no, no. There were hundreds of fathers who a few weeks ago got a better chance of that. But it doesn’t keep going around and telling all Norwegian fathers that you’re busy as a caregiver — giving equal rights to father and equal opportunities to father — if you don’t do anything about it. It's getting a little awkward. I see that the red-greens refuse to talk about self-employment, and I understand that. It must be embarrassing not to fulfill these promises for Norwegian fathers. For the right, the parental leave concerns the child’s claim to care by his or her parents in his or her first year of life. Parental leave in our time should be an instrument, not primarily in the gender equality struggle, but a well-being that benefits the families of children. Right wants a society with less state governance and more freedom for the individual. At that time, families themselves must be given the opportunity to provide a good framework for their children and to live a good family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e476	The main measure taken by the government to change attitudes among employers, including the demand of Hofstad Helleland, is, of course, the ratio of fathers. Through its introduction – with which the Right would wait in its time – we have radically changed attitudes in society, both among employers and among men in relation to men as carers, and the fact that more men are now taking responsibility for tasks at home and for their own children. As a father himself and on behalf of fathers, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Right did not get an impact on his view as they argued against the introduction of a father's quota in its time. I think the Right has also admitted that they were wrong in their time, when they now write in the comment on this matter that a father's quota has been very important to change attitudes and to get more men to take responsibility in the family. My question is simple and straightforward, and I hope that Hofstad Helleland will be able to answer briefly and honestly to the people: Will there be more fathers taking out the paper mission, or will there be fewer fathers taking out the paper mission if the Right Policy gets through?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e485	The right does not conceal that for many years we have been voting for the feather quota and for the extension of the feather quota. We think it's been right, because then society wasn't ready for fathers to take out parental leave. But there's been a lot of happening in these years, and today it's almost an expectation that all fathers are taking parental leave. It's almost like you might be a little bit curious about being a father if you don't take parental leave. It says a little bit about how far we've come into society. It says a little about how much has happened, and it says a little about Norwegian fathers who want to be at home, and who believe it is right for themselves, the child and his family that father and children have the opportunity to make strong ties. Therefore, my simple answer is that yes, I think several fathers will gradually take out more parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e490	I don't quite understand how the removal of the feather quota is going to make more fathers take out more leave, all the time you actually have to do it today beyond the feather quota. But my question relates to freedom of choice, and Hofstad Helleland's comments on freedom of choice, because she actually admits to my surprise in the post that the attitudes of employers are very different as to whether there are men who are going to take leave, or whether there are women who do the same. She admits that men meet much higher thresholds among employers and other attitudes towards taking leave. The question is: do they help employers to influence Norwegian men's freedom of choice, or do they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e497	It surprises me that the Christian People's Party does not trust fathers either, so that the Christian People's Party believes that if fathers do not have a quota – if fathers are not traded at home – they will not choose to be at home. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party does not support the declared electoral parties on the Stortinget. I think that's very bad. I am very sorry that the Christian People's Party is not with the Right and fights for the family's freedom and the ability to be with their children, and takes into account that there are different situations in each and every family. So that's how the labour market also changes. We now see in education how many more girls take higher education. Why should it be so much more difficult for an employer to give a female director leave than a male director? It is therefore a matter of having confidence that things are changing, but most of all, you have to do a job with attitude changes in relation to employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e504	The representative was in his post that too many fathers might find it difficult to take out the feather quota. I have to say that it is a bit fascinating that you always experience that there are some fathers who have such difficult jobs, but that we do not feel that there are some mothers who have such difficult jobs that they are not allowed to take leave. A survey from Nav shows that half of the mothers are home in full or in part under father’s leave, and more mothers than fathers take out unpaid leave as well. When we know that, which are the facts, what kind of consequences does the representative think a removal of the feather quota will have? If the representative then has the same answer as the representative of Arild Stokkan-Grande, I wonder if the representative of Hofstad Helleland can explain the logic here. When today's spring quota does not prevent increased withdrawals, can the representative explain the logic that even more fathers will take longer leave when removing the spring quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e511	Yes, logic and logic – here’s probably more about what trust you have in and what you think about Norwegian men and Norwegian fathers today. There has been a very big change in recent years, where you expect fathers to choose to be at home and take responsibility for their child, but also that the fathers themselves want it. Although the father quota disappears, I don't think it's the way Norwegian fathers stop using paper commission. I don't think it's like that when you don't put your fathers home, Norwegian fathers say that now we don't have to be home, and we don't want to be home, and we want to see a dramatic increase in this. I trust Norwegian fathers, and I think we're all going to see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e516	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e520	We are really discussing the world's best parental leave here in the Grand Duchy today. When we then discuss the question of freedom of choice, I think we should look at this scheme a little from the outside. Let's look at it as if we were young children's parents in, for example. Italy and Germany. How do they view the Norwegian system? They envy us. They seem to give parents the basic freedom of choice. Unlike Italian mothers of young children and German mothers of young children, we who are mothers of young children in Norway are not forced to choose between being active or having children. We can get both of them. This is the dream of young children's parents in the rest of Europe. It's our reality. This must be the top of freedom. But this arrangement is not entirely ideal for Dad today. Until 1993, it was almost impossible for a father to be at home and take part in the parental leave. The father's quota gave him the freedom and the opportunity to be at home. And when the father's quota came, over 90 pst responded. by the fathers positively at once and would be at home with their little ones. Before that, it was just 3 pst. who was at home, and as we've been given an extension of the father's quota, there are more and more fathers who are more and more at home with their children. It tells us a unique thing, that father depends on the father's quota to secure valuable time with his children at home, alone, after birth. So now we are at a crossroads, for the right, with the Right, which has now changed vision, at the top, want to remove this arrangement, while the red-green parties – in addition, the Christian People's Party and the Left – want to expand and improve this amazing arrangement that we have. And why does the red-green government want to expand? Well, because we see that this system is still going to be very unevenly distributed. It's being very distorted. Mothers take out six times more time than father, and we know that over half of fathers take out cardboard while Mother's home. We want an even more equal parenting, where both father and mother are star players at home, and not as today, when father is the benchman and in many cases referred to being ballboy for mother. We want it to be equally natural that it is the father who is the home administrator, who has control over childbirth days, who ensures that the park dress is clean and that the cherroxes fit when winter comes. But it requires that father has long leave, that father gets the opportunity to be home alone with the little one and get the knowledge of how it is to manage a home. That is why we want to extend the parental leave further to 14 weeks. Then we actually think that there will be a revolution of the father role -- we've seen it in the last few years after we got the father's quota -- and that there will be an even greater change than we've been looking forward to in terms of father's participation at home. Unfortunately, the right-hand side wants to do the opposite. And it's not like their policies are unruly. It was tested from 1978 to 1993, and the answer was that only 3 pst. out of the fathers took out the feather quota. But in the meantime, we've got our father's quota, and it's probably true, as the representative of Hofstad Helleland says, that some fathers will probably take out more than 3 pst, as it was before, but I doubt very much that we're going to have a situation where dad gets a lot more leave than he has today, if we take away the father's quota. Denmark has removed its father’s quota, and as a result, Dad’s time at home was significantly reduced. It will also be the consequence of the Right and Advance Party policies – fewer fathers than today will take out cardboard, and it will be considerably shorter. The Right Party and the Advance Party talk so nicely about fathers' rights, and we also heard Linda Hofstad Helleland's commitment to fathers, but that's just fine words. For the consequence of their policies, it is quite the opposite, and I just have to conclude that the Right Party and the Advance Party are willing to sacrifice the rights of fathers on their ideological altar.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e536	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, is very concerned about equality and the father's quota, and it was almost touching to hear the representative talk about how important it is to children's growth that father is home in the first place. It is also considered that the proposal of the Progress Party to abolish the spring quota is reprehensible. But if so, for example. comes to a break in life, it is not easy for a father to participate in the growth of children, and at least not in the first few years, because it is the mother who is basically given all the rights to maternity leave after a break in life, rather than father. My question to the representative is whether the Workers' Party will fight as hard so that, in the event of a break in life, father will also be entitled to take leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e545	I think it's touching to listen to the party's commitment to divorced fathers and equal parenthood after divorce. If you're going to have an equal parent after a divorce, you're actually demanding that you have an equal parent while your parents live together. And when you ask questions about the father quota, I think it's very strange, because the Progress Party actually doesn't want a feather quota at all. Why is it that fathers are so concerned about divorce that they have to have a birth quota when they are actually going to remove it? This, I think, is a strange rhetoric and logic on the part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e550	Today's parental leave scheme is probably a fine scheme whose mother and father are publicly employed. If Dad's a carpenter and runs his own company, it's not as simple, and that's also why the numbers are so gloomy. Because of those who do their own business, few take out the parental leave. Does the representative Gjul think it is entirely right that a child born in a family where father is a carpenter and runs his own business and because of the economic situation for the family does not have the opportunity to take parental leave, loses many weeks with his father? It's not just for a carpenter to tell Nav what the order book looks like one year in time – and thus the possibility of taking out parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e557	I believe that both the representative of Hofstad Helleland and many others have misunderstood the parental leave scheme, because it is considerably more flexible than it is often presented as. I'm actually going to give credit to the Bondevik II government, for some of the last thing it did was change the parental leave scheme so that it became much more flexible and much less rigid than it was before. This allows you to take out the father's quota during the first three years of life of the child. You can take it out for an extended holiday. You can take it out one day a week. I think it is a little strange that people who work as self-employed people have such a difficult job that they do not have the opportunity to take out the family quota in three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e562	It is an advantage if the representative Gjul is present and corresponds to the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e565	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e570	I entirely agree with that. The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party agree that it is important to keep the feather quota. Now the government parties and the government have announced that they should go through the parental leave scheme under the heading of equal pay in the context of a call for equal pay. After all, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party agree that we should use a broad range of instruments to achieve equality of pay. It would be that if you just split the parental leave into two and decide that everyone has to do the same, you could say that you strengthen the fight for equal pay. But it will obviously be at the expense of parents' needs, the needs of families and the best of kids. So the question for the Workers' Party is, is the Workers' Party willing to sacrifice the flexibility of families and the children's needs in the fight for equal pay between adults?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e579	I believe that the distinction between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party is very little in the view of parental leave. Like the Christian People's Party, we also want to extend the feather quota to 14 weeks. We don't have a discussion about dividing the parental leave. It has been mentioned by some, but it is neither the Labour Party nor the Government's policy. We want parents to have flexibility in how to take parental leave. Like the Christian People's Party, we think it's incredibly important that we have a father's quota to make sure that dad gets the opportunity to be home with his little one in the first year. Had we not had a father's quota, the consequence would have been that father had had less opportunity to be home with his young children, because there are some traditional obstacles in the way of seeing whether father should be at home. It's actually a reality that many mothers view parental leave as theirs, and you don't want to share so much of the leave period. The consequence of removing the feather quota will be that very many fathers will labor at home with their legitimate share of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e588	Then we are here again – and now the Council of State has also come – to discuss the feather quota. We've discussed it up and down in winter, and I don't think the last word is being said here in the Chamber today. As the previous speaker said, we have a world-class parental leave. It's a lot of people who envy us. I have myself a sister who lived in London, who had four months' parental leave. She was envious of us since she did not live in Norway and had the unique opportunity of such parental leave as we have here. We're the best in the world. There is no one here in this room today who has said anything else, and there are no parties who have said that we should rock at these leave weeks. It's important for families to have this arrangement with the children in the first few years, but that's not what we're going to debate today. What we are going to debate today is how we are going to distribute the weeks. So it's a little fun to read on Twitter today that the Council of State Lighthouse says it's the Right who's proposing to remove the feather quota, but it's now the proposals of the Progress Party that are being discussed today. It is a proposal that the Progress Party has been on its own for many years, but fortunately the Right has seen that it is important that families have the freedom to choose whether it should be six weeks, ten weeks or maybe 14 weeks that should be reserved for father, as the government has warned, or no regulation at all. Today’s policy dividers in Norway are on whether we can be confident that Norwegian families, the individual family, will be able to choose their own arrangements for parental leave. The Advance Party wants a father to be able to choose to take part of the leave, but we want families to be able to decide this for themselves. That's the distribution of these weeks we're going to debate today, not a breakdown of the arrangement, so it can almost be understood by what we read in the newspapers, and what the red-green parties say in relation to criticism of the feather quota. It's not a beard or not a beard for Dad. It's not that equality is put back 50 years. I don't know about any reading in Today's Business yesterday that there are too few boys applying for the psychology study and also for the veterinary study. Maybe we need to be a little bit more concerned about equality. Maybe we have to get more boys and men to apply for such studies. What happens now is that girls take longer education and maybe get better jobs. So in 20 years we'll see that maybe it's mother who's automatically more out there and takes out less leave than it is today. There's no way in what kind of characteristics we've gotten lately to take away the feather ratio. But once again, it's about trust in the family. The board trusts that the distribution can take place around the kitchen table and not here in this room. I trust that in a few months' time, the Council of State Lighthouse will be able to sit and discuss at its kitchen table how he and his roommate or wife can distribute the weeks. It's not me as a politician who's going to go in and decide what to do. The party also has confidence that today’s fathers choose to be more at home with their children because they want to be a large part of their children’s growth. We're talking about the free distribution of parental leave, because we think it's important that the family has an opportunity to distribute parental leave freely. The community isn't ready for that change, there's a lot of people saying. The Progress Party wants a society with less government governance and more freedom for individuals. The family itself must be given the opportunity to provide a good framework for their children. We're not removing Dad's week, but we're giving the family the freedom to decide. And when the representative Gjul talks about 1978 to 1993, I just want to remind you that there's a lot that's happened in the last 30 years: we've got cell phone and color TV, and I don't know what we haven't got. I actually believe that society today is ready for the family itself to decide how to take this out. Dad doesn't have to depend on his father's quota to be with his kids. Father is able to make that decision with Mother around the kitchen table. I do not know if it is their own experience that makes the red-greens distrust the family, that they must regulate it in order for it to work. Society is not ready for change – indeed, society is actually ready for the change that the family itself should be allowed to decide the distribution. So you're talking about self-employment. Also many red-greens know that it's the way to go: Father must have an independent right of use. Yet they are not willing to go in for this. We know that this is very often about economics. And if you give father self-employment, it will automatically lead to dad taking several weeks. What's also happening is that you actually punish the children by saying that Dad and Mom themselves can't be allowed to decide this. Because you can talk about private business, but we know that a lot of the companies here in Norway are sole proprietorships, they're small, private enterprises with just a few employees. It's not just big state enterprises, it's not just big private enterprises, but it's small individual enterprises. And then maybe it's not that easy for Dad to take out ten weeks. The people who punish them know that mother cannot transfer these weeks to herself are the children. Then, as Linda Hofstad Helleland said, one must have the children in the nursery or in the day-mother's home instead of being allowed to be at home with one of his parents. Everyone is talking about the importance of ensuring children's right to be the same with both parents. Then the independent profit is the way to go. Today we can also read in the paper that men fail the Workers' Party. I want to give a tip to the Workers' Party: Maybe they should go on their own. So Gunn Karin Gjul says that the Progress Party is so touchingly concerned with divorced men. But it must be a policy logic. You have to be able to take care of your father's rights when you're in a happy life, but you also have to be able to take care of your father's rights in the event of a breakup. And that's not the logic of today's government policy, because a lot of fathers experience that they're not worth anything, and that they don't get their weeks taken out by a break-in. I have an example: a father had notified his employer that he would take out his father's allowance, his weeks. Fourteen days before he went out on leave, there was a break in society. What happens then? He wants to be part of the child's growth, but what happens then is that all the care goes to mother because mother is breast-feeding. Then it's mom who gets priority with dad. So the equality that this red-green government is talking about is just about happy relationships. That is why the Progress Party has said that we want to automatically share care in the event of a breakup. We want there to be equality for women and men in the event of a breakup. The participation of fathers in the first year of life of children is important too early to establish good contact between father and child, and to provide a good basis for parents to share care responsibilities. It's also important in the event of a breakup. As I have said before, the last words have not been spoken in this matter. We're not going to have a majority today, neither for the family itself to have the freedom to choose how to distribute these weeks or for Dad to have the right to self-sufficiency. But I am pleased with the debate that these proposals have created. I'm glad we've now had a social debate out there, and I choose to believe that in a few years this will be a reality. I have faith in the Norwegian father, the modern father, and in the fact that the family can sit around the kitchen table and choose the distribution of the good weeks, as this arrangement is, from its own point of view, without us having to have political involvement and direction of that distribution. With that, I take up the minority proposals from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e628	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e633	I want to pursue the line change between the representatives Gjul and Horne. The representative Horne re-explains in his post that the Progress Party is very much for equal parenthood after divorce and a break in life, and is concerned about father's rights in this context. That's really a good trait. But is it not important for the Advancement Party that these couples are also equal while they are a family? Is it the case that the Progress Party is in favour of a father's quota only in the event of a breakup? Is that how we see it? And does the representative Horne believe that the proposal now promoted by the Progress Party strengthens Father's role?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e638	Let me make it quite clear that the Progress Party is against the feather quota because we want parents to be able to decide for themselves the distribution of the weeks they are going to have. The party also wants it to be automatically shared care in the event of a breakup. It is the policy of the Progress Party. We believe that it would have been much easier if we had automatically shared care. What's important is that when this government is for a spring quota, then the logic must be that it also works if it becomes a breakup. That's why I'm surprised that the representative here is talking about shared care, that dad is involved, is a good quality, but not even seeing that it's equally important in the event of a breakup. But perhaps the representative now thinks this is such a good idea that she will fight for shared care even in the event of a breakup.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e647	The representative Horne declares that she has great faith in the Norwegian father. I join those who have commented on it before in the debate, that there seems to be a misunderstanding between the commitment of the Progress Party to fathers after the breakup of life and fathers before the breakup of life. But I hope we can agree that a father is a father, and a father is important – both before and after a possible breakup. But my question is about the importance of the birth rate. Since the Progress Party clearly declares that they have a great deal of faith in the Norwegian father, the question is quite simply: the fact that we have now had 20 years with a father's quota, what does the Progress Party believe that we are there today, that fathers take much more responsibility – and want to take much more responsibility both before and after a break in life – today than what was done 20 years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e654	I thank you for the question. The party of progress has the belief in father, we believe in the modern father. I have asked my colleagues, and other fathers out there, whether they themselves want to benefit these weeks, and have been given a clear answer that they want it. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party, which is a family party, doesn't see that the family itself should be allowed to decide these weeks. So Christian People's Party says that father is so important. Yes, Father is important in a good life, and he is also important after a breakup. I can almost ask the representative back why not the Christian People's Party sees that it is important that Dad also participate in the child's growth after a break in life. For the Christian People's Party, is it not for one to have an automatic shared care? But I can assure the representative that the Progress Party believes that in the evolution you've seen in society in the last 20 years, it's not the spring quota itself that has made us a more equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e665	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e668	We are likely to initially agree that fathers should participate actively and independently in child care. If we believe that it is important for fathers to participate actively and independently in child care, experience so far, in Norway and in our neighbouring countries, that there is an almost embarrassing relationship between father's withdrawal and the length of the father's quota. We can like it or not -- even I don't like it -- but that's how we are now, we fathers. We obediently accept a minimum, and appreciate it, I think, but nothing more. There may be several reasons for this. We have probably already discussed this in the debate. The reasons vary and are, of course, individual, but the general picture shows that there is almost some kind of legality: Father accepts the minimum right, but nothing more. That's why it's very important for us red-green now that this dish expands, and I think we're all convinced that Dad will be happy to follow – at least we red-green believe that Dad will be happy to follow. Thus, when I think a little bit more about it, it is probably wrong, what I opened up to say. We probably disagree on how important it is for father, for child, for mother and for society that we are developing a society characterized by a more equal parenthood. It really surprises me that the Right has not come any further into its political project in 2010 – a party that is otherwise concerned about the importance of this with gender issues, and that differences between boys and girls create a lot of problems, among other things. at school. We have an interpellation later today where the Right-Representative Henning Warloe is just addressing that issue and asking the Red-Green Council of State what she intends to do with it. It could be an opportunity, right, that we didn't choose to deal with the problem first at high school or in high school, but that maybe we started out in the very first years of our kids. No, this is the difference between us, good Right Party and Advance Party representatives. I think we should be a little more honest and honest, there's a fair disagreement we're dealing with. We simply disagree on the importance of this spring quota, how important it is to an equal parent. The Right Party and the Advance Party view this as a beautiful opportunity in a modern society, which the family has spoken together over the kitchen table about. I have learned so far in the debate that it is like above the kitchen table this must be decided. Someone will accept this opportunity in a good and beautiful and warm way, and others will not. But we red-green are impatient. We want to be offensive, we want to develop a society that, in every way – not least in the world of work – is served by a more equal parenting society. Then the Right and Advance Party sit and intersect their fingers. Some of the Right Party and Advance Party representatives will hope that Dad will make greater use of this right, others I think are quite happy with the state of things, that it is the mother who is the dominant figure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e684	There is no doubt that, in particular, SV believes the parental leave scheme. is the main tool of this government to achieve equal pay. SV is terribly concerned that this scheme is an opportunity for mom and dad to share just the same, that there should be no difference between how much mom and dad takes out. That is why I want to ask the representative what perspective is most important with this scheme. Is there a care perspective that is most important for SV, or is there the possibility of achieving more equal parenthood, more equal pay and more equality in society that is most important for parental leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e691	Firstly, it was a little surprising to hear that this is SV's only instrument in the equal pay debate. Then the representative has followed with little in the political change of words, among other things. on equal pay pot. We have several arguments that we think this is important: it's important for dad, it's important for the kid, it's important for the mother, and it's important for society that we also get the gender perspective in place, and get it put into practice in this area, as it is in other areas of society. So there's a lot of different reasons why we think this is important. Once again, it's good for Dad that Dad also has such a long opportunity to really take his role and play that role in a good way, not least in terms of how to operate as a father later in life. That's very good for the kid. It's very good for mom that someone gets in place dad in this role. And, as I said, I think society will greatly appreciate that we also get a more equal approach to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e701	SV is very concerned with equal pay policy and part of the equal pay pot, which was also attended by the representative of Hofstad Helleland, and the birth rate is also important for SV. The representative also said in his comments that this is important for father, and that is important for the child. In fact, the progress party can fully agree with the SV representative that it is important for both mother and father to be present in the child’s first awakening, and it is important that the child know his or her father from the beginning, in the first year of life. But my question to the representative from SV concerns the independent right of access for father. Does the representative see that the fact that Dad has a self-employment right is an important part of getting this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e710	I don't fully understand the context of the argument of the Advance Party when a boat fights a heroic fight to get equal pay and at the same time it seems so problematic what is being proposed here from the Red-Green Government. If the Progress Party is genuinely concerned with equality in this area, the Progress Party should be able to easily join in what the Government has proposed here to extend the feather quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e715	The SV called for a third of the parental leave early on, and SV is not entirely opposed to a two-part division either. Soria Moria II says that it is 14 weeks that have to be allocated to father — that is, the birth rate. Is it true that it is perfectly OK for these weeks to be taken from mother – that not only the parents' freedom of choice is now completely taken away from them, but that mother too, who has been through a perhaps tough birth, a tough pregnancy and has challenges after birth, has to go back to work because the government wants to take mother away weeks in order for father to get an increase in father's allowance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e722	We have had an exciting debate in our party about this third, just as we know that you have had it in the Right and in other parties, and there are many numbers and distribution mechanisms that have been swirling in the air. What's our main starting point is that it's important to have a right for mother, it's important to have a right for father, and then one can have a period where one can be more flexible in the distribution between father and mother. But it's very important with Dad's right – and this isn't about taking anything from mom, but about giving dad a right to take out leave to be with his kid in such a good way and over so long that he can just get a good start on playing the father's role further beyond childhood and youth. So it's Dad's right and whether Dad's going to have that right and the size of it that we're discussing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e729	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e732	The center party is busy with the family, and we are concerned that we should have an equal parenting where both mother and father assume the responsibility of having children. In order for the child to have good contact with both mother and father, it is important that the possibility of bonding in the first year is present. It is important that we facilitate strong families and that we have a family policy that highlights the importance of the family. But we cannot see family policy in isolation either. It will also have an effect in other areas. When Father takes more responsibility for the children, we avoid the biased division of responsibilities that we see today, where mother takes on the primary responsibility for this, which in turn affects wages, will affect the working situation and rights later in life. The Advance Party and the Right talk a lot about freedom of choice for families – and freedom of choice is important. I would say that the families have a lot of freedom of choice today. Most of the leave you can actually sit around the kitchen table and discuss how to share. You have e.g. flexible arrangements with a time account. Parental leave can be taken until the child is three years old and the parental allowance can be taken out continuously, or a more flexible withdrawal can be chosen, for example. one day a week or split it up into several periods. It's not like Father has to take out his part of the leave during a short period of time. So the family has a great opportunity to discuss how you want to spend your life with your family. The problem is that too many families don't sit down and discuss a solution. Studies from, inter alia: Nav shows that there is just a lack of discussion about the distribution that seems to prevent fathers from taking leave beyond the spring quota, because fathers take it for granted that it should be like this for as long as mother does not address this question. This also gives us a signal that we are far from in this field – that Dad feels that he has as much responsibility as Mother. That's why it's important that we give a signal that parental leave is not only reserved for mother, but that we have a part reserved for mother, a part reserved for father, and a larger part that families can actually choose to share as they please. Today's proposal, which can be called a kind of removal of both the mother's quota and the father's quota, is not a proposal that relates to the realities of society we see today. Proposals highlight the importance of flexibility. Yes, flexibility is important. Today we have. That the scheme has a expectation that both parents will give priority to approx. ten weeks of his life being at home with the child for the first part of his or her life, is not a sign of little flexibility. Despite the fact that the Norwegian model of parental leave is one of the best in the world, we must not forget those who are outside, those who are not entitled to these ten weeks of parental leave, who have not earned rights, who cannot take out any of the parental leave, or those who have only one-off benefits. For them, the debate we have today is not very relevant. That is why the government has announced a review of today's system to get a more equal and simpler system. That work will have a great impact on families and especially on those who know, in this debate, that they are outside the system we have today. For the Central Party, it will be important to put in place a system that will take care of all the families, including those who do not fit into the system we have today, but also to ensure freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e754	Ivarta all families, says the representative of the Center Party. I'd like to take a look at that. The propulsion party wants to have a system in which the family itself should be able to distribute these weeks. Then we had taken care of all the families. There is evidence of little belief on the part of the Center Party when they say that there is a lack of discussion around the kitchen tables in the individual families. The Progress Party believes that this is completely wrong. We think it's a good discussion in all families when it comes to such an important topic. I'm also surprised at the Center Party here, because they have quite a number of farmers around in their stock that may have problems getting this quota out of which the representative is so busy, also linked to self-sufficiency rights for those who are involved in agriculture today. So my question to the representative is: does the Central Party see that it is important to have an independent right of use for fathers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e763	When the government is going to have an overall review of the parental pension scheme, it is very important to look at several things. One thing is self-sufficiency, another is the ability to take out these weeks. That means we have to look at several things, such as: the activity requirement. So many things will go into this evaluation. To the question of whether there's discussion in the families, what I'm referring to is, a survey from Nav. It shows that when the parents have been asked if they have had a discussion about the distribution of the scheme, they have replied no, we have not had any discussion about this. Yeah, there may be a lot of farmers voting at the Center Party. I assume that when you have a child, you have the opportunity to prioritize 10 weeks with your child during the first three years of life of your child. It's important for the child, and it's important for the family. I think the system we have today is flexible in many ways. But we want to look at the system now and see if there are things we can do even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e774	I'm excited about how the red-greens are going to regulate the quota between my husband and me on this issue, but they're probably coming back with new proposals, I think. The centre party has been with – I was about to say the other bourgeois parties, but it would be wrong – the bourgeois parties now today to give increased freedom of choice to their parents through the cash support. In that question, the Center Party, together with the bourgeois parties, stressed that it was incredibly important for families to make independent choices based on good discussions in the home, and that they had confidence in the families. Today, the Central Party is talking about the family that red-green politicians are adopting the framework for, and you cannot adopt your own framework. What is the reason why the Center Party believes that the family is able to discuss the cash support itself, but not discuss the father quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e783	The centre party believes that the families are able to discuss both cash support and parental leave, and we hope that more families will do so today. When we want to go through this parental leave scheme, it's just to get a simplified and equal treatment system that makes it easier for families to discuss. I hope that the families, when they sit and discuss today, are able to get a good distribution of this. Although we say that ten weeks should be reserved for father, there are 36 weeks left for families to sit and discuss and distribute, so there is a great opportunity to distribute weeks within the system we have today. So the centre party is well satisfied with the parental leave scheme we have today, but we see that it has weaknesses. That's exactly why we're also looking forward to this review in order to get a simplified, equalized system that can make even more families fall under this system, for too many of these outside today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e793	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e796	The current proposal for a representative deals with two questions: whether a part of the parental leave should continue to be earmarked for mother and father, and what activity requirements, if any, should be imposed on each parent during the other’s withdrawal from parental leave. Let me first make it clear that the Christian People's Party wants to make the world's best parental leave scheme even better. We believe that the scheme should be extended to 68 weeks, i.e. about 16 months, which can be used within the child's age of 10. The permit shall be shared freely, with the exception of 10 weeks reserved for mother and 10 weeks reserved for father. It will provide greater opportunities, greater flexibility to spend time with children through growth, and it will also be a good tool to facilitate parental time with children both before and after a possible breakup. The Christian People's Party is not in doubt that it is still a good tool to give danger the opportunity to take out parts of the parental leave through a separate quota. For the Christian People's Party, freedom, flexibility and freedom of choice for families are important. Each family has different needs and conditions that must be taken into account and accommodated. The family quota does not reduce freedom of choice. The family quota is on the contrary an important right to father, which gives increased freedom of choice to fathers, in the society that is today's reality. A simple example illustrates this. Every day, even today, the following happens in Norwegian jobs: a female worker gets away to her boss and tells her that she has become pregnant. The manager nodded, congratulated, said so nicely and began to plan immediately how he would fill that place with an approximate year of vicariate. Then the same thing happens to a male employee. – Congratulations, so nice, says the manager, and thinks that he will probably be a few weeks away in the next year once, hopefully in connection with the summer holiday or when you have a quiet period in the company. There is no doubt that the attitudes we still have in society today, with which employers meet employees, restrict the freedom of choice of fathers and the ability of fathers to fulfil their own wishes. So the birth rate is an important card to have in mind to realize the possibilities you want to choose and to strengthen freedom of choice. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is naive to believe that traditions and attitudes do not lay the foundations. It is premise that really restricts the freedom of choice of families and fathers. It is necessary that part of the parental leave be earmarked for the mother and that part be earmarked for the father. There is good evidence that the father ratio has good effect and gives more time to father. We have to deal with that. That is why we still see it as a necessary instrument. In this debate, we see that the right side, the Right and the Advance Party, have gone wild in a naive and remote attempt at principle thinking, which in practice reduces the freedom of choice for Norwegian men. The left side has seen the importance of still ancestral quotas, and we are in the position with them to say that increased contact between father and child is important. At the same time, when discussing a parental leave to be organised only after the fight for money and the career of adults, you continue to want to go on the left side, and you forget the family's own freedom. We also regularly see that when other questions about adult demands come on the agenda, the red-green people are willing to adopt – as has been done in the context of § 4 of the Children's Act – that kids do not need a father at all – that all kids must have a mother, but they do not need a father. It's going to be inconsistent in some ways and it's not hanging on to it. It tells me that the good solutions in family policy, the good solutions to freedom of choice and to get mothers and fathers together on the track, so that the young will grow up better, are at the centre of Norwegian policy. Then it's important to continue to work to achieve the performance of fathers and to continue working with solutions to the obligation of activity, which means that we get a more gender-neutral and fair parental parental leave scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e811	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e814	First of all, I can assure the representative of the Christian People's Party that I have not gone my way. I have mirrored the compass into today's modern family. I actually thought that also the Christian People's Party had done. If I am not completely wrong, one of the messages of the Christian People's Party – at least in the context of elections – is freedom for the family, that the family is in the main seat. The freedom of choice for the family has been very important for the Christian People's Party, even in the case of cash support – that families themselves can decide whether they want kindergarten for their children, whether they want a day's mother, or whether they want cash support. It's freedom of choice, what each family itself will be allowed to decide. It's at least what I've believed the Christian People's Party has stood for all along. Therefore, my question to the representative now concerns what the difference is in this freedom of choice and the fact that parents themselves can choose with regard to the parental quota and parental leave. My question to the Christian People's Party is: Does not the Christian People's Party see the equal importance of freedom of choice for families here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e819	As I said in my post, freedom of choice is fundamental to the family policy of the Christian People's Party. But no people have ever made a choice in a vacuum. You do it in the community you live in. This means, for example: that in the case of kindergartens and cash support, there is a freedom of choice for families, which we together have stood for, and which is the result of an offensive policy. This is the sum of the 20–40 year extension of kindergartens, which has made it possible to choose a kindergarten and to build up the cash support – that is, the sum of active policies – that has given that freedom of choice. Similarly, parental leave schemes apply. Because, as I said in my post, there is a difference in the reactions of an employer as to whether a male or female employee is asking for parental leave. That's why we need the father's allowance as a card in the sleeve in order for male workers to realize what most people want, to spend time with the kids in the first year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e824	So now, in Norwegian universities and universities, there is a female majority in almost all studies, at least a lot of studies – at the School of Business and Economics, there are girls everywhere. How can the representative, Håbreek, be so sure that the employer has a less wide smile when a key person who is a woman says she wants to take out a long leave than when a man does the same thing? Does not the representative, Håbreek, believe that it is a fact that Norwegian jobs actually change structure also in relation to gender distribution, who has what jobs? Does he not think that at least there is something to be said about the problem he has raised – that there is such a difference in the employer's perception? Does not the world go forward in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e829	Yes, the world is moving forward, and there are many reasons why the world is moving forward. The birth rate is one of them. That the attitudes now change is certain. Increasing gender distribution between different studies and occupations, both in management positions and in other key positions in business and working life, is of great importance, and there is no doubt about it. But I am convinced – and we hear a lot of stories about it – that it is still such that employers are totally different about whether it is female workers or male workers who are asking for parental leave. I actually think it's about both male and female leaders. I'm sure we still have a long way to go there. If we remove the parental quota, fewer fathers will take out leave, you'll take out shorter leave, and that's not in line with what fathers really want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e834	For the Right, freedom of choice is an important value, and it is a value in itself that people and families are allowed to decide how to organize their lives. I also see the Christian People's Party as being concerned with the value of having a principle approach to this. I am therefore very, very disappointed and very surprised that the Christian People's Party does not have a principle approach to this. They define themselves in the center, agree a little with the right side and a little with the left side – affect both sides and seem a little uncertain about where you stand. Is it true that the Christian People's Party now has a more pragmatic relationship with freedom of choice, that now that full child care has been achieved, cash support is not so important either? Is it so that the families out there can no longer have the confidence that the Christian People's Party is fighting for family freedom and the ability to live good family lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e843	Cash support is still important for the Christian People's Party because it is part of the total, total package that ensures freedom of choice, along with full child care coverage. It is true that I have very clearly defined the Christian People's Party in the centre, including in family policy. This does not mean, however, that this is what the representative said, but it means that the left-hand side agrees with us a little, and the right-hand side agrees with us a little. Freedom of choice is, as I said, fundamental to our policy, but it requires an active policy. It is precisely an active policy of kindergarten development that has helped give us the freedom of choice we have, along with the cash support. Similarly, for the parental leave scheme, as long as there is a much higher threshold for fathers to ask for their share of parental leave, an active policy of parental leave is required for many years to ensure that fathers have freedom of choice before we get there that we can abolish it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e850	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e853	I must first apologize for my little delay instead. It was due to a misunderstanding, but of course it should not happen. This matter has been debated before, and we are going to debate it again. I noticed in a little talk from the representative of Hofstad Helleland, in the change of lines with the representative of Aksel Hagen instead, which I think is quite revealing in terms of what this is all about. Then the representative accused SV of wanting to increase the feather quota by taking time from mother. No one has proposed to increase the parental quota by taking time from mother, but there are some proposals to take some of the time that is currently in common between parents to increase the parental quota. Also in this hall it creeps into our heads – because I'm absolutely sure it was a delay – that the time that is in common is actually Mother's leave. It shows very well why this society is not there that we can abolish the feather quota, because both in this room and outside it is such that when the permit is to be distributed, one assumes that the time that is available for free distribution is mother's time and not father's. What is happening today, which is the most interesting thing about today's debate, is not that the Progress Party is once again presenting a proposal they have made many times, but that the Right is involved in making proposals. It implies a break with a broad consensus on one of the pillars of Norwegian equality policy, and it means that the Right allows ideology to go ahead of both realism and knowledge of how fathers and parental leave have turned out and out in Norwegian families, and across a very clear advice from an overall working life – not only from the workers’ organisations, which are hot defenders of the father's quota, but also the NHO, which was out there with what could be called a rather harsh condemnation of the recent Supreme Council decision. I have never in my life agreed with the NHO as in what was said then. Removal of the parental quota will not give families the real opportunity to share the parental leave between their mother and father as they wish. Removal of the parental quota will mean less freedom, and it will mean that several fathers do not have rights they can claim themselves, but will depend on both getting goodwill from their employer and despite the notion that both women, men and the environments around them have that the common time of leave is mother's leave. We can ban direct discrimination in this society, but we cannot control ourselves away from the pressure of expectations – the attitudes of employers, colleagues, family and friends, starting points, traditions and expectations. On the other hand, we can gradually change the way society views fathers as caregivers through good measures, such as the birth rate. I do not believe that quotaing is an end in itself. If we get there that we can safely cancel the spring quota because we see that fathers' withdrawals no longer follow the limits set by the quotas, then I am happy to promote the proposal to abolish the quota. But there we are not, because there is a close link between fathers' outlets and what they actually take out in practice. It is important to look at the experiences of our neighbouring countries. Denmark removed its quota in 2001. If it had been that the right side is right when they say that removing the father quota would not have anything to say for fathers’ withdrawals in practice in Norway, one would think that one could see in Denmark today that there were as good numbers for fathers’ withdrawals as what we have in Norway. It's the opposite. In Denmark, three-quarters of all fathers do not take leave at all. It is possible that the right side believes that Norwegian fathers have something of their own that Danish fathers do not have. I don't think so. I think it's quite simply about how we've organized our leave arrangement, and what kind of rights fathers get. What the right-hand side is proposing today is taking away from federal rights, freedom and opportunities. It will affect both fathers' rights and children's right to be with their parents, and it will affect women's rights in working life and equal pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e869	The Council of State started by apologizing for his late arrival at the matter that was to be dealt with, and we registered the apology. He also said that it should not happen again, and it certainly should not. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e874	The Council of State and the Government boast that through the spring quota, all fathers are guaranteed a leave, and they must take care of all. But some special rules seem different for some families, and then I think about where mom's unhappy. What will the Council of State do when he sees these specialities striking out so unfair and hair - moving? It cannot be the intention of the government to make it look like that for this group of fathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e884	The government does not boast that all fathers in Norway are entitled to a father's allowance, because we are very aware that there are quite a number of people who do not have it. 6 500 fathers is the approximate number we can operate on this year. There are different reasons why they don't have rights. Let me make it clear – as has been said several times in this debate – that Norwegian men do not have the right to self-employment. Norwegian fathers have had their own right to income outside the spring quota for ten years, within the spring quota for five years, but many still lack access rights. The group where mother is dissatisfied is one of them that I agree with that is clearly good arguments for should be in the arrangement. As of 1 July this year, 1,500 new fathers will be given the right to take out, and my goal is for more people to have it in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e889	I want to begin by commending the Council of State Lights because he gave an answer when he was asked how his household would distribute the parental leave – just that it was a private matter. Even though you're a public person, I have the sense of setting such limits. And that was just an obligation to make a statement. So it might be that some of us think it's an even greater intervention if politicians decide how to distribute this parental leave. My question is: does not the Council of State also see that all the good arguments for having a distribution where father takes his part and so it is a discussion that can well take place in individual homes – much better than, for example, in the national parliament of the country or in the national meeting of the SV or in the national meetings of other parties – and that this is essentially something belonging to the private sphere?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e896	I have actually been relatively open to how much leave I intend to take myself, but I thought it was reasonable to discuss it with my partner before I discussed it with the press. So in my family, as in all other families, we have a discussion about the distribution of leave. And then it's because you have an allowance that you have the right to as a man, and in addition, you have the opportunity to take out a larger part of the time that's available for free distribution. The challenge today is that it is very often perceived as if the time of free distribution is Mother's time. It shows the importance of the parental quota, because it allows men to have a greater opportunity — both in the internal family discussion and in the discussion with the employer — to have a time set aside for themselves. It's just to compare — again — Norway and Denmark, you see the clear difference that's in men's rights, with the father's quota and without it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e903	State councils shall be allowed to discuss their distribution of parental leave in peace. However, I assume that he, regardless of the solution, meets with a response from his boss who is different from the certificate I may have been injured to give Norwegian employers earlier in the debate. The Council of State and the Christian People's Party are very much in agreement on the need to defend the federal quota. We also agree a lot on the fight for equal pay. Now, of course, the government is going through the parental leave scheme, where equal pay is in a way a change. We still see posts and chronicles and other things from red-green politicians who make this primarily a question of equal pay. So the question then becomes to the Council of State: Who is the birth rate and parental leave scheme for? And does he agree that it is possible to go so far as to regulate the inner life of families that it actually affects the welfare of families and the welfare of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e912	The leave scheme is primarily for children. So it's also that the leave system is good for society, because it allows more people to have both children and jobs. The leave system is good for men, because it allows fathers to be more with their children. It is good for women, because it strengthens women's rights in working life. In addition, I certainly believe that it is very important for children to have contact with fathers, and that means that the gender equality element in the scheme does not conflict with the care element, but they are linked. I think I and the replicator agree on this. And then the challenge is to be able to build the world's most flexible system in a way that makes it both simpler and more equal. I think that's possible. After all, the debate on the feather quota is about a time we have put at the top of a system that is already the most harsh and flexible in the world. The family quota does not contribute to making this a little flexible scheme, it is a very flexible scheme, and it will also be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e922	I have followed the debate and seen the proposal, of course. I see that the proposers believe that this could best be resolved within what can be called the private sphere. What's to say if even if it sounds like a relative, is that there's still a very obvious and clear difference in how women and men live their lives, especially when they have children. We know that. Women work more part-time, they earn less, they take more care of the children. Correspondingly, men work more, and only take 20 pst. of the total parental leave. That's why I want to say that either this is an expression of some kind of naivety -- I don't really think so -- or, and I think more, it's an expression of an ideology. And I would say – with an address not to the Right, but to the Progress Party – that it is enough to say that the Progress Party does not believe that gender equality is so important, as their political practices have been over the last 10–15 years. That's said by others, but I also want to say that I think it's a little regrettable and a little bit eye-catching that the Right now goes on the same track, and will remove the feather quota. Now it's true that the right has very rarely been in the front when it comes to these questions, but in most cases it's come after, slowly, but surely. So also on this question. We can remind each other that in 1993, the right-wing vote against the introduction of the quota has changed in time. What's the explanation for that? As late as January this year, the President of the Right and the parliamentary leader, Erna Solberg, said that Right ‘have admitted that sometimes society needs such regulations to reverse attitudes such as that men are perceived as less ambitious in the job if they take parental leave and that women are expected to withdraw leave’. So now this line is left by the Right, and the Right agrees with the Progress Party that the feather quota should be abolished because the attitudes of men have changed, and all men will now choose to be at home, without the state deciding how to organize their private lives for each family. It sounds, as I've already said, maybe a little dependable. But if that principle were to be transferred in other areas, we would see that this reasoning simply does not work; if, for example, the Stortinget. should think in the labour market that now employment has evolved so far and employers have developed such a positive attitude to the employment environment law that we could weaken it in many areas, because it is not needed. It's not to draw the reasoning too far, because it's the balance between the private sphere and its own rights and the state's need to regulate society in a sensible way so that we can achieve a positive development, which this case in many ways is really about. I would like to end by saying that when the Workers' Party has worked so intensively with these questions, both in terms of gender equality and parental leave, now for many years, there is a mix of two things. This is an expression that we believe is what creates individual freedom, but it is also an expression of a pragmatism, which I do not understand that the right parties in this assembly are not in it. What's this about? Well, that this has given an incredible economic success to society, because without women in work – based on these schemes and more – we would not have had a basis for the economic growth we have had. Return on capital had been significantly lower in recent years. That the right parties don't see it as an important element in how society is organized, I just don't understand. Therefore, the continuation of this arrangement is also of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e936	Gisle André The Brother from Flateby does not get the paper commission to be with his son, Mikkel André. The reason is that the wife is unhappy. The wife says, "My husband and my son have to suffer because I was hit 20 years ago and ended up in a state of disability." This experience the small family as very, very unfair. I'm having trouble understanding the logic. That he should not be entitled to be at home with his child, I do not understand. I would like to point out that they have not chosen themselves to end up in this situation, it is highly involuntary. This is a ride. Anyway, it's important, both for father and son, that they can get together. Here we're not talking about shared solutions – no, they can't be together at all. It's quite hairy that dad shouldn't get a paper commission because the wife's undressed. Government and Council of State make a lot of sense that we have a fair and proper way of distributing the permit scheme. But it seems so much wrong for someone. To be honest, I don't think the government and the Council of State can be aware of how different special rules are for different families – cases where mother is illiterate and for this reason has been unable to process the right to parental leave on the basis of government criteria. If you had been aware of this, you would of course have done something about it. Because his mother has not worked up this right, his father is therefore discriminated against because his wife is illegitimate. The government correctly removes the requirement that mother must have been in at least 50 pst. position during the vesting period, but it has no effect in order to avoid discrimination against families in which mother is without husband. Discrimination against parents involves refusing to give children the full attention of their father for a period of time and punishing a family for circumstances that have led to disability. This can't possibly be the intention of the law. I see, and more people should have seen, that it's a value in themselves to make sure that both mother and father get their share of the time with the child. During the line change, the council said that he would do something about this, this was an important point. I think everyone in this room is aware of that when you're aware of it. But why do the government parties vote against the proposal to do something about it and change the legislation in this particular situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e950	Today, representatives from all the political parties have been proud of Norwegian men because Norwegian men are good at being home with their own children. But this is not a result of chance, this is the result of a desired policy. It is a little special when, in particular, the representatives of the Right are trying to reduce this to a matter of trust and freedom of choice alone. It's especially because it's a freedom of choice that the right side has never been willing to fight for, they haven't been a driver for us to get such a good birth permit scheme as what we actually have. However, reducing men’s efforts at home to a question of trust is naive in relation to the way in which working life works. Through the work of the Labour and Social Committee, we quickly come into contact with women who experience discrimination in employment, who experience that because they choose to use a lot of maternity leave, one is overlooked in exciting tasks, but also that one does not get the same equal pay and get the same career opportunities as others. On the other hand, we come into contact with men who do not always experience being treated as women as good caregivers in society. Society must have an equal view of men and women as good carers. We see what a dramatic outcome it gets today, where we don't have the even distribution of the maternity leave that we should have the ambition to have. This means that men are discriminated against in relation to their children in the event of a breakup. Therefore, the issue of a more even distribution of maternity leave is an issue that is important for both mother, father and child. Because we know that if we manage to get a more even distribution of maternity leave, it does something to our own attitudes. I also believe that the new generation of men who are ready to become fathers have expectations other than the generations before them. It also means taking more responsibility at home. If we are able to equalise work both in the home and in the outdoors, we actually build stronger families as well. Because we also know something about it: there are fewer divorces in relation to where you feel that you share both joys and burdens equally. I have previously been in a debate with the representative of Hofstad Helleland. Now I have not been told that she has used the same strong terms in this room today, but I must say that I react when using terms such as that the Workers' Party will force Norwegian fathers home, they will be transferred home. I think it's a very strange way to describe the world's best birth permit scheme. The privilege of actually getting paid to be at home and have quality time with their own kids is not to be forced home. When the government and the Council of State are going to look at the scheme, they should not save on the confectionery. That is at least our advice in the fraction of the Labour and Social Committee. Because we see how big dimensions it has, not only in relation to equality at home, but also in the workplace. We also need to look at that in the question of integration, where we know that there are many families living in old locked-up sex roles. How can we make sure that the maternity leave scheme also changes the life and freedom of choice of these families? When there is a question of trust, I would say that there is just trust in Norwegian men, Norwegian fathers, which means that we need this system with a federal quota. We need an even more even distribution of maternity leave, not just for women's career opportunities, not just for men's opportunities to participate in their own family life, but primarily for the sake of the children, who deserve equal contact with both mother and father.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e967	A year ago, we discussed the great news of men, roles and equality here in Stortinget – a historical report, the first in its battle with the theme of men and equality. The message said we had come a long way in the gender equality work here in the country, but also said that we have more to do. In that message, parental leave and parental quota were an important theme, both because it is an important equality policy tool, and not least because we are concerned that fathers are just as important and good caregivers for their children as their mothers are. We were relatively in agreement on this one year ago. The party of progress was against it as it is now, but the rest, with the bourgeois parties – including the Right – thought the father quota was a necessary and good tool in family policy. One year has passed, and now, together with the Progress Party, the Right will cancel the whole thing. 20 years ago, there were only every 233 children who experienced that father took leave in connection with birth. Today, most fathers take such leave. We're on the right track, but there's still a lot to do. We're not equal enough, and children still have too little time with father for the first lifetime. Fathers take e.g. only out about 10 pst. of the total number of parental days per year. If the proposal from the Right and the Progress Party that we are discussing here today had been passed, we would have taken long steps 20 years back in time. And of course, the kids could hope to be one of the 233 where father took leave. There is no wish situation for children or for fathers, there is only a wish situation for the Right and the Advance Party. The right and the right will take away from the fathers the right they have today to ten weeks of parental leave. When Jens Stoltenberg led the Mannsrolle selection 20 years ago, it was decided that there was a need for an own quota for men. He was seen three weeks. He's got work. Now we've expanded him. Ten weeks are ear-marked fathers, and we have notified that the paper issue should be expanded further, to 14 weeks. We've done it because we know that earmarking needs to change gender-traditional choices, and because it's good for the kids that we have fathers who set up. Why is earmarking correct? Yes, because it requires fathers. Fathers shall and will set up for their children if they are given the opportunity to do so. The second is that the employers who think fathers first of all have to be able to get back to work, and as they think it is the world's most natural thing to fathers work overtime, while mothers reduce working hours. And the last thing: it forces in many contexts mothers to let go a little bit, let dad take responsibility, let go of fathers. Therefore, there is more to change gender-based choices, including in other areas, in addition to childcare. When Stortinget dealt with the message a year ago, there was a broad majority that didn't just support that we have a federal quota. No, with the head right, the bourgeois parties said that they also ‘support the continued extension of the feather quota’. It's on page 25 in the settings. The criticism was not that it was a spring quota, the criticism was not that the spring quota was extended. No, the criticism from the Right at the time was that the whole extension of the feather quota should come by increasing the total length of the permit. When we increase the spring ratio from six to ten weeks, everything would go through a longer leave. So there's a total revolution in right-wing policy in a year. Last year, the spring quota was correct and the extension was necessary. Now there is a spring quota error, and the system has to be abolished. Freedom is the foundation. The scope of the Progress Party is probably the most important. It is the freedom that 20 years ago secured one of 233 children contact with their father through the parental leave scheme, and prevented the 232 others. That freedom is what the Right is occupied by. Today, fathers take out 10 pst. of the total number of parental leave days, while mothers withdraw 90 pst. – that is what we are going to change, in the name of freedom. Right is satisfied and obviously it's more than enough – it's time to reverse. I think we're smart enough to be busy with the 232 other kids, and we should still make sure that fathers can take out more than 10 pst. of the total number of parental leave days. Then the spring quota is necessary. It's modern, and it's forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e995	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e998	There are so many good, young parents. Young families with children have a very demanding everyday life. There are so many pieces to put in place to get work and leisure and a good family life to work. They are constantly being challenged and influenced by the society around them. Not least that is true of the children. It is such that no one grows up just within the house's four walls. They're actually growing up in society. Therefore they need very good ballast from both father and mother. It is very important that we show confidence in young families of children. It's so good to see that more fathers take out more of their leave. There can be no doubt that the spring quota has been an important instrument for positive development. Of course, it is very good for the children to have good contact with their father. It is equally obvious that it is good for father to have good contact with the children. Of course, it also gives Mother a much better opportunity to have a more equal life in the family. It gives the whole family a better starting point for the future, no matter what happens in the family, even in the case of divorce and breakup. It's impossible to imagine more like-minded families by removing the birth rate. Several have used Denmark as an example in welfare issues in this debate. So it's a fact that only 25 pst. Danish fathers take out leave after Denmark has abolished the feather quota in 2001. I have to say that it is very nice to hear the father of four, the representative of the Christian People's Party, rose the father's quota and say how important it is as a fair arrangement for father. It's quite interesting that there are two generations of people who are discussing the ratio of fathers. My opinion is that the removal of the parental quota is an under-estimation and discrimination against father as well as a caregiver as mother. My experience is at least that of course father is as good, but in my generation it has been a lot about letting him go. I think it is quite old-fashioned, simply when the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that families should be freely distributed within the family. Yes, the question is, Will there be more freedom? At least there won't be any more equality, and it doesn't strengthen the relationship between father and child. Then I am pleased that the government has announced a review of the simplification of parental leave. I think we're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1017	It's true that the Council of State started its article, that this has been discussed a lot and will be discussed a lot in the future. We look forward to the announced review of the parental leave scheme. When I still take the floor, it is to comment on Right self-criticism and Right self-opposition. But first of all, I react when Linda C. Hofstad Helleland uses words like ‘compulsory jerseys’, that we want to force father home, and that our policy represents a ‘ministilitis to father’. I wonder what kind of reality that representative describes when we know that most people experience this as a good and flexible scheme, and that you don't want a weakening, for example. the removal of the spring quota. We have seen that almost 10,000 have joined the Facebook group ‘Ligg away from our cardboard!’. There we see that many fathers are concerned that their ability to take out paper issue is weakened if the Right's proposal is now passed. The rhetoric from the Right is very similar to the current arguments from the right when the federal quota was introduced in 1993. It was claimed that this is too much interference in the private lives of the families, and no one is going to take advantage of the father's quota. The right-hand side was wrong. We take it as a matter of course today, as Hofstad Helleland also said in reply to my reply that fathers should be at home. But it wasn't a matter of course just 17 years ago. Many have changed since then. Who knows where we would be today if the right-hand side policy had been in force. The right then also slaughteres its own policy from the 1990s in its observations on this matter, because they write that ‘the parent quota has been necessary for significant numbers of fathers to take out parental leave and to contribute to increased equality; [[...]] A clearer admission of your own faults should be sought for a long time. Then the Right itself will answer for how they can make themselves think that more fathers will be home longer by removing the feather quota when no country, where there is no feather quota, has higher withdrawals of fetal leave than Norway. Many fathers say they have problems extracting cardboard if the father ratio disappears, as the results from Denmark clearly show, and almost none – only 17 pst. – Norwegian fathers take out more than today’s father’s quota. I have trouble understanding the contradiction in the point of view of the right-hand side forefects, that this has worked very well, let's remove it! Or is it maybe the actual end of the right side is that they know that fewer fathers are going to be home by removing the feather quota, they just don't care? It would be an honest admission.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1037	Granting fathers a self-sufficiency right and at the same time abolishing the birth rate as a scheme will undoubtedly give better rights to fathers as well. In addition, it will contribute to less detailed management of family life, giving more satisfaction to both children and adults. Every family is different and has different needs for day and week puzzles. Therefore, the Right believes that every family must have its own right to sea to choose how to organize their everyday life and their family life. I note that the opponents of the Right's proposal to remove the feather quota argue that they do not trust Norwegian fathers and Norwegian employers to take responsibility. The right is of a completely different opinion. We believe there has been a formidable change of attitude both in business and in families with children in recent years. A study in VG could indicate that 51.4 pst. of over 1000 asked that parents should be allowed to decide on the distribution of leave. Nearly 63 pst. by the right-wing voters, supported the proposal. The study showed that the right not only is in line with its own voters, the proposal was also supported by 36,5 pst. by the voters of the Workers' Party. A clear majority of them said that this is the way to distribute the parental term. It is therefore very worrying when Stoltenberg ruled out that he was upset about the proposal, and pointed out that the arguments of the Right Women are the same as we heard in the early 1990s, and further claimed that the members of the Right Women's Forum are old-fashioned. We have heard that in the Chamber today. This shows that the country has a prime minister who is not in keeping with the people, a prime minister who shows distrust of today’s and future young fathers and business leaders. I'm proud to be a woman in the Right. At the Court’s national meeting, both young and well-adult men raided the pulpit and fought for freedom of choice in relation to parental leave. The most funny thing about it was that it was the young – the future generation of fathers who were most eager. It speaks well for the future and for the families of young children of the future. My soul is married to a business manager, who has many happy young men at work — most with young children. Why are they so happy? Why does the enterprise have a stable workforce and very low sick leave? Well, precisely because the care for the family gets high, and because he as the general manager knows that when the family is well, his employees also have it well. It also serves the company. A free distribution of parental leave is not about removing father’s weeks from parental leave. It's about flexibility, about freeing parents to decide from what's best for the child and the family, not what's best for governance politicians and bureaucrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1054	The right in this debate has been accused of being old-fashioned. I must say that when I hear the red-green parties and the way the Council of State argues, the way to convey its message, it is thoroughly stuck in decades of history and an incredibly traditional approach to how things should be governed. Maybe not so surprising, it's about steering from top to bottom. It is assumed that Norwegian men are a bunch of slippers who do not themselves have the ability to make a settlement, or even the ability to fight for equality and freedom for families to really choose. It's a pretty powerful signal to give. I believe that the signals contained in the political debate are underestimated. The left-hand side is, no, you guys, you can't tell your employers that you're actually going to have a few weeks or months of fetal leave. And the representative Gjul describes Norwegian young girls as – yes, as I remember Mrs Von in Knoll and Tott from childhood – someone who struggles to keep for themselves the entire privilege of parental leave and who opposes their men in taking out part of the leave. I think it's time to give it the signal from this room that Norwegian men actually have a responsibility for their family. You have to be responsible for someone taking responsibility. If we put in a way that gives signals about how things are going to be, we don't give the responsibility for Norwegian men going into the role of doing their best for how their family works. We can't wait forever to give it responsibility. It's quite right, as they say: the right has thought that the father's quota was a good grip, but not forever. At some point, we have to be clear from the fact that fathers actually have a responsibility to act as good family members, and in that we also have a expectation that they will. Major changes have taken place in working life and in attitudes to gender equality, not least in young families and young couples. I think it is a gross underestimate to believe that they will not implement a good arrangement for their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1067	Some speakers have raised the issue of gender equality. I think, with all due respect for the welfare systems, that what has driven equality is the transition from manual work to education. It has been quite natural to use the talent mass that has been found in all parts of society, whether you were a woman or a man. This has given us a more equal working life, and so the attitudes have also come after it. What has also been promoted is that at an earlier stage, one has wanted to lead through quota decisions, to which the Right also joined. But it becomes like in other areas of society where the state has wanted to lead development, first it has had earmarked grants, and then the municipalities, as they have got it into their service spectrum, have found it right that it has been incorporated into the framework grant based on closer local priority. You can also see that in relation to family life. Who are the closest to making decisions for their everyday lives than just the individual family? What we've really discussed is not for or against equality, it's not for or against the progress of society and economic life. What we've really discussed is that given that all of this information is available to those who are going to make the decisions, it's just as good that it becomes the families, who are aware of the benefits of being equal. You can read divorce statistics and how to deal with the children later in life, you get the arguments you need to have the informed conversation and make the decisions in your home. And it's primarily about the family, and not about the main business organization, which is supposed to shape that choice. You can become a little bit suspicious when you see that the Lighthouse, which in other contexts is very skeptical about having a private business at all, uses an article from a trustee in the NHO as the main argument in this case, when it was really basically the best of the children who were to shape the welfare systems of society in this area. I would also like to make a small visit to the representative, Mr Håbreek, who was concerned that federal quotas were supposed to promote a position in one's own life, where, therefore, career and status are deprioritised. Then I would remind the good representative that if you have to have help with that by the state, you really don't make an informed decision or a moral decision, because it's only decisions taken on the basis of a free will that can be said to be moral high-ranking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1078	It is quite strange to hear the debate on this issue, which affects something of the most private for us as individuals and as a family, that is, to distribute what in many families is the greatest minimum factor, i.e. time together – how parents and children should distribute the resource it is. To the right, this case makes it visible that we want to strengthen the family by giving the family more opportunity to distribute the time they have together as parents and together with the child, as the family believes is best. For the Right, it's strengthening the family, rather than the opposite, that several claim in the debate. I would also like to say that it is rather strange to hear more articles in the debate that bear the mark of a very fundamental mistrust of the labour market, of the processes of the labour market and of employers in particular. I think we could get a lot of good examples of employers who take responsibility. This has been a development over time, as the Right points out in its comments: that this development is moving in the right direction, and that it is the responsibility of the labour force. It's also important to think a little bit about this affecting some of the most private things we have. What will be the next case where the Storing or the Government is thought to know better than the individual, and where, with the best intentions, decisions that affect a large proportion of people's private lives should be raised and taken on the basis of a virtually theoretical approach? For the Right, as I said, this is a manifestation of trust in the family, trust in the individual, and trust that they know best.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1091	I'm recording that the red-greens call the right-hand side naive. The representative of Kolberg, too, believes we are naive. We argue for freedom of choice. I'm not very surprised that the representative of Kolberg can make himself say that, because the representative of Kolberg may not be the one who understands the value of freedom of choice in the first place, that freedom of choice in itself is a value that is so important to the Right that we are willing to sacrifice other goals, such as: full equality – or what you say mom and dad are going to take out exactly equal to quota. This is no more important to the Right than that people should have freedom in the family to figure out how to live their best life and find the good family life, because each family is so different. In some families, there is a disease, either in parents or in the child, or there are other aspects of the first year of the child's life that make it difficult to live in such an A4 life as the red-green want. If Mom and Dad are a public employee, if the family lives the A4 life that the Norwegian government wants us to live in, it's probably not a problem. But life isn't like that. Each family is unique, with different needs. That's why I think it's so strange that the Prime Minister, with the two councillors, Storberget and Lysbakken at the head, has gone out and been so much to preserve this father's quota, even though the three choose to take out their papyrus mission. After all, for a few years, the Prime Minister chose to take a longer paper issue than his father's quota. Now these three gentlemen may be very unique -- maybe they are too -- but in fact, I don't think it's just these three fathers in this country who choose cardboard over their father's quota. I actually think there are other men in this country who want to be at home for up to several months, precisely because it is a value for themselves, for the child and for the family to take out a large part of the parental leave. But it doesn't seem like the prime minister or councillors Lysbakken and Storberget believe that men will be at home if they are not forced to use a federal quota, and if there isn't a rice behind the mirror, by the state saying that if you don't take out the spring quota, the family loses this entire period of association. It's a little special that you don't have more confidence in today's fathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1103	It is easy from this debate to understand that the Right is concerned with the value of freedom of choice, but when you listen to the debate, and when you read the setting, it is absolutely impossible to understand what the Right actually believes about the father's quota and the actual possibility of having a relationship with his children. We in the government parties believe that parental leave, where father takes a substantial part of the leave, is good for the child, because both father and mother become in contact with the child. It's good for mother, because it's good for achieving the goal of equal pay, it's good for what's about a long-term work sharing at home, and it's good for father, because he's working out closer contact with the child. But it's impossible to understand what it's actually having of ambitions for the Norwegian man. That is why I am asking three different questions, which I expect to get answers from the Right before we end the debate. One is, is it a political goal for the Right that fathers should have a greater share of the maternity leave? Is it a pious wish from the Right, or is it resoundingly indifferent to the Right whether father takes out more or less of the birth permit? I hope for the first. For us from the left and from the government parties, this is a political goal, for all three reasons that I ‘lined up’ instead. The second question, to which the representative of Hofstad Helleland has addressed a few times earlier in the debate, but to which I do not feel we have received a proper answer, is that the experience in Denmark is that there are fewer fathers taking leave when one removes a maternity leave earmarked for father. Does Linda C. Hofstad Helleland think there will be more or less fathers taking out long maternity leave in Norway if we do this? If, in fact, there is a decline, for Norway is quite similar to Denmark – if Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Right and the Progress Party were to get through to removing such a scheme, an earmarked scheme for father – I hope we will prevent – and development in Norway is completely identical to that in Denmark, namely that fewer fathers are taking out maternity leave, are they willing to admit that they were wrong, and in such a case, they want to reintroduce a fetal leave, in line with what is in the vote, because this has been an important tool for increasing maternity leave? These three questions I think it is quite reasonable that we, who have listened to the debate, actually get a proper answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1119	The President should not interfere with the answers, but would just remind us that we have come to speaker no. 21 in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1122	There has been a steady flow of right-wing representatives on top of the pulpit in this debate, and that is said to be very interesting. I want to comment on a few of the statements. I take note of the fact that the party leadership in the Right excels with its absence, and that it is also difficult to get Erna Solberg to hold a debate on this topic. It is quite simply because what is today in this Chamber from the Right is called rigid coercion and being principled against freedom of choice, etc., is actually a position which the Right's own leadership shares with us as here argues against the Right, in this debate. We know there's a significant minority in the right. It's interesting when we think about it, and at the same time, the violently aggressive language that comes from the right side related to this system, which the Right itself was up until a year ago. If we're going to take this word seriously, it must mean that until recently the Right was both too coercive and against freedom of choice. I think that's interesting. In this way, those in the Right who have a different point of view have also got their passport carefully prescribed in this debate. Michael Tetzschner said something that I noticed. It was something like equality is not primarily a result of political regulation, but it is the transition from a society based on manual work to the educational community. That's interesting, because it has to mean that there are very few educational communities in the world. It's easy to see that there's a huge difference between equality in Norwegian society and many communities that aren't that far away. I believe that when Danish fathers take parental leave to a very small extent, it is not because Denmark is a society based on manual work, but because Denmark has completely different arrangements from those we have in Norway, and that political courage, political action, is required to create change of attitude and traditional changes if we want to achieve equality. That is why we have come as far as we have done in Norway. It's a great paradox, I have to say, that there's a strong increase in international interest and commitment to the Norwegian parental leave schemes, especially the parental quota, at a time when the opposition in our own greatness wants to tear them down. We live on equality in this country, and so this proposal is something that will be very negative for the Norwegian community and for the Norwegian economy. Linda C. Hofstad Helleland finally said something that I've been waiting for, and that I thought was honest. It was late, but it finally came. She said, "We're willing to sacrifice other goals." In it there is probably some kind of recognition that the little bit half-wheated attempt to claim that removing the feather quota would lead to fathers taking more leave, is not very well supported. What this is all about at the end is: is there a difference between equality and good care for children? I think it's the opposite. I think equality is important for the children. That might be what our disagreement to the seventh and last bottoms of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1135	I should almost have hoped that the reality description that the Right has of the consequence of removing the feather quota was right, that it actually wasn't going to have any dramatic consequences, that it would actually help fathers continue to take out ten weeks of fetal leave, that they might actually be taking out more and that in some way it would be a positive development and trend in the years to come. But that's not going to be the reality. That's what's sad and a little sad, that the right does not realize that the consequence of their proposal is that we will go quite many years back in time, and that in the worst case we might come back to the situation we were in in in the 1990s. It's not something young fathers want. I think that a lot of fathers meet a pretty serious everyday life that day the wife gets pregnant and they experience all the traditional attitudes that are to having children. Before you have a baby, you actually think you're quite equal. I also believe that these coming fathers in the Right believe that. But the day the girl gets pregnant and you're going to sit down and discuss leave, there's a lot of expectations lying there that govern our choices. They are not as individual and free as one later to believe. In fact, there are rather traditional attitudes of grandmothers, employers and eventually the girl with whom to discuss it. Then we're over to the point that Olemic Thommess talked about. He talked about me being like Mrs. Von: I don't believe anything in women's own choices and that we women don't want fathers to take out any fetal leave. But it's still true today that even young girls are quite bound by the traditional gender role pattern. And there's nothing the representative Gjul has dictated! It can even be documented through a Nav report, which is a study of mother and father’s withdrawal from parental leave, which actually has the title ‘Modern Family — Traditional Choice’, which demonstrates that you make very traditional choices based on gender role patterns, and that also in families that do not lose money on it, you choose a very traditional division. How long father is at home is governed by mother's education and professional participation, much more than by other things. If mom wants to be home soon, then dad gets long leave. If mother wants to be home long, there will be short leave on father. That's what governs us today. That's why I think it's a little sad that the Right doesn't see that the consequences of their proposal are going to be pretty dramatic for fathers' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1144	I have no desire to withdraw the debate unnecessarily, but I have received an invitation and challenge from the Right relating to the free elections that we want men to do on behalf of children. I have a great sense of the reasoning behind both the representative Thommessen and the representative Tetzschner from the Right on responsibility, on giving responsibility to Norwegian men, because we want them to take that responsibility. Choices are primarily moral when made on a free basis. Yes, I can agree with a lot of that, but it's not like that, as I said before, that you can make choices in a vacuum. But the sum of attitudes and framework conditions in the society in which you live prefaces that choice. The reality of many people today is that you are up in the choice of how much you should ask for, at a stage where you are often early in your career, you are relatively young compared to others, you have a much older boss, you are on your way into life — or on your way up, maybe some say — and there is a great deal of uncertainty about how the boss and the employer will react. Is it all right with six weeks? Is it okay with ten or twelve weeks, or is it too much? And how do you react? If you're an accountant, you shouldn't apply for a paper issue in the first six months, because then you have so much to do, or in the high season otherwise. There should be flexibility to minimise the burden on all parties. These are the choices that Norwegian men stand up in every single day, and they may even have implications for their further career, precisely because of attitudes in the workplace. A lot has gone forward, but you haven't gotten any further than that. This is what makes this challenging – it is what makes it an interaction between political action and organisation by the authorities and the free choice of each family, so that it actually becomes a real freedom of choice, and that it should be a good family policy, with flexibility and opportunities for both mother and father.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1151	I note with some attention that there are none of the representatives of the right parties who respond to one of the main issues of this debate, which relate to what the whole development of equality in society means for the dynamics of society and its economic development. I just record that it's completely quiet in the living room at that point – no one takes that discussion. I hear that the representative of Hofstad Helleland is trying to be politically sarcastic against me. Of course, she's quite free to try it, but I would have to be a little careful with the reasons she has, because what I think the Norwegian big thing is really very much in agreement with, and which also the Right in many ways has been behind, is that there is a long development in Norwegian society that has contributed to the fact that individual freedom in Norwegian society today is greater than it has ever been in any generation. But it's not because the Right has stood in front. It's because the Right has come after and has not created problems for this development, because the counterpower has been too strong. It is a lesson that the representative of Hofstad Helleland should actually take on. For what is this about in our context today? With regard to the party and the direction that Hofstad Helleland is creating sarcasm in the debate, it is quite simply that we were going through the whole family quota. You voted against it! You voted against it in 1993. Then I would be careful to be sarcastic so many years later, when we talk about what it is that contributes to this whole development. That is the reality. You had 18 weeks at your disposal. Then there was not much freedom of choice. You didn't prioritize these relationships. So if you're talking about individual freedom of choice and freedom for the individual, it's not created by the right. It is made from the left, which is what the representative of Hofstad Helleland is trying – at least with the tone case – to create political sarcasm around it. I don't take that in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1158	The President shall not take a stand for sarcasm, but shall recall that the speech must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1161	I hope that doesn't mean that you should turn your sarcasms to the president too! But through the President of Martin Kolberg, I would say that there may well be a reason why no one went into his reasoning, which we can roughly say was a little about the importance of material production relations for equality in a historical perspective. Firstly, it is beyond the framework of something as humiliating as the free distribution of parental leave, and secondly, it may be that there is an antique issue, which perhaps should not occupy too much time here. On the other hand, I would like to reply to the Council of State Lysbakken and his party trap Holmås, who rhetorically ask: What ambitions do the Norwegian man have? The point is that I belong to a party where it is not the state or parties that have ambitions for individuals. That's ambition we have to have ourselves. I notice that what's the basic contradiction between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of this room is that someone wants to look at society as a machine you can build up to reach some end, while others have a more relaxed relationship. First of all, this leads to a different relationship with the concept of freedom. For us, freedom is not something that the people deserve by proving for a long time that one does nothing dangerous or anything other than what the politicians want, with the sum of their choices. We are more evolutionary and take note that families can choose from their performances and from a knowledge of what serves them best. That's why the representative Holmås will not be given any further explanation as to what ambitions the party Right has for the Norwegian man, whether he should be called Michael Tetzschner or Heikki Holmås. But I can of course be helpful with personal advice after the meeting. Above all, I believe that the debate is based on almost a notion that the family is an institution in the Middle Ages, without modern impulses. Therefore, they do not have the confidence to make responsible joint decisions, which are considered to be of concern from a governance point of view. You can be reminded of Bertolt Brecht, who was otherwise left-wing. But after the uprising against the GDR regime, he said that the people had failed the trust of the Central Committee, and the Central Committee therefore decided to find a new people. I think we need to take on board what ordinary people and families choose here in society, rather than steer family policy in a political direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1172	The next speaker is Thomas Breen, then Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1175	I always listen carefully when the Right starts talking about freedom of choice, morality and responsibility. It's often an interesting debate when it's lifted by the Right. For me, freedom of choice is not an end in itself – one must at least assess the consequences of that freedom of choice. That's when I get very concerned when Hofstad Greece says that we can well introduce this freedom of choice at the expense of other goals, without defining the objectives. I think the Norwegian voters have a right to know: what will the Right agree with? That's the one question I need to get an answer to. The second is that when Thommes talks about Norwegian men and that we from the government parties suggest that they are slippers, it is true that in 2002 the federal quota was abolished in Denmark, and today the result is that 25 pst. by Danish men withdraw fetal leave. What is it about Norwegian culture and employment that makes this not happen in Norway? What mechanisms do we have in Norway that we do not have in Denmark, which means that the right-hand side still believes that this should go well? Or is it so that the dimensions you can go on chords with, e.g. Is there a need for contact with father? Is that what the Right really wants? These are quite central and important value issues, and a family policy that I believe both the other political parties and the voters have a right to know what the Right really means. Now there has been a debate where the Right has gone up to this pulpit and almost tried to misjudge its own national meeting decision. In any case, it has not been very informative what the objective of the Right Family Policy is, in addition to the word ‘freedom of choice’. What does Right think about the consequences of that freedom of choice? What is it about Norwegian society that means that we do not have a similar situation in Norway that has been achieved in Denmark? So that's not how Tetzschner might suggest in his post, that there's a big difference between Norwegian society and Danish society. These are very profound, important questions, which I believe the Right must resolve quite quickly. If not, we will have a debate that is very suspicious, not very informative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1188	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1191	No, the right has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1197	It is up to each representative to appear on the list of speakers and, where appropriate, to withdraw from the list. Is it so that Holmås, after the President knocked, would have the floor in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1202	I thought there was another one that was going to have posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1207	It's enough that someone has to sign up on the list of speakers to get on it. The last drawn on the list of speakers was the Olemic Thommess, who snuffed out, and thus the debate is closed. [[Fooding, see page 3823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1223	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1239	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1263	Here in Stortinget, we have discussed and commented on challenges in Norwegian school a number of times in the last year. Let me try to frame up someone: low learning outcomes for many students, as many as 20 pst. students cannot read and write well enough after 10 years of primary school; Norwegian school students score the lowest in the Nordic countries on international surveys; developments have gone wrong in the last 10 years despite increased hours and other bets, between 20 and 30 pst. students in higher education do not complete, but fall from, too few choose real higher education courses, and the level of knowledge is decreasing for students who start these studies today, compared to what it was 10–15 years ago — despite the fact that today’s fresh students have one year more education behind them than they had 15 years ago. All of this is quite depressing for those of us who are concerned that Norwegian students should get the best possible starting point and be able to compete with students from other countries about places of study and work internationally. And when Norway spends more at school than all the rich countries in the world, it is not acceptable that it is so bad. It may not always be right to talk about what is not good in Norwegian school – I know that the Council of State has been concerned about it – but the statistics and results in school are so worrying that we simply can't let go of discussing this. For us in the Right, it's not about a desire to paint black, but about taking the problems in school seriously. If we're going to have high ambitions for Norwegian school and our students, today's situation is unsustainable. This spring, a TV series called Brainwashing created a lot of debate. The series has made it possible and more politically correct to discuss biological differences, including: between boys and girls. That there may be differences that can't be erased from equality and non-discrimination, and that affect both boys and girls' education and development, it hasn't been so legitimate to talk about in school in the last ten years. After the magazine of Bergen mentioned the theme of my interpellation, a lot of teachers and schoolmen have approached me with stories confirming this. Increasingly more research material, both in Norway and in other countries, gives us more and more knowledge of rather eye-catching gender differences, which are relevant to the school. Let me mention some of what we know today: guys score on average significantly worse than girls in almost every subject. This difference is systematic, and it's increased in recent years. Guys not only get worse grades, but they also work weaker socially, despite boys confiscating more resources in school than the girls. 70 pst. by all students who receive special education are boys. Behavioral problems and diagnosis such as autism and ADHD affect four to five times more boys than girls. But also boys without any diagnosis differ from girls in terms of learning, motor skills, concentration and social behavior. To believe the researchers, boys have bigger problems than girls in dealing with independent forms of work, group and project work, week plans and what we call today 'larger responsibility for own learning'. All this has become more common in Norwegian school in recent years, and it is likely that this is at least some of the explanation that differences between boys and girls have increased, and in boys’ disfavor. Looking at the lack of secondary education, especially in the professional field, this is also a major problem for boys. Various researchers and schoolpeople claim that there has been a feminisation of the school. I think everyone will agree that a better balance between the number of male and female teachers is important in school, just as it is in kindergarten. Both boys and girls need positive role models of their own sex, and then it's probably a problem that fewer and fewer male teachers, especially children and middle class. I would nevertheless stress that I do not believe that female teachers are worse at teaching boys than men. I know there are many examples of the opposite. And I'm absolutely sure that the teacher's competence and commitment are far more important than gender in this context. But I see that the absence of positive male role models for boys in adulthood is highlighted as a problem by many researchers, and that some researchers and schoolpeople claim that this has done something about the culture in school, which thus less emphasises the specific needs of boys. Some municipalities include: Trondheim, has brought this topic up for school policy discussion. Some municipalities have made occasional attempts at gender-based education. The newspaper mentioned May 6th, for example: Kautokeino school, which for one year shared boys and girls at the 7th grade in each of its classes. According to teacher Kirsten Marit Olsen, the school was very pleased with the results. To Dagbladet she says that the boys got more active, they were hours out of the classroom, and they got to attend and plan the teaching. They got a separate set of homework from day to day, and dropped the weekly schedules. The school would like to continue with the project, but had to stop it after one year, as shared education is not allowed in Norwegian school. ‘Guys are different from girls. They went better in a boy class," said teaching director Kirsten Marit Olsen to Dagbladet. I don't want Norwegian school to go back to the permanent sex sharing of classes and schools of the past, but I'm pretty sure that Norwegian school today is unable to take into account the fairly large biological differences between boys and girls that research has shown. And since ‘adapted education’ is a honorary word in Norwegian school, we have to be dry to discuss whether non-sex-adapted education should also be an instrument that the school should be able to use today in cases where it is deemed appropriate. I would therefore challenge the Minister of Knowledge whether it is not time for today's legislation to soften in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1282	As a starting point for the debate on the difference between girls and boys in Norwegian school, it is important to put into perspective what we have of research and knowledge in this area. And there are systematic differences in the learning outcomes between girls and boys. We see that the difference in performance has been relatively stable over time when we are applying for different research material that we have about this. We see that girls have taken back what the boys have traditionally had in the real world. But these aren't the greatest systematic differences we see in school. It is worth noting that the differences we see between girls and boys in Norwegian school are three to four times less than differences in grades between students with different family backgrounds. Within both sexes, there is wide variation in school performance, and the average differences between boys and girls are not dramatic. Differences based on the social class background of students are significantly larger, and are one of the biggest challenges we have in Norwegian school. And the production of boys as systematic losers in Norwegian school and girls as systematic winners in Norwegian school is a significant oversimplification of a rather complicated process that we are facing. So my first point is: let's discuss the difference between girls and boys in Norwegian school, but let's not exaggerate the inequalities we see, because the variation between girls and boys is much larger than what we see between boys and girls when we compare. This is the social difference that is the real — the systematic — reason for differences in Norwegian school. So to a little bit of what we know about developments in this area, and that the representative Warloe is also concerned about. He seems to have come to the conclusion that the more male teachers there are in Norwegian school, the easier it is for boys to get better school performance. That's not right. There may be a lot of reasons why you want a better mix of women and men among the employees in Norwegian school, but there's no reason, no research evidence, to say that where there are female teachers who dominate, boys get worse. If you find a relationship, it's actually the opposite. We have an analysis of national samples carried out by the Centre for Economic Research. It shows that pupils’ performance is slightly lower in schools with a high proportion of male teachers. A detailed analysis shows that schools with a high proportion of male teachers have lower performances in English, but not in the other two subjects measured in national tests, i.e. Norwegian and mathematics. The analysis also finds that the performance of boys is negatively correlated with the proportion of male teachers. So the view of the desire to recruit more male teachers may have important, social role model reasons, but there's no professional evidence to say that the boys would do something better. There are several other claims in the debate where the conclusions are also simplified. The question of gender-based education is an increasingly recurring topic, and has also been addressed by the interpellant. We know that this is pretty little widespread in Norwegian school. It is true that there have been some types of attempts at this, but the vast majority of students have expressed no desire to divide girls and boys into different groups. There are many different international studies on the effect of dividing into purely girls and boys, but it is not possible to draw one conclusion from the experience we have behind it. We can see that the analysis of national samples shows that the gender composition of a class may have an impact on the results. The girls are significantly better performing when the proportion of girls in the class increases, but also for the boys it has a small positive effect to be in a class with many girls – but only in English. However, if the proportion of the girl exceeds 70 pst, the beneficial effect disappears. Therefore, the analysis of what we have of national samples does not support the claim that pure classes of boys and girls will benefit students. There are many questions that can be asked in this discussion, including, for example: whether we have a school that's more adapted to the values girls have or girls' way of being, which makes girls feel better at school. We know that there are all-round little differences in girls and boys' attitudes. If we look at the 16-year-olds, and now I refer to the study called Young People in Norway from 2002, there are very small differences in the attitudes of girls and boys towards the school. Both girls and boys thrive relatively well, and both sexes are fortunately concerned about working well at school, and that it is important for later in life that you do just that. However, this survey shows that girls are more industrious and spend more time in school than boys, both in high school and in high school. What we have from research doesn't make it clear, as the interpellant bombastic, that the difference between girls and boys in Norwegian school has been increasing lately. It shows that there are differences in the school performance of girls and boys, but they are not dramatic, and there are other differences that are much more important to be aware of if you want to balance the differences in Norwegian school. That means you have to approach that problem without exaggerating gender differences. It is correct, as the representative of Warloe says, that Section 8-2 of the Training Act says that no systematic distribution of gender or ethnicity should take place over time. That means you can do it in certain periods, but there are limitations on how to do this. This is a paragraph that I'm looking at in more detail how it makes sense to handle. It is also about the question of level-sharing and how to deal with that issue in Norwegian school. But I think that if you use everything you have of research material in this area, there are few points that should support us in the fact that Norwegian school is served by systematically sharing over time between girls and boys. That for a period of time you can put the girls together in one group and the boys in another group and work with different subjects or different attitudes is another thing. There's a certain opening for today, but a limited opening for the representative. I'm very concerned that we're going to get a more practical organized school — a more reality school. I think both girls and boys could have significant benefits of that. It may be that there would be some more boys who would feel that they met their way of approaching theory better through it, but it is important to stress that the variation between girls and the variation between boys is greater than between girls and boys. So here we're talking about a kind of approach to the school reality that both sexes would benefit from. I think there are some oversimplifications in the discussion about the difference between girls and boys at school. It's a topic that it's important to approach the sum of what we have of research material on this. There's a systematic difference between the boys performing a little bit worse than the girls, but there's nothing to suggest that we're oversimplifying in that way that we're establishing that the boys are systematically school losers and the girls are systematically schoolwinners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1308	I thank the Council of State for her answer, but I think maybe we have a slightly different view of the seriousness of this knowledge, which I feel at least that the researchers have presented to us on a number of occasions. As an example, I can mention a seminar that our committee held in the premises of the Norwegian Research Council, where we were presented for a very large school research project that is still going on. The council said – and I think it was one of the important things she said – that the differences between boys and girls are there, but they're not dramatic. Researchers, as I have heard, have said that the differences between boys and girls in Norway correspond to the differences between Norwegian students and Finnish students in the PISA survey. Finland is doing it best in the world, to put it that way, among the countries participating in the PISA survey, and Norway is doing it exactly in the middle of the tree. If I remember correctly, the Council of State has also said that it is an important challenge for her that Norwegian students should claim, that is, raise their level, in the PISA study. That means that if this difference is equal, it should give cause for concern. The problems associated with many boys' problems in finding a place in school also have implications for how they are going later in life, and for society as a whole. Guys who get a bad start, a crooked start in school, will be able to have problems that characterize the rest of their lives. Societal and russian Arne Klyve, who I believe is a wise man, has recently written a book called "Sinte young men". Here he points to the growing group of young men without adequate schooling, without a basis for participation in the labour market and without a positive sense of identity. I know the author's political starting point. It's very far from my own, but I think this book is worth recommending anyway. Arne Klyve writes in the book “Sinte young men” the following: ‘Some boys are becoming increasingly losers in the modern knowledge society that reward social skills, adaptability and talent for theoretical learning higher than physical strength and self-esteem. The less real and positive experience boys have with men and positive masculinity, the more prevalent is likely to be an out-dated stereotype of the notion of manhood and a hypermaskulin manner.» The Minister of Knowledge has stated that the fight against dropout in high school is her mainly in the next few years. This is, to a large extent, a boy's problem, especially in professional matters, but it does not start in higher education, it often ends there, unfortunately. So the struggle of the Council of State against high school dropouts must be conducted with measures that take place throughout all ten years of primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1326	I think maybe we'll get a little bit further in this debate if we highlight what kind of research we're referring to. Here you will face international research that shows the same thing as what I was into initially. It's systematic that girls do it a little bit better than boys in almost every subject, and the change we've seen lately is that the girls have become a little bit better in math and real science. But these are not huge variations. As far as I'm aware, it was Professor Kirsti Klette who used this little comparison with Finland. If you compare Norwegian girls and Finnish students – both boys and girls – they are on the same level. If you take Norwegian guys, you bring them down a little bit. But it also says something about that when we compare e.g. PISA results, there are no dramatic differences. Finland is better than us, but there are no huge differences. One of the studies that I'd like to speculate that the representative of Warloe is thinking about is Professor Thomas Nordahl's study, where he has been based on 1997 characters. He finds there a gender difference of 0.23 pst. between girls and boys in the subjects of Norwegian, English and mathematics, and that difference in 2006 had increased to 0.37 pst. It is — what to say — a significant increase in the differences between girls and boys. However, some changes have occurred in Norwegian school since this may require a change in the results of this survey. It's not that when we compare with other types of studies, we can conclude that there's a big negative change in the way that the difference between boys and girls is that boys' performance is getting worse; it's as a starting point. When one is said, I would say that it is perfectly obvious that, for example. the issue of non-response that we have in secondary education has an important gender perspective. The male dominated lines have a significantly higher drop-out than the girl-dominated lines. Professionals have a significantly higher non-response. It is also certain that the basis for the non-admission is not included in secondary education. It is added to the knowledge that comes with you when you start high school. We probably don't find the full answer in high school either, but it starts at least there and earlier. So working systematically for all students to have basic skills in Norwegian, mathematics, etc. is essential to succeed in getting the drop-off. But then, even though there's some systematics here, we don't have to exaggerate it, but see that it also has a gender dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1337	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting this topic on the agenda. Different international surveys show a trend — boys generally make it worse than girls in almost all disciplines. TIMSS, which studies mathematics and science at the lower stages, shows that the boys score about as well as the girls at the fourth and eighth stages. The study shows that there's a tendency for boys to do it a little bit better than the girls in mathematics at the lowest levels in school, but that this difference seems to be evening out in youth. Where one sees a marked difference, is in reading. Here the girls generally do it significantly better than the boys. This shows PISA from 2006 and national samples. The points of view of the youth show that girls get higher grades in most subjects. These differences continue in high school, where boys score higher only in chemistry 2 and in social English — this in preparatory studies. These figures are difficult to draw from any conclusion, but there is no doubt that there are systematic differences in learning outcomes between girls and boys. The difference in performance between boys and girls is relatively stable over time, but the TIMSS shows that girls have re-occurred the boys have traditionally had in the real world. As I said, the girls score better in reading. Reading is central, and essential for all further learning. At an early stage of school, intensive reading courses must be provided for those who are struggling. In their question to the Council of State, the interpellant sketches different elements that may be the cause of gender differences. I would like to start by referring to some of the main points that I think we need to bring with us in a debate like this. The main reason for the differences in school is the educational background of parents. This takes place to a greater extent than gender differences, which are three to four times less than the differences in grades between pupils with different family backgrounds, which were also addressed by the Council of State. We know that the parent’s level of education is what characterises whether the children complete 13-year-old education and take higher education. In both sexes, there is great variation in school performance, and the average differences between boys and girls are not dramatic. Differences based on the social class background of pupils are significantly greater. Another element that matters is where you live in the country. This is what kind of primary education you get. Municipalities with a high focus on school learning score high on national tests and are more able to balance social and gender differences. Whether it is secondary education near your place of residence or you have to move on to the hybel is recorded for the completion of secondary education. A third element is the mantra ‘responsible for own learning’, which took place in Norwegian schools in the 1990s. Studies have shown that this worked well for the good girls, while it fit less well for the boys. Studies suggest that the teacher's competence and ability to disseminate are more important for students' learning than the teacher's gender. The teacher's sex has less, or none, meaning. In the debate that has taken place in recent times – and also here in the Chamber now – female teachers are partly blamed for the downturn of the boys. Both national and international studies show that this is a wrong conclusion. Many suggest that it has little to say for the very classroom interaction of boys and girls have learned from the same or opposite sex. It's also uncertain whether boys learn more if they have a male teacher. Here, research is fragile, but most studies conclude that this has no — or very limited — significance. The interpellant asks questions about whether we should divide the teaching groups into purely girl and boy groups. This is education policy in reverse, and I am surprised that in 2010 we have this debate. I will strongly warn against it. I believe that boys enjoy going with girls of the same class – and vice versa. Then one learns one another and becomes better acquainted with each other's qualities and weaknesses than if one goes into a gender-based class or group. The renowned school researcher John Hattie has undergone relevant research on the gender-divided school and concludes that there are no significant differences in performance if the educational group is gender-divided or non-divided. But, as was said earlier, there are many different views and a lot of research both domestically and abroad on this. This is an important debate. In order for everyone to succeed in the Norwegian school, this discussion must also continue beyond this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1363	We in the Progress Party record that the Right is in charge of gender-divided education, and support it with girls and boys learning in different ways. We are positive about debating different alternative methods and new ways of looking at things – seeing classing with new, fresh eyes, and seeing how to possibly improve it. We believe it is important to take into account the educational and professional aspects of such a debate, and we see that differences between the sexes in school have an impact. I am very pleased that this is being put on the agenda. Having said that, I would like to say that it is important that any new methods of learning and education are justified in the professional development of each student and the promotion of competence in school in general. It could be right, as the Right points out, that boys and girls generally learn different ways. Within the gender groups, too, there are enormous differences in how quickly you learn, how to learn, and what type of education you actually need. This does not mean that a hybrid by gender does not necessarily imply that the pupils in each of their gender groups receive the adapted training they actually need and are entitled to. We in the Progress Party believe that the changes you make in school and, where appropriate, in the class structure should be educationally anchored and adapted to the individual student's professional skills, and not based on external indicators such as gender, origin or other. That is why on several occasions we have called for increased use of e.g. vocationally differentiated education, precisely because training is adapted to the level of each individual’s professional and learning progress, and not to other indicators — or to the random classification of the group that you actually have today. It is important that there is a dynamic group structure, where the level and progress of students can also change over time, and that you look at it. This is how we will fulfill our Right-wing intention, namely more adapted training for each individual, but by indicators that are more dynamic and more specific to each individual. Furthermore, we also believe that beginning to divide by gender in an equal society is not the right way to go. We have significant challenges in our society, for example. cultural inequalities between the immigrant population and us. One of the most important principles I think we're going to have, and as we have in school, is that with gender equality, the fact that all children meet on a similar arena, where you are judged and judged or measured by your personal effort, and not by gender or by which country you come from, or ethnic origin or such things. The fact that we have that school platform today is incredibly important, and a gender sharing will then bring indicators and factors other than personal effort into the assessment. At the same time, we must remember that in working life, girls and boys must work together. Then you will be put together, and then you will be assessed according to the professional level – according to the competence in the field you are actually working on. If you find yourself in a situation where the boys and girls have not cooperated, where they are not used to project work or other types of pedagogical methods from school, where you have to work across the sexes, then working together can also pose challenges in the workplace. At the same time, I think you don't have to start dividing classes by sex, and then create an artificial distinction between sex. Because one of the things that's so important in our society is that we're equal, that we have equal opportunities, that we're equal, that we have the same rights and the same goals, and that we can achieve the same goals regardless of gender. That's what we're going to teach the generations, and we're not going to divide the students by gender. As I said, we are very positive about looking at new alternative methods to increase competence, to ensure that students get more adapted training, but it has to be done according to quality indicators, such as the individual student's efforts, the professional level and the method of learning, and not by gender.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1382	This with the difference between boys and girls in learning ability and learning outcomes is an interesting problem. As others have said, the facts on the ground are in some ways irrefutable, and if there's a movement, the girls are about to take back the boys where there's a head start. So data is unique, but they are far from being as dramatic as what emerges from the question in the debate here today. There is a lot of important and exciting research and development work – as already mentioned – to find out the reasons for these differences and, not least, what to do to reduce them, given that this is what we want. After the debate on the federal quota earlier today in the Chamber, I have become a little more uncertain about where, not least, the Right is in the gender debate here in society. Then it may be that I read the question here from Warloe in a slightly distorted way, that I read it first and foremost as Warloe is concerned about showing greater concern for the boys, in isolation – that it is a problem that they are not seen, and that they have to get the learning outcomes that they are entitled to. It's an interesting issue – for all things, I'm not going to reject it – that we have to see in the context of, such as, among other things. The Council of State was in the midst of the debate we have on adapting education more generally. Of course, the starting point should be this with everyone's right to learning, in order to use the title of the Midlyng Committee setting. The SV's starting point is that we're generally very sceptical about, and we're going to be very careful about, dividing classes into subgroups. In this case, it would be a defeat if we had to resort to that instrument. That's a point in itself, like, among other things. The representative Hanekamhaug argued well for keeping student groups together as much as possible. There's a lot of the good development work going on in Norwegian school today, where one not least adds to more varied learning methods, which I don't think least the boys will appreciate, and which will capture more of what they're looking for in order to thrive better at school and learn more at school. It's very important that we notice that, I think. We get the practical in again to a greater degree. We're going to have some homework. It's very important. We're getting into the work force. Maybe we can eventually get the electoral profession back in a good way. That's a big point at our school -- and it's almost, at least for an SV, seen as some kind of basic competence -- that one in school should learn to associate with others, that one should develop, we can call it, relationship skills or social skills, learn to live with one another, and not least maybe first discover and later learn to live with and positively play with one another. this with a gender dimension. Because if we want an equal society – and despite the debate earlier today, I hope that the Right is still interested in it – we just need to use the kindergarten and school arena to promote such an important and fundamental value in our society. The school mirrors society, and then the school doesn't have to organize itself so that it almost escapes from the challenges we have in society, as such a division into gender-divided classes can be perceived as, and can function as. In that context, I think the uniform debate can also be placed. So, by introducing a school uniform, we run away from the problem, instead of helping to solve the problem. The challenges young people face in society must be addressed in the kindergarten and school arena. We have to bring them up for debate there, and then we have to try to solve them, gradually remove them, more than through segregation, and almost more play on them and strengthen them, so that, among other things, the challenge of gender equality is becoming even more difficult to solve in the future. So summed up: one must understand and have full respect for -- it's very important -- the problems that have been revealed, and as part of our boys experience in school. But it is very important to choose an instrument that is appropriate and appropriate in relation to the many other goals that we have in our school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1403	It is an interesting issue that the representative Warloe addresses, and it has been said very well and useful so far in the debate. Warloe refers to recent Norwegian research showing increasing differences between boys and girls’ learning outcomes over the past 10–15 years. Development, says the interpellant, can be explained by, among other things. changed teaching methods such as group and project work, use of weekly plans and sea-going work forms. In response to this demand, interpellant attempts at gender-divided education and the use of gender-neutral education especially for boys, since these are the ones that mostly drop out of high school. To me it seems a little strange and simply a little illogical. If it is that school research shows that boys learn worse through group and project work, weekly plans and seagoing work forms, I don't understand why gender-divided education should be the answer. Why should we split into virgin girls' and boys' classes rather than change methods and be even more aware of the ways in which a guy thinks he's working? Governments have shown in a good way that research on the subject is not very unambiguous. The center party doesn't want clean boy and girl classes. The research does not support a good reason for that either. For us, it is more important that the teacher has broad competence in methods and is conscious of learning principles. In this way, one can at any time consider and assess the actual needs and effects of the methods used. And lately, we've also heard that boys seem to get to cards in classes where girls are overweight, while girls are better off in classes where boys are overweight. This also indicates that girls mature earlier than boys. But we don't think that boys should start a year later at school because they're not mature enough, or that they should go one year longer, sail if it's basically logical from maturity that it should be like that. Or does the interpellant mean it? The center party thinks it makes sense to further research on boys' and girls' learning outcomes. What works, and what doesn't work out by the different methods? Which principles of learning have the best effect? Such research has been a little too poor in Norway. In general, we have done too little research into Norwegian school content and practice. I believe it is also good to be able to research on gender-based education, but I believe it is essential that a retaining classes like today, with both girls and boys. However, this shall not prevent a person from having different themes for girls and boys, such as: Girls and real subjects, the group at Dønski secondary school that we heard about last week's Tekna conference. At the end, one has to look at what makes the good teacher achieve good results if the student group is made up of both boys and girls. What is the special X factor that someone has and that others don't have? I want qualitatively good research on this over time. One challenge is that we have neither teachers nor students who are quite alike. That's why we have to spend time. I think the most important thing we can do is to provide a good teacher training that gives teachers a good understanding of and insight into different methods, awareness of learning principles and learning outcomes. Secondly, we need to provide continuing education, as well as challenge school owners and school leaders in discussions on the principle of learning and learning outcomes in each school. School must constantly be a learning organisation. Thirdly, we need to provide more and better school research that focuses on the use of methods, learning principles and learning outcomes. When I went to teacher's school, we learned that all hours should motivate, activate, concrete, vary, inspire and have elements of cooperation. It's very demanding, but very important to remember. The party doesn't want clean boys' and girls' schools or boys' and girls' classes. We're going to live together in a community throughout our lives, a community we're going to be part of from the very beginning in kindergarten or in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1433	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a debate that I think is important for us in the Stortinget to take. It allows reflection and illumination of the theme. Because it's serious that boys do it worse in school than girls. The Christian People's Party wants a school with equal opportunities for everyone, and then we have to see what factors are playing when the result seems to be as skeptical as it is today. However, there is reason to stress that the image is not one-sided black-and-white. There are many girls who do it well, but there are also some girls who are struggling. I think you might sometimes read statistics to find the results you've looked for yourself a little bit. It's true that you measure the average, it's not the big, dramatic difference between boys and girls like you see it in school today. What I was concerned about when we were presented with the research that was referred to by the representative Warloe is that among those who are struggling in school with professional difficulties, behavioral problems and ADHD, 70 pst. Guys. That is 30 pst. There are girls. It's in those numbers that it's serious, seen from the eyes of the Christian People's Party. I read for a while back an interview with some boys at the Renting School in Trøndelag who tried to find answers as to why the boys are slowing down compared to the girls. They think it's important for a lot of guys to be cool and stand out in the band. That doesn't necessarily mean good grades are something to gamble with. It's cooler to be good at the football field than to be good at math. Guys who do well at school are easily perceived as a little bit nerdy. But if you're good both at the football field and at school, that's okay, meant the three. The girls get more acceptance in their friends if they get good grades, they said. Now, the statements of the students cannot be seen as a research-based description, but it's still interesting, because it's a description of how some students themselves feel. Most of all, it says something about us facing a complex problem that involves much more than just school. The debate on the different outcomes of boys and girls in school is interesting, among other things. because it concerns an important theme that has been under discussion in the gender equality debate in the last 30 years. Are boys and girls the same? The question has also been updated by Harald Eia's TV series Brainwashing. I'm not going to undertake to give the right answer to that. But one thing I want to emphasize: Some guys are similar. They're so-called girlettes. And some girls are alike, or so-called boys. For the Christian People's Party it means that making pure gender-divided classes won't solve the problem that there are some who won't recognize themselves in the big whole. There will always be someone who will feel different. We have to facilitate that we get one class of great diversity. Often it is not the revolutionary grips or the new reforms you have to resort to in order to bring about a desired change. I remember that when the books about Harry Potter came, this was reflected in many boys' reading. Finally, there came some books that both boys and girls read simply because they wanted to, and because they thought it was interesting. A simple grip, such as allowing children to read more of what they are interested in, more than standard texts, can actually produce results – perhaps especially for boys. Series such as Fact Exercise, if, among other things, Space and football, and Taynikma is therefore very positive in this respect. Another element is the relationship between theory and practice in school. We've long pointed out that school is too theoretical, especially in youth. It's too little practical and physical activity. It is about how it is taught in individual subjects, but also about how school life is organized. Interestingly, when the government chooses to spend a billion dollars. kr to give the smallest children extra hours, it is primarily the theory subjects it is added to. I think that more practical and less theoretical hours, more adapted teaching methods and clearer weekly schedules could make school life better for many of the boys. But not for everyone. Because there is a danger that when we big-time politicians discover a statistic or a problem, we are then gripped by the problem that we run the school right into the second ditch. We must not turn girls' well-being into a problem in Norwegian school, and as Haldis Holst of the Federation of Education said: ‘We must not construct a contrast between a girls’ premise school and a boys’ premise school.’ She goes on to say, ‘It is good that many are concerned about how all children can develop good school performance, and it is important for us as teachers to apply all the knowledge we have in teaching.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1469	When I was a high school social teacher, we once put a statistic in front of us that showed that single men live shorter than married men, and that single women live longer than married women. So I asked the class what was the conclusion of this, and one of my students quickly said, "That means that men must be harmful to health." [[Laughter]] Statistics can be used for many different conclusions. This has become a research debate on different research conclusions. But we can only say that with regard to the atmosphere in a clean woman's workplace, or in a clean man's workplace, there are certainly some advantages, but also some disadvantages in both workplaces. Most people have to deal with a everyday life when you get out of school, where you're mixed up. The point is, I guess we have a dream of a school that extends more and more towards a much more customized education, a training that sees and admits the differences between boys and girls, but that can take account of it. I'm going to repeat it indefinitely: to get it right, the most important tool is good teachers who know the differences, know the different motivations, and know how to stimulate and motivate different groups to work. So I think you should be open to make pedagogical approaches related to gender sharing. I personally went to a high school class with many very dominant girls – strange as it sounds. So in gym and formalization we were divided into boys and girls groups. I think we girls marked that, but I think the boys thought it was absolutely amazing. I think that sometimes you have to see that, for example. in some disciplines can do such a thing, simply because you have people who take so much space that sometimes it can be a part of giving a group in a class better space and better follow-up. Otherwise, I think Mette Hanekamhaug made a very good contribution to the everyday life we actually want to stretch towards at school – that the everyday life we're going to prepare our rivers for is a everyday life when both sexes are going to live together, and that we have to do it in the best possible way. We in the Left have some trainees inside from the Young Left, and one of them would look at this matter for me when I was going to prepare. He comes from Østfold, and gave me the following fact as information: Lars Sponheim was among the first boys who started at Halden school. I'm very glad he did. I am very pleased that he went to a school where there were both girls and boys, various professional levels and different ethnicity, although the mixture in Eastfold was not so great just when he went to school. Now it's not called Halden's cock school anymore, now it's called Us School. I think the grips that were done just then are very important for the broad school we have today. There is no country we can reach for that has achieved amazing results with this grip. But we need to have tolerance for what is a pedagogical grip. My nightmare is that you look at the stereotypes, the quiet girls and the fighting boys, and then you put the quiet girls in a class that maybe doesn't need that many resources, maybe don't need so many teachers, because it's the rowdy boys that need big teaching resources. That's something I hope we're going to avoid, because here it's about using the resources on those who need it, and letting all the people reach out for their goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1482	I would like to thank those who have spoken in the debate. I think this is a debate that will come back – if not here in the hall, so at least in other forums between others, whether they're researchers or people who work in school. I have to say that it was relatively alarming to hear that Lars Sponheim had gone to Halden's school as a kid. I assume that at least he had not begun to build a beard at that time. Otherwise, I have to say that in part of the posts that have been held, and where you have referred to my post, I have probably presented what I have said, considerably more unsound and bombastic than what I myself can read out of my own script. Now it is also true that most of these posts are probably written in advance, before you had heard my – in my opinion – very nuanced posts. I will then use my last post to comment on some statements. It's said, I think it was Anna Ljunggren who said that social differences mean more than the differences between boys and girls – students in general. I agree. The point is that the school can't do so much with the social differences that exist at the starting point. You can try to compensate, but we know that Norwegian school is doing very little. It has been said many times – including from this pulpit, I'm sure – that the school reproduces social differences. It means that it's very difficult to do something about it, but if there's systematic gender outcomes and differences, the school can actually do something about it through a gender-adapted education. That's been my point. I have never blamed women teachers, rather on the contrary – I stressed it strongly in my post. It is clear that there are great differences within the boys group and in the girls group – of course that is what people are different individuals. But the question is, if there are any cases where these, we'll say, boys' traits are so strong that it creates problems for the teaching of a whole class – for that matter also in the case of girls – it's clear that it would be positive for these boys to get a specially adapted education, as the experience from Kautokeino School shows. Then I have to say to Aksel Hagen, who thinks it's a defeat to divide classes into groups: yes, if it's a political defeat, I'll be willing to live with it as long as it can turn the defeat for them, i.e. the students who lose, to something better. It was precisely the teacher, a woman, who said to Dagbladet, that it was better for the boys to go in a group of boys, for the boys it was for – not for all the boys, but for the boys it was for. Then the question is, are we willing to sacrifice these students' schooling, learning outcomes, for the politically correct attitude, that this is a failure to carry out? I think it is too high a price to pay. Then Aksel Hagen was also in the debate that was here earlier today, about the father's quota. He was uncertain about where the Right now stood in these questions relating to equality. I'm probably not the right one to be challenged on that particular point, because I belong to the minority in my own party – I was opposed to the proposal that got a majority at the national meeting, to wind up today's system of father quotas. So I'll leave that debate. On the issue of whether the differences are large, whether the measures could work or whether there are other measures that could work better, I would say that we need to be willing to discuss a wide range of issues and actions. It is important that schools can choose from a menu of interventions, because students are different, and the measures must be different. We must give that freedom of choice to the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1499	I think this has been a very good and nuanced debate. There is a broad consensus in the UK and in the Education Committee that there are systematic differences between girls and boys in school performance – but they are not violent, and that is not the biggest differences we see. There's much greater variation between the girls and between the boys than what we can find between the sexes. I think that's a research-based and knowledge-based approach to this issue, but it's clear that we see systematic differences between girls and boys. It's interesting to find out how we're going to do this, but I agree with all those in the debate who have said that when there are so many differences within girls and inwards among boys, the most interesting approach is adapted to training – because the breadth and variation are so great. It's e.g. Also, there are systematic differences between the brains of girls and boys, according to the research – without me going into brainwashing – but they are not so systematic and so big that there is some reason to put so much emphasis on it further. For example, the part of the brain that has to do with reading is a little bit different developed, but that shouldn't be any reason to make systematic other approaches for girls than for boys, because the variation among girls and among boys is still the largest. I think the debate has been much more nuanced than the text of the interpellation could suggest. It's not that we can systematically and over time see that the differences get significantly larger. We see that the girls take again some of the little jump that the boys have had in mathematics. But it's kind of, with the nuanced approach we can get to this. I think that what we know from research in general in the field of gender-based education is more important than one experiment and one example in Kautokeino has summarised as – certainly – important findings in them. What we know about gender-based education is that there are no systematic good reasons for dividing into girls and boys, even though it is in some contexts, for example. as regards encouraging the girls in mathematics, or encouraging the boys in view of a little more social skills, may have an impact. So just a little comment in the end about what's practical and what's theoretical a practical subject, but it's just about the way you put it up. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1510	This means that the time has come to speak and the debate on substance. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1524	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1535	People have always been on the move. It's nothing new. Exploitation, conquest, flight from famine, poverty, war and oppression are part of the history of humanity, including our own, close Norwegian history. We're not going to go further than approx. a hundred years back in time. Norway was one of the poorest countries in Europe. The Central Statistical Office describes Norwegian immigrants’ justification for leaving their country of origin: the economic opportunities in America, difficult soil conditions and high unemployment at home, poor crops, unfortunate fishing and, last but not least, encouraging letters from former Americans. People traveled for a better future for themselves and theirs. There might as well have been a description of the background for parts of today's migration image. We can make a stop 30-40 years later, in our dark chapter, from 1940 to 1945. Some of the North escaped for their lives. The lucky ones did it and got safe in other countries. Others didn't make it, and we know how it went with them. This is also true of many people today. Every human being is one destiny, one life. Like other protected Northmen on the run, we have a duty to protect those who come here. We humans are pretty similar, we are driven by the same fear and the same lengths. For our own part, until the end of the 1960s and early 1970s, we are going to go all the way to our own time, before the migration figures to Norway start to systematically exceed the emigration figures. Norway had become a welfare society, and we had the necessary labour force now. The largest immigration into Norway remains a labour force. As a good number two, family immigration comes, then people who are on the run -- about as many who come here to take education. The difference between the latter two groups is that the number coming here to take education is relatively stable, while the number coming here because they're fleeing is going on waves. And there are waves for many reasons. The most important is wars and conflicts in other countries and in other parts of the world. This will increase the number of asylum seekers to Europe and Norway. Then there is someone who is trying to get out of poverty and misery, in the same way that the nordics previously did. Climate refugees have become a new concept in our days. Others come with dishonest purposes and try to camouflage international crime under the cover of being asylum seekers. Some go illegally into the country and are not registered anywhere. Others disappear from reception without knowing where they are. Some are minor asylum seekers and come here alone. Some are victims of cynical traffickers and gross exploitation, both economically and in other ways. We can't help everyone, even if we wanted to. Our refugee and migration policy is determined by the Norwegian authorities, based on our international obligations to care for people in need. The last thing is it's important to hold on to. In the communication we are discussing today, it is clear that the overall objective of the government is a socially decent and managed immigration and a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policy. There's been an overall committee behind it. It is important to preserve the legitimacy of the asylum institution that those who become really need protection. It is equally important that those who do not need such protection be returned as soon as possible. Firstly, it helps to reduce the arrival of so-called groundless asylum seekers, but secondly – and most importantly – it helps us to use more resources and give better reception to those who really need it, to deal with matters more quickly, to improve the integration of new citizens. And last but not least, it helps us to be able to increase the number of quota refugees to Norway – those who do not want them, and who spend year after year in refugee camps in far poorer countries than the Europeans. Of all the world’s more than 40 million refugees, most are in neighbouring countries or internally displaced persons in their own countries. Sometimes in the Norwegian debate one may get the impression that most people come to Europe and Norway, but that is not the case. The message we are handling today addresses a relatively small proportion of the world's refugee problem, and it is important to stick to those proportions. That being said, the number of asylum seekers in Europe is raging. Which European countries receive the most applicants are also in waves. Compared to our population, there is a relatively large proportion of asylum seekers in Europe who for periods apply to Norway and stay here. The government has already put in place a number of measures to limit access by applicants without protection requirements. They're now starting to work. At the same time, we see countries within the EU's external borders, such as the United States and Japan. Greece, is facing even greater challenges than we do. The financial crisis has helped to make the situation worse. Dublin cooperation states that the first country to which an asylum seeker comes is responsible for examining, refusing or granting asylum applications. However, for a period earlier, the foreign student has stopped returning to Greece. The EU has opened a formal case to investigate whether Greece is violating its international obligations towards people who need and have the right to protection. So it is obvious that there is a need for closer cooperation in Europe to meet the challenges we face in the field of refugee and migration. Once again, it is important to bear in mind that those who benefit most from European harmonisation and coordination are the people who need our protection. European minimum standards shall follow international conventions. It will increase legal certainty for those who need it, and a minimum standard is precisely what it sounds like – a minimum standard, which does not limit our freedom to adopt their own higher national standards. Those who are going to have the biggest disadvantages of harmonisation in Europe after their intentions are the traffickers, the criminals and the people who live here. The government's asylum policy is sometimes under fire from all sides. Some believe that the government is leading a liberal policy. They are heard first and foremost when asylum figures rise, no matter what the cause of the increase. Then it is those who think the policy is too strict. They are heard in particular when the applicant figures go down and returns increase, as we have seen since the middle of last year, after actions started to work. In that picture, perhaps the most eye-catching aspect of this communication is the cross-political consensus on the main actions. A total of 22 proposals for priority actions were launched. There will be a completely new implementation plan in the foreign field, more effective identification, harmonisation of rules and practices in the EU/EEA, better sharing of responsibilities between Dublin countries – which means that we are also willing to take greater responsibility – linking to the new European Support Office, networking, cooperation on quota refugees, measures in countries of origin, regional protection programmes, funds for readmission agreements, returns, cooperation on the financing of the monitoring of the Schengen external borders, visa cooperation, common entry and exit systems and IT solutions, information exchange – and last but not least, a new action plan against trafficking in human beings is announced in 2010. Others will address some of the measures a little later in the debate. The Committee, for its part, has prepared the matter thoroughly, both by travelling to Brussels for up-to-date information and by consulting the European Parliament. All the hearing bodies support the harmonisation and coordination of European refugee and asylum policy, although they differ in their views on how liberal minimum standards in the EU should be and to what extent Norway should have national standards in addition. There have also been concrete proposals on individual themes that Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss on later occasions. As mentioned above, the consensus in this case is great. It was originally promoted only four different proposals, plus one that has come now, completely at ease. Otherwise, it's a cross-political consensus. I assume that the respective proposers themselves actively promote the proposals in the matter, and should therefore only make a small comment to one of them. It concerns proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, which addresses the issue of a more uniform visa practice at Norwegian foreign stations. The majority ask the proposers to consider converting this into a transmission proposal. In the end, I would just like to repeat briefly that this communication refers to cooperation in Europe on common minimum standards. It will be primarily an advantage for those who have a right to our protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1569	Report. St. 9 is a growth message that in many ways represents the manifestation of what has been a costly adult education for taxpayers when it comes to the party SV. Throughout the previous ageing period, there was an approach to asylum policy such as Norway could pursue its own policies in this area without taking into account the countries around us, without taking into account the constraints that occurred in other countries in Europe, while Norway made a change in policy that went in the liberalising direction. I would like to mention three areas that are very important in this context. Firstly, stop in return, after Dublin cooperation, to Greece. Secondly, making it easier for single, minor asylum seekers to stay in Norway. Thirdly, exasperation, as I think I would call it, by setting up return agreements, especially in relation to Iraq. We see a very clear context – when Sweden has a decline in their asylum figures due to their having established a return agreement with Iraq, it falls very well with the dramatic upsurge we experienced in Norway. All of this, while there were unclear signals, especially from the government party SV, contributed to Norway’s having the highest rate of asylum growth in the world at some point. Norway was among the countries in Europe which received most asylum seekers, calculated per capita. Together with Malta, Norway was in a special position — this is because it was not taken into account that asylum seekers are actually seeking the least resistance, i.e. trying to apply for asylum in those countries where it is assumed that there is the best opportunity to stay, but also where compilations of the rest of the legislation – especially in the area of family immigration and welfare benefits – help to make an active choice. Norway was by then clearly the most attractive country in Europe. That confirms the numbers. Report. St. 9 is about the fact that you have understood it. Even SV, who is reluctant to join the other committee in this big message, is aware that we in Norway cannot pursue an asylum policy independently of the other country around us. It's just so sad that you had to go through the huge growth, with all that it has caused to the costs of Norwegian taxpayers, and not least the creation of reception that is now shut down again, and all the noise that has been in the field of asylum. People who are actually entitled to stay in Norway have also been hit, and have been given much longer waiting time while the application has been treated. But of course, it's never too late to turn around. In this context, the Progress Party will praise the State Council of Storberget because he is now trying to clear up some of the misdemeanors committed by his predecessors, especially Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Dag Terje Andersen, who in this field did not do enough to make Norway appear tougher in relation to countries around us in Europe. We note that asylum figures have fallen by 44 pst. as far as this year compared to last year, which was then a top level. Although we can see that, I don't think you should allow yourself to boast about it. To put it a little funny: it'll be a little bit like British Petroleum would expect to boast if they can clean up the oil spills in the Gulf of Mexico, if this government were to expect to boast of the decline we've seen in the asylum figures lately. For this problem is just created by the sitting government. It was just to be lacking that this government is not trying to clean up after itself. It is also a manifestation of this big message – that you are trying to clean up. Although I understand that the Council of State and the government have understood this, the comments from the red-green parties crack very much in this area. It almost seems a bit schizophrenic, because on the one hand it is said that there is a connection between the policy being pursued and the influx of asylum we experience, but in other areas of the setting, the very opposite is said. I have to say, on behalf of the Progress Party, that we are at least happy to want – and there are three key points – to harmonise the legislation in Europe, to seek cooperation and to coordinate it politically in a European perspective. This is absolutely necessary if we are not to again experience a dramatic rise in the influx of asylum to Norway. That is why the Progress Party is also behind the headline in the big message, because we believe it is absolutely necessary to see this in a European perspective. Then there is someone who says — and especially SV clings to this straw straw — that Norway should influence the other countries in Europe to become a little more liberal, and that they should not be so strict. I ask the question: if Norway is to harmonise its rules with the EU and EU countries in this area, it is unlikely that the EU will approach Norway. Norway is clearly going to approach the EU and also pursue a more stringent asylum policy. It's very good, but I see that you try to sell this into – and especially EN – as if you're going to be able to make the EU change its course in asylum policy. There is evidence of a naivety that is almost limitless, while obviously the political climate has not been addressed in these very issues in the rest of Europe. I also believe that a context needs to be seen here, not only in relation to asylum policy and the rules underpinning it, but also in relation to other policy areas which are taking action, and especially in relation to family immigration policy, which Denmark has clearly demonstrated. By tightening up family immigration policies, asylum figures have fallen. Norwegian public services and whether the Norwegian welfare state is seen as a source of asylum seekers and immigrants coming to Norway is also a very important element for people who choose to apply for it. And you also have to take that into account. In reality, we're facing a choice in terms of the long lines. Either we need to tighten up much more on immigration policy, asylum policy and family immigration policy, or we need to make profound changes in the Norwegian welfare state. For the combination of high levels of immigration and noise-related economic systems, total sustainability is lacking in the long term. This is the reality we are facing. There are a lot of economists, in fact, even the NHO in their hearing opinion, although they express themselves a little bit more cautiously, pointing at this moment. It is difficult to combine high levels of immigration with harsh welfare systems. Then there is a question of seeing this in context and soon waking up and thinking about the long term in relation to the policy pursued in this area. For as the situation is today, there is a total lack of sustainability. Although European cooperation is now being developed and tightened up a little more in the field of asylum, perhaps also in the area of family reunification – what I know – it is still not enough to meet the long-term challenges facing Norway as a nation. Even if asylum figures go down, there are things here that are a little alarming. If you've now gotten the numbers down to 44 pst. reduction in relation to last year, the government is doing other steps again that I fear in the long term will lead to an increase in the influx of asylum. One thing is stopped in return to Mogadishu, another is all the noise around whether to stop the return from Dublin cooperation to Greece, and in particular to have the UDI take over part of the tasks to PU. There are many challenges ahead, and the government is obviously missing the long lines. I would like to mention our proposal, which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1595	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1598	It must be a great day for the Council of State Storberget to get praise from the Advancement Party, and now he will get praise from the Right too. After all, it must warm the Minister of Justice that there is such a cross-political uprising about this policy that we are now putting forward in order to approximate European refugee and migration policies. The right has asked for this big message for a long time. A few years ago, it was a co-agreement that agreed that it was time to get a message about the long lines of Norwegian migration and refugee policy in relation to what is happening in Europe. Norway must coordinate its policy in this area with the rest of Europe. The enlargement of the EU to 27 Member States has resulted in more countries now bound by EU legislation, areas where Norway does not participate in cooperation, such as the Common European Asylum Policy. Furthermore, EU enlargement has led to the expansion of the Schengen area, thus cooperating with several countries on the control of external borders. This has made it even more important for the Norwegian authorities to have harmonised practices with the other European countries in the field of refugee and migration. Very many of the world’s migrants – 10 to 15 p.m. – do not have legal residence in the country in which they are located. Like the objective of limiting the number of asylum seekers without protection requirements, it is an objective to limit cases of illegal immigration. Perhaps more difficult access to work and more stringent border controls in the EU and Schengen have so far led to a marked decrease in registered cases. In addition to the desire for closer cooperation in Europe, which is the aim of this Communication, Norway must also cooperate on refugee and migration issues at global level. The aim is to have a coordinated policy in Europe that does not contribute to false hopes of staying in Norway if rejected in other countries. A predictable system in which a fair, humane and predictable policy can be expected will be in everyone's interest. Real asylum seekers will be treated more quickly, they will be offered follow-up more quickly and will be able to start a new life more quickly in a new country. There is a great potential for development in migration. Europe needs a labour force reserve – Norway needs it at least in the coming period. But then it must be people who come to Norway either as real asylum seekers or as migrant workers. I hope that once we have dealt with this big message, and the government is starting to follow up on the measures, there may also be more focus on other aspects of migration policy than on asylum, namely labour immigration, Norwegian visa policy and some other things that get completely out of hand in that debate. Very many come to Norway – not as asylum seekers, but, as Lise Christoffersen also said in his post, either as students or as work immigrants, etc. This is also an important part of the policy that needs to be taken into account. The migration is positive from the right-hand side. We think it creates a lot of positive. Migration policy, trade policy, development policy and aid policy can be seen in a positive context. Voluntary migration and development are interrelated. Both the country of origin and the country of destination will in most cases be economically viable with controlled migration. Much of the migration in the world is out of control, and also for Europe, migratory flows have become a major challenge. Very many people from Africa and other parts of the world want to create a new life in Europe. The integration pressure is strong. Although Europe wants to control immigration flows, many people are able to avoid the control of entry. Criminals organise illegal transport, and many people are willing to sacrifice everything they have to cross borders. Many have lost their lives on their way across the Mediterranean or on their way to the Canary Islands and towards Europe. Negative aspects that accompany this illegal migration include: slave-like pay and employment relationships, sex trafficking, trafficking in human beings and organised crime. Many illegal immigrants are exploited, subjected to abuse and human rights violations by greedy employers. In the fight against trafficking in human beings, it is important that victims be identified. Ideal and non-governmental organisations play an important role here. In Oslo today, the Church's City Mission and the PRO-Center primarily identify the victims. This is because they go out in the streets and build trust over time. It is important to focus on increasing the identification of victims in Norway. The best way to do that is to maintain and strengthen the relief measures that exist today, and I show in this regard the proposal that the Christian People's Party and the Right are promoting today. Migrating flows go on waves and are naturally characterized by war, starvation disasters, unrest and distress. However, as long as Norway has pursued its own asylum policy without anchor in European cooperation, we have experienced enormous fluctuations in the influx of asylum to Norway. The signals sent by the authorities, especially the government's signals, have a major impact on the influx of asylum. During the first years of the government of Stoltenberg II, the conflicting opinions of the government parties came. This culminated in the government having to tighten its own policies. So in that context, the government party went out and took this one in the government. This continued to signal a lack of firmness, which was quickly perceived by potential asylum seekers. In 2009 — after the SV had taken their pick-up — Norway experienced a sharp increase in the number of asylum applications. The government and the Minister of Justice have now tightened their grip, for example: by repatriation of asylum-seekers without legal residence and others who have received final rejection of their asylum-seekers. This helps to discourage groundless asylum seekers from coming and seeking residence in Norway. Such a policy – such a clear policy – clearly supports the Right. Although Norway does not differ significantly from other Nordic countries, and also, for example, from other Nordic countries. The Netherlands and the United Kingdom in their refugee and asylum policies do not in any way confirm the thesis that these differences can be rejected as an important explanation for the large asylum arrivals in Norway in 2008 and 2009. On the contrary, I think it shows that government signals – small statements, confusion – help to open the locks to Norway with which no one has served. There are many things happening in the EU in this area. It is very positive to be able to follow up on the Stockholm programme adopted by the EU. It is a fundamental and, of course, a prerequisite for the Right that all asylum seekers are entitled to individual treatment of their asylum applications. However, some of the point of European cooperation in this area is also to share the burden and help countries that are struggling to meet their obligations. The new EU Stockholm Programme – the five-year programme for the field of justice and home affairs – emphasises the need to continue working on developing responsibilities sharing mechanisms. The solution currently being adopted by the EU is the creation of four funds in different areas, including: The External Borders Fund defined as Schengen-relevant. An association agreement on Norwegian participation in the fund has been negotiated. It is important that Norway actively intervenes, contributes positively and also contributes to helping, for example: Greece, which is currently struggling with a poor economy, a great influx of asylum seekers and subsequently poor conditions for asylum seekers. Instead of abandoning Dublin cooperation or suspending Greece, some of which are mentioned, Norway and other European countries should contribute to enabling Greece to meet its commitments. Now that the number of asylum seekers seems to be falling sharply, I think the government should consider increasing the number of quota refugees from 1200 to 1500. This is something there is a broad consensus about on Stortinget. I think it is necessary now to give a handshake to the most difficult refugees, namely the quota refugees. In the future, Norway will have to make active use of its ability to influence where possible in the EU system. We must also make use of the opportunity to learn from the good experience of other EU countries in various areas of asylum policy, and demonstrate that we are actually part of the Common European by being loyal to the decisions taken by the EU in areas that may be controversial in Norway. That's part of the price of cooperating, but I think that's necessary. Finally, I would like to say a little about something that is not so relevant to the exact asylum policy, namely the visa policy. I heard that the case rapporteur from the Workers' Party wanted to have the proposal that the Right and Christian People's Party is promoting on visa policy. If that means that the government and government parties actually want to go into this in a non-prejudiced and positive way – I see that the committee leader is nodding – we will, of course, comply with that recommendation. This was a matter we raised two years ago in Stortinget. This has not happened very much, but that relatives of people living in Norway have problems getting visas to this country because they come from countries where there is a great danger that they will seek asylum, I think is too poor and a little individual treatment of visa applications. I hope we can sort this out, so that Norway becomes an inclusive country, but also a country that accepts tourists in the same way that we want to be received in other countries. I will address the proposals on which the Right is a co-rapporteur, and at the same time I will inform you that the Right will support the proposal of the Progress Party, which is on the table today, to clarify the role of the UDI with the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1642	The representative of Trond Helleland then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1645	We're moving a lot more than before. There's something all of us in this room take for granted. Even I have a little sister who married a textist, another who has emigrated to Denmark – not yet married properly – and got a house with a Danish. Our international leader in SV was an Iranian who came here in the 1980s and was given residence as a political refugee, and a very good friend of mine, who was in the district government of Oslo SV, were Somalis who came together with their parents as refugees. We are migrants each in our own way, and each in our own way we are all influenced by the legislation we create for what kind of opportunities people have to move. There are different motives, and a lot of those motives are legitimate, but it's not like all motives are equally accepted. That's the way it is. It's politics. I think it is important when we discuss the message that has been made, and that we are discussing today, to see things in a bigger perspective than what is often done, and that, in my view, is done to a small extent by the representatives of the right-hand side. We're discussing refugees. Those present at the UDI Spring Conference yesterday – at the entire conference – know that the total number of refugees in the world is between 41 million and 42 million if you bring with you the internally displaced. At that time, about 280,000 people who come to Europe each year become small-minded in the broad sense. When we also know at the same time that there are about 400,000 border guards at the borders of Europe, we see that there are two and a half border guards per asylum seeker coming to Europe. When we talk about the large division of responsibilities in the world, the number of 280,000 – and some of them stay in Europe – pales compared to the number of refugees. If we think of one of the world's largest refugee camps in Kenya, it's the poorest countries in the world that take the greatest part of the responsibility for fulfilling human rights and the right to life and the right to a secure opportunity that is actually fundamental to the Refugee Convention. We're doing far too little of that right a job to fulfill. The majority want it to be an important job for us, but I do hear the language of Per-Willy Amundsen, who talks about all the misappropriations that previous governments have done, and of Greece, who is talking about ‘opening the locks’ to Norway. So when we're talking about a disappearing small proportion of the world's refugees, I really think we should take this in a completely different way from what we're doing today. The message points very clearly in a direction ahead, where we will be more committed to European cooperation. The reason why this is important is that we see that Norwegian asylum and refugee policy and Norwegian asylum and refugee debate are very much influenced by what is happening in the countries around us. For the red-green government, it is clear that the objective of that commitment is to participate and contribute to raising standards in Europe. We have the choice of putting ourselves at the level we can imagine that it is in Norway and Sweden today when it comes to caring for refugees, or at the level it is at in Greece today. So we can ask: does the Advancement Party want us to approach the level of Greece, or does the Advancement Party want Greece to approach our level? For the Red-Green Government, the answer is clear: we want to ensure that all those countries that are not at present at a decent level and do not fulfil the EU's obligations under directives and the Refugee Convention will reach a level that is decent and in line with the Refugee Convention. In this context, all countries have an independent responsibility as parties to the Convention. When I hear Per-Willy Amundsen talking, I would sometimes wish – and it is not so rare – that Per-Willy Amundsen was not born a Norwegian, but born Somali and grew up in Somalia. Then he could have experienced what it would be like to come as a refugee to Norway, and see what it is like to be exposed to the suspicion in the rest of Europe when you apply. Then he would realize that what we're really talking about -- when we're talking about having a real, decent and good refugee policy, which we want to have for the whole of Europe -- is to maintain the basic values that we think we stand for here in Norway, the value of human dignity and human rights. I would like to see Per-Willy Amundsen get that experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1667	We also consider it important to work towards harmonisation with Europe on refugee and migration policy. At the same time, Norwegian refugee and migration policies shall be determined by the Norwegian authorities, based on national premises and be consistent with Norway’s international obligations and agreements. It's important to clarify. This means, among other things: harmonisation with Europe must not restrict our freedom to adopt national standards beyond the minimum standards in force at all times in Europe. In order to avoid experiencing a downward spiral across Europe with regard to asylum seekers and refugees' rights, we in the Norwegian authorities should contribute to a high level of responsibility and standards on the agenda, so that harmonisation leads to a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policies across Europe. The message has a strong focus on contractions and returns. If you were to go so far as to call the message visionary, it should take the world's refugee situation more seriously. It is, as the representative Heikki Holmås said, over 40 million people wandering around the world. 60 pst. of which they are fleeing from their own country. Norway should then be at the forefront of finding global solutions to this huge challenge. In this regard, the Christian People's Party raised the question of climate refugees who do not meet today's criteria for being considered refugees. Although this is not discussed in detail in the Communication, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the importance of Norwegian participation and participation in the international forums where this is discussed. We therefore welcome the appropriate presentation by the government of Norway’s work and role in this field. It is important to focus on effective return, both forced and voluntary, as well as an effective treatment system. In recent times, however, we have witnessed a worrying development in which returns are made in violation of UN recommendations. Forced return of Iraqis to Baghdad and other provinces of Central Iraq in December 2010 and forced return to Greece and Somalia are examples of this. We support Norway as part of Dublin II cooperation. However, I am nevertheless critical of aspects of Norway's practice of legislation when, for example. refer to return to Greece. I do not understand the government's assessment that in Greece there will be a fair and fair treatment of their asylum application. Greece does not have a functioning treatment system which respects the rights of asylum seekers. When we discuss refugee and migration policies in a European perspective, the focus on trafficking in human beings and trafficking is very important. The motivation behind the work against human smuggling must primarily be to help people in deep distress and to get punishable cynical backers. The criminalisation of human smuggling must not be used as an excuse or a measure to ensure a most restrictive refugee policy. This could lead to unfortunate developments if the fight against crime starts to look at this group of people who were formerly ‘refugees’, such as ‘undocumented, illegal and criminal’. In the case of trafficking in human beings, the government is lagging behind in setting up a new action plan. The number of victims of trafficking in human beings is increasing in Norway. Recent cases of trafficking in human beings have also been identified in relation to au pair activities, beggaring, etc. The rise in the problem may indicate that it is lucrative for the backers to come to Norway and carry on this activity. It is very important that the victims be adequately protected if they choose to report their backers. Today many are sent out of the country afterwards. Then they are in real danger of being represals from the rear and of being ‘re-traffic’. I also believe that the reflection period must give more content, such as: psychological assistance as needed and Norwegian courses for all, and it should be easier to have permanent stays in Norway for victims of trafficking in human beings. The Christian People's Party also calls for an action plan specifically aimed at children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. In particular, minor asylum seekers are vulnerable to these people. There is reason to believe that several of the hundreds of children who have disappeared from the reception of asylum have been victims of trafficking in human beings, without adequate follow-up from the police. That's why we don't know where they're going. Few children are identified as victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway. It's probably not because they don't exist, but because it's hard to detect. I am referring here to the proposals we have made on this matter. I would also like to inform you that we support the proposal of the Progress Party, which has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1688	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1691	What lies at the bottom of everything we do is that the policy pursued in this field should be marked by humanism, solidarity and legal certainty. It is my opinion that the 22 measures outlined in this big message help to raise the level of these three sizes. It's people we're discussing, not oil spills. So it is the government's view that this message shows just how vital it is to get good hands on this political area, but also to bring in more humanism, legal certainty and solidarity, to be able to act together, especially with countries in Europe. Norway and Europe face common challenges, including: in the context of extensive illegal immigration and many asylum seekers. The government believes that there is a need for clearer and more committed European cooperation to meet these challenges. Therefore, in the months I have been responsible for this field, I have strongly stressed that this work and this message should be sent quickly to Stortinget. In this way I also thank my glittering office for the job. A further development of the Common European Asylum System is required in order to achieve balance and greater predictability in the area of migration in Europe. The EU will become an increasingly important partner for Norway in the field of refugee and migration. Norway and the Norwegian authorities are therefore also prioritising and actively participating in the further development of, among others, Norway and Norway. The Schengen and Dublin acquis An example of our desire to continue is that we are now actively working – and as presented in the message – to establish a link with the European Asylum Support Office in the field of asylum, the European Asylum Support Office, EASO. As the Committee refers to in the setting of the message, participating in European cooperation in the field will not limit the possibility of having national standards higher than the minimum standards. I would also like to point out a particularly important area, which has been affected by many: the resettlement of refugees. In cooperation with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, this is a priority part of the Norwegian refugee and migration policy. I mean very much that it's about bringing more humanism into the way we use the total resources in this area. The government therefore wants to support the efforts of several European countries to offer resettlement and is in favour of initiatives to develop a common EU resettlement policy. Norway can, with its many years of experience as a resettlement country, among other things. contribute to the transfer of competence. Those applying for protection in Norway and in need of it will receive it. Those who do not have the grounds for staying in Norway shall not be granted a residence permit. Therefore, effective and rapid treatment is the most humane, both for those who are allowed to stay and for those who have to leave the country. The government wants to limit the number of people applying for protection without having to do so, and so far we see a dramatic decrease in the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. However, it is important, as the representative of Greece also pointed out, that we are now perhaps beginning to discuss other sizes in this political field than just the speech of the figures. It is largely about how we can take care of those who are going to stay in Norway. It is about further developing the return arrangements we have in cooperation with other countries, in cooperation with Frontex. It's also very much about how we can deal with things like this. the activity of illegal asylum seekers or groundless asylum seekers in Norway when they go waiting for a decision and when a few of them commit criminal acts. I would like to point out that it is also important that we now get the focus on the clear call for voluntary return – preferably in cooperation with the IOM – and that the figures now put on the table show that increased pressure on the return work not only contributes to more work for the police and forced returns, but also to more use of good voluntary return arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1711	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1714	The decline in asylum figures that we have observed in recent months is due to many factors. Forced and increased use of return is obviously one of them, but I want to say that the signals you gave in Soria Moria II, which I stand with a chapter of here, were also important. Signal policy – what is sent out of signals to the world around it – is of great importance for the influx of asylum seekers and for the policy that is expected. There's one point in Soria Moria II that I want to quote, and that's the following: ‘introduce a general requirement for four years’ work — and or training as a condition for family establishment’ This is a very important point in dealing with family immigration policy, which will also limit the arrival of asylum seekers. Now there is so much doubt about this policy – there have been several presentations in the media – given that this has been cancelled, thanks to SV. Can the Council of State confirm or confirm whether the four-year rule will be submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1725	When I said yes to take on the task of handling this field, I also did so in confidence that the points outlined in the Soria Moria statement – and the platform to which it is now referred – will be implemented. So I would also add that it is difficult to say something about what are real reasons why the numbers are going down, and that we all have to exercise some caution in drawing quick conclusions to what is the reason why the numbers are going down, and not least be prepared for whatever kind of regime we have in this political area, the numbers may fluctuate. Because there are external circumstances at the bottom of why people travel in flight, and that's what history has taught us. Changing governments with changing practices have experienced shifts in numbers. So I have to say it's good to see that you get a good hand on this field, and that we have the numbers we now have. At the same time, we should be prepared that these are not sizes that are given once and for all. It is characterised by many causes, and it can fluctuate up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1732	The last is very correct, because you still have a little to go on if you go down to the normal level – if we can call it that – that existed on the day this government joined in 2005. At that time, we had much lower asylum rates, and we need to experience a much greater decline in the asylum flow to Norway before we are at the level we observed in 2005 and 2006. I want to go back to what I said in my speech, that the message gives the impression – and so does the Council of State on different occasions, and especially SV – that this is so much about Norway changing EU policies as about the EU changing Norway’s policy in this area. What is the Council of State's assessment of this? Does the Council of State really think that Norway is going to relocate the EU's asylum policy? Or is it Norway that, if we are to harmonise with the European Union, we must go in a sharper direction in the field of asylum policy? What is the Council of State's assessment of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1739	I see that this picture is not as clear as the Per-Willy Amundsen representative is trying to draw, that as soon as we talk about EU policy, it is just tightening up. I feel that there are many Member States in Europe that we also meet – we have good dialogue, among other things. with the Nordic Member States – which are concerned with several shades in this picture. In fact, I believe that Norway can play an important role by being involved, but at the same time take initiatives in important areas. I mentioned resettlement in my post, which is important for Norway, and where I think we actually have something to contribute, but which cannot be seen as a narrowing-down measure. With regard to a new generation Dublin agreement, the use of the EEA funding mechanism into this, I am convinced that Norway can really prove to be an important role. And it is clear that this is true in other areas, which have also been discussed by several representatives. When you are part of a community, you also need to take other types of measures that you would not necessarily have preferred. But I have helped bring forward this big message because I think it is important that Norway also has ambitions in the European area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1746	I am very pleased that the Grand Mountains Council of States is so keen on the importance of Schengen cooperation and Frontex. Putting in place return agreements and having an effective external border control is very important. Then I was a little surprised when the government parties were going to write their comments on this matter. With regard to this important area, which the Council of States so strongly emphasises, the Government Parties take note of ‘Norwegian obligations following the Cooperation Agreement relating to Schengen cooperation’. That's all the government parties were able to express about it. It shows, for one who tries to be a criminologist, that here SV has tried to modify as much as possible. But I can assure the Council of State that he has full support from the Right, and I also believe from the Advancement Party, to tighten in and run a tough line when it comes to this. What follow-up actions will the Stortinge be involved in with regard to Schengen cooperation and Frontex in the coming days? And how many return agreements have Norway put in place now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1753	These were many issues. I would also like to stress the importance of close cooperation with Schengen. As far as Frontex is concerned, we have seen in the last six months how important it is to us in two aspects, first the External Borders Fund. I believe that it has to be one of the keys to solve the situation, among other things. in Greece. If we are really going to be able to help many people and bring more humanism into the streets of Athens, I believe that the External Borders Fund, the EEA funding mechanism and some other things are very important. The returns that go, we have in many respects cooperated with Frontex on. We've chartered planes with Frontex and some other countries, which show how important it is to bring about effective handling. I can't get enough emphasis on how crucial it is for us that we are close. The majority will be able to submit several cases relating to both Schengen and Frontex, whether on the legislative side or on the budgetary side. It's known to the Storting in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1766	It's very positive to hear. Then I also want to go a little further into the 22 workspaces that are listed in the Storing Message. There are very many of the areas that are useful, I think, to anchor politically also in the Storting. What I'm really asking is, does the Council have a plan for how he will now proceed with these 22 areas? Will the Storting be presented matters on each one of them, or will they come puly? This may be useful to know in relation to how we can be involved by Stortinget and influence the Norwegian migration and refugee policy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1773	I just want to reiterate that we are taking that invitation very seriously, because I believe that one of the purposes of presenting this message is that it should move the political debate in this area to become something more than counting the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. If we just do that, we're going to lose. I believe that much of the solution to the common challenges we are facing lies in these 22 points. We shall endeavour to be clear to the Storting and bring it forward, so that we may have a public debate on it. I believe that this is what is part of the purpose that we have also written the message. Something is budget, of course, but something can be regulatory changes. In the implementation plan now being drawn up, there will also be points that could be relevant to the Storting, for the purposes of either law or budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1780	The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has strongly warned against sending Dublin refugees back to Greece, and we know the arguments. Greece is not in a position to take care of refugees in a good and legal way. Last night, at UDI's spring seminar, which is also referred to in our country and the class struggle today, jusprofessor James C. Hathaway, one of the world's foremost experts on asylum lighting, underlines the very same thing. What kind of arguments is the Minister of Justice making when he chooses to face the opposite view, that it's okay to send people back to Greece?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1785	It's good that we're given the opportunity to correct the misunderstanding that we think it's quite okay to have a lot of refugees back to Greece. First, who is making the decision? That's what I think is important. So we have a system in Norway where UDI and UNE are assessing the conditions. It is clear that individual assessments, including returns, should be made under the Dublin Agreement. That's what I'm doing. So far, we have had no reason to dispute the assessments made by the professional bodies in this way. But then we see that, among other things, in the case of single minor asylum seekers, and also other groups which may have special needs, do not do so. It's important to point out. I would also like to say that Norway is one of the countries that really follows the UN High Commissioner very much, both in terms of the single decision issue, and also in terms of general policy. I mean, we're a good ally. But that does not mean that I think it would make asylum policy – I kept saying – even less politically important if we were to say that this was left to the High Commissioner to decide. We have a national responsibility to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1795	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1798	Today, we are dealing with Norwegian refugee and migration policies in a European perspective. At the same time, the world has approx. 16 million refugees. Norwegian refugee policy cannot be seen only in a national perspective. We need to see it in a European context, as the message goes on. Refugees and migrants have different backgrounds and different motives for coming to Norway. Some in this group are victims of trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is one of the most cynical forms of barbarism in the world. People are being tricked or forced into various forms of dealing with themselves. It may be related to begging, prostitution or drug sales. Common for this is coercion, involuntaryness and backers who run the business. The UN has characterised trafficking in human beings and human beings as the second most lucrative business in international organised crime, just shutting down arms trading. Furthermore, the United Nations states that trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is a prominent element both in international migration and in refugee situations. Combating this lucrative economic phenomenon requires international cooperation. The 2002 UN Convention against Transborder Organised Crime, also known as the Palermo Convention, aimed at improving international cooperation. In 2008, Norway ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, which entered into force that year. This Convention was even more focused on the rights of the victims than the Palermo Convention. Trafficking in human beings is a criminal activity affected by criminal law and must be combated. The government has had an action plan against trafficking in human beings, ‘Stop trafficking’ for 2006-2009. It is now under evaluation and the Ministry of Justice intends to present a new action plan during 2010. The previous action plan provided for a temporary residence permit, a so-called reflection period, of six months, where it is possible for the victims to cooperate with the police in the investigation of background workers. There are few reviews relating to such cases, which is in the nature of the case. It is important to disseminate information so that potential victims are made aware of their rights related to the reflection period and the Authority’s instructions to the UDI that victims of trafficking in human beings testifying to a criminal case against the rear, as a general rule, are entitled to a residence permit in Norway. This has now been included in a new foreign regulation, which is in force from 1 January 2010. I want to commend the government and the State Council of Storberget in particular for the work that has been done so far in this area, both by taking action against trafficking in human beings and, not least, by putting it on the political agenda. An example of the amount of money in these cases came yesterday, June 7, in the Day Revy. A Somali man said he had paid approx. 40,000 kroner for a human smuggler to come to Norway. This clearly demonstrates the economic aspect of such cases. Norway shall pursue a strict and fair asylum policy, an asylum policy which relates to the institution of asylum, where asylum-seekers shall have it, a policy which addresses the human sufferings that lie behind trafficking in human beings and which provides victims with a real opportunity to obtain humanitarian residence if they testify to cases against the backers and thus contribute to the detection of this unworthy crime. The large picture of migration shows that the world’s population is moving to countries far more than where they were born for several reasons. IOM figures show that over the last 20 years migration has increased by over 50 million people. Let's not just dwell on the negative sides of migration. Many apply to other countries and succeed. I am happy to, among other things, The Christian People's Party in the comments has focused on the human trade aspect. It is also the focus of government and the majority. It is good and important that this work continues in the government and that a message is provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1824	Let me first say that this is a very good debate, which should have taken place 10–15–20 years ago. I record an incredible number of good signals, not least from the Council of State, considering what to do within this field. I agree with the Council of State that this is not about oil spills, it is about people. In this way, it is not about whether Per-Willy Amundsen has grown up in Somalia or in Harstad. I know how tough it can be to grow up in Harstad, so it's not about it at all. In any case, I very much agree with the Council of State in his conclusion on the decline in asylum figures: it is not possible to draw any conclusions. Let's not be too quick to think that the numbers are going down now, and that we're going to succeed, because this has gone up and down for a long time. In fact, the peak year in Norwegian history in terms of asylum influx was 2001, as far as I remember, so this goes up and down. If, in fact, the intention of this big message and what has been achieved across the board is what was said by the case rapporteur, it is a common minimum standard we want. The rapporteur then says: it is primarily about something that will benefit them who have a real need for protection. If that's the goal, I think we're on a really good path. But at the same time, we can't put a lid on it, you have to be honest about what future immigration will look like. It is then clear that what was said by the representative Amundsen is an equally important debate, in relation to future immigration. Regardless of whether it is labour immigration, asylum immigration, refugee policy, family reunification, it has something to do with the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare model. Other countries have drawn conclusions. The NHO has done so in Norway. I note that at least the Danish National Bank has done so, where there are rather tough conclusions in terms of what will be sustainable in terms of Danish immigration policy in the future. It is very good that we now also focus – I note that it is good progress party policy – on using some means to help especially in the neighbourhoods, and that EEA funds are used to really help Greece on the road. When we talk about Greece, I would have liked to have seen that the same parties that are critical of Greece had the same critical objections to other countries in Europe that may have greater burdens on breaking human rights, etc., and that are tougher in that way. It brings me to what I should really take the floor, and it goes on to say that we also need to see a context in the structure in terms of UDI's, UNE's and the police's tasks. All of this has to be seen in a context. I registered yesterday in the lawn outside Stortinget that there were several depositors who made contributions and were very, very critical of the role of both UDI and UNEs and the police. Signals from these representatives – from the SV to the Workers' Party and the Left – were seen as UDI becoming a state in the state. I think it is important to include this context in the debate as well, and that is why the Progress Party has now promoted the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber. We ask for understanding from both the Council of State and the majority in this Chamber that it is necessary to see this in context, and we ask for a separate case concerning the processing of applications involving residence and work permits, citizenship and asylum matters, to the UDI. We believe that investigations now available are not good enough to see the consequences of shifting so much power to the UDI, in particular, measured up to the fact that part of immigration, especially in the field of asylum, is strongly linked to organised crime. The results of Sweden, which has this model, show that the police have lost a lot of control and overview of organised crime. I also register a claim from the Police Joint Union – and of course the Council of State can answer that. It's rare I quote the Police Joint Union completely verbally, but I'll do that now: ‘PF wishes to clarify that neither the professional organisations nor the professional community concerned are informed or involved in the process at any time in this investigation.’;» It is serious that they have not been involved in the process at all. If that's right, it should in itself lead to a separate case and a separate process towards the autumn in order to adopt better coordination between the UDI and the police in immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1848	The representative Amundsen's comparison of people in flight with oil spills is grotesque, and I'm glad Per Sandberg just made it clear that the debate is not about oil spills, but about people. A better picture of Europe's challenge in refugee and migration policy is crowded boats with people crossing the Mediterranean with their lives. The main message in St.meld. No 9 is that common European challenges need to be addressed jointly. If each country is to act on its own, the solution will be easy to shift responsibility on its neighbours. In the last ten years, 4 million asylum seekers have come to Europe. Some flee from persecution, others from poverty and war. Everyone has an understandable desire for a better future. The starting point of the Labour Party is that Norway should both contribute to combating the causes of people’s need to flee and take our share of responsibility for the world’s refugees. Everyone in need of protection will get it. At the same time, persons whose asylum application is refused must return to their country of origin as soon as possible. It is important both for the individual and for the legitimacy of the asylum institution that they start their life as quickly as possible. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the government's return policy is producing results. In 2009, 4,359 persons returned without a legal stay in Norway. That's the highest number since 2004. The notification points to three key elements in the development of European return policy: common standards and procedures, practical cooperation and agreements with countries of origin on return. When the Municipal and Administrative Committee was in Brussels in April, we met representatives of the UN Commissioner for Refugees and the European Refugee Council, ECRE, who both wanted closer European cooperation, and considered it positive from a refugee perspective. The situation in Greece is mentioned in particular in the comments. The Social Democratic Government, led by Papandreou, is now clearing up after a bourgeois government that has distinguished itself by irresponsible deficit budgeting and borrowing. Because of its geographical location, Greece's first country of arrival in Europe is too many refugees. There is reason to be concerned about Greece’s ability to handle the large number of asylum seekers received every year. The European Commission has put in place a formal procedure to investigate compliance with EU standards in the handling of asylum applications. However, the problems in Greece cannot be solved by Norway alone, but we can take the initiative to increase the solidarity of burden-sharing in Europe. It has given its support to all parties, except the Advance Party. I would like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the Right, which in its remarks is commended by the government for its work in this area and both in form and content are constructive, unlike the Progress Party, which is today trying to reduce an important debate to a question of what SV has known or is not aware of, and believes that the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico is an appropriate picture of what a peaceful and rich country is experiencing when people come here to flee from war and poverty. The Progress Party also blames the government for the high number of asylum arrivals in the last two years, but will not give the same credit for the fact that the number of asylum arrivals is now falling. It's inconsistent. For the Workers' Party, it is not important that we agree on who has the credit for what, but it is important that we agree that Norway should comply with its international obligations, and it is important that we agree on what reality actually looks like. Under the Bondevik government, an average of 11,611 asylum seekers came to Norway each year, while under the current government the figure was 10,876. In both periods, the fluctuations have been significant. However, there is no doubt that the number is now falling. Yesterday, new figures came to show that the number of asylum applications has been reduced by 44 pst. from 2009 to 2010. It allows Norway to gradually accept a larger number of quota refugees. In our part of the world, the EU has a key role. Obliging European cooperation is necessary for many reasons, not least to ensure that all asylum seekers in Europe are treated in a fair and orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1874	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1877	The government’s overall objective for work in the field of refugee and immigration is, as it is mentioned, a socially sound and guided policy and a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of asylum and refugee policies. Then there is reason to remember that fortunately it is that of the 200 million people who have moved from their homeland, not everyone is seeking asylum, such as refugees from war, terror or hunger. An important area for migration is people who apply to other countries for work, and the vast majority of those who do so are trying to follow the laws and regulations that countries have designed to provide residence and work. To the extent required, they have tried to obtain the necessary authorisations in advance. Report. St. 9 for 2009–2010, which we are dealing with, emphasises and supports the policy on free movement within the EU, and through the EEA Agreement Norway has adhered to this principle. That is to say, we support the free movement of persons, which also includes the free movement of labour and freedom of establishment. But for the last decade we have witnessed the greatest migration of people in Europe since World War II. For Norwegian working life, it has meant rescue for thousands of jobs. Labour immigration was also clearly seen in the context of the overall migration policy through the Hague Programme in 2004. The EU has also agreed, through the Lisbon Strategy, on a strategy for employment and growth, where by 2010 it has set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. This side of the message is central, for the issue of labour immigration can be part of the solutions to the demographic challenges that exist. A Communication from the European Commission of the autumn 2006 referred to four specific features that characterise demographic developments in Europe. There is a low birth rate, there is an increasing proportion of older people in the population, there is a higher life expectancy, and there is an increasing net migration. Norway shares many of these challenges with the rest of Europe. In this context, it would be right to recall the Norwegian modern organisation of work. Employee organisations have fought hard for their professional rights. In the context of labour migration, we have had social dumping challenges. There can be no doubt that migrant workers will have the same wage and working conditions as the rest of the population. For the Workers' Party, this is a fundamental prerequisite. Finally, I would like to stress that labour migration is a good thing for both the individual and society. It allows individuals to apply where they can make the best use of their work skills, and it allows employers to search for skilled labour regardless of national borders. In total, this provides more efficient labour markets and higher value creation. Labour is the most important resource we have, and the most sovereign part of our national wealth. Therefore, labour immigration must also be an important part of migration policy, together with a proper policy in the field of asylum and refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1894	Norwegian political authorities determine Norwegian refugee and migration policies. It is based on national premises and shall comply with international conventions. This is an area that really requires cooperation and harmonisation in order to meet the challenges we face in the field of refugee and migration. EU policy developments in this area will affect Norway. Further development of EU legislation will lead to changes in the areas of action to which Norway is linked through the Schengen and Dublin cooperation. By Report. St. 9 for 2009–2010 will bring the government with 22 main priorities in the field of refugee and migration in order to meet the challenges in the future. What affects immigration to Norway is largely external circumstances such as war and conflict, and not least the policy pursued by our neighbouring countries. In our time there is no clear distinction between flight and migration. Europe is the goal of many of the world's migrants. Europe is facing increasing challenges on the basis of extensive illegal immigration and many asylum seekers. The Government considers that there is a need for clearer and more committed European coordination to meet the challenges. The EU will become an increasingly important partner for Norway in the field of refugee and migration. The Government assumes that entry and immigration into Norway shall be regulated and controlled in accordance with international obligations and agreements. The EU Agency for the Coordination of Control and Monitoring of External Borders, Frontex, has a significant role in limiting illegal border crossings in the EU/Schengen area. The Agency also coordinates the return of third-country nationals. This is an important effort to further develop cooperation in Frontex and for Norway to participate in several joint return operations in the future. The Government emphasises that Norway, through participation in the External Borders Fund, assists the countries responsible for external border control and visa issue on behalf of all Schengen co-operation countries. The projects financed by the Fund will contribute to improving the quality of external border control. This will benefit all Schengen countries. The government supports the establishment of an entry and exit system. Norway will contribute to the implementation of this system and an automated border control system. This will increase the effectiveness of border controls and prevent illegal residence, while respecting the fundamental rights of individuals, such as privacy. Finally, I would like to point out that further development of the common European asylum system in the EU is necessary in order to achieve balance and predictability in the area of migration in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1913	I'm going to try not to help prolong the debate. It is rare to read a big message and an setting that makes the degrees visible how dependent we have become on what is happening around us and with which we have no control. It's also rare to see how broad the recognition of this is. Moving across borders is a good thing for a lot of people when they want to do it voluntarily. We have had that opportunity in the Nordic region since the mid-1950s and in large parts of Europe over the last 15 years through the EEA Agreement. It's those who run away, which is the challenge, together with those who hang on and seek a better future, but without having the basis of a real need for protection. It is liberating how free this attitude is from normal immigration policy rhetoric. It relates to the real issues we face, such as: the fact that the number of applicants for Norway depends mainly on two factors: first, war, conflict and distress that drives people on the run, perhaps by cynical people who are in despair or hope; second, how strongly our handling of asylum cases differs from our neighbouring countries. Therefore, there is a broad consensus that the solution is to establish closer contractual cooperation with the EU in this area, in addition to what we do today through Dublin cooperation. 16 of the 22 actions listed in the Communication are about joining the EU. That is something we will certainly be allowed to do. The second part of the objective, namely that Norway should increase its influence on European asylum policy, is becoming more demanding. That influence will necessarily be limited in any case, as long as we do not want to be properly involved in this cooperation, despite the requirement of a unanimous comitology. The Christian People's Party points out in its own note that the communication should focus more on how international society handles the world's refugee situation, and to a lesser extent on how a single region in Europe should prevent access for people with or without the need for protection. Well, when the same party emphasizes several places that Norway is going to have the freedom to do things differently, even if we're going to coordinate our policies with our European neighbours, it says a lot about the challenges if we're going to go on the global level. It's not just here on the mountain that we doubt the formal right of self-determination, even when we realize the need for commitment cooperation. It is pointed out in a note that migration in the world is out of control. It has certainly never been under special control. In the 1800s, 900,000 Northmen emigrated from a population of two million people, not to mention what happened during the great migrations, if we go even further back.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1932	It concerns proposal No. 5. from the Progress Party, which I also understand has the support of several parties in the Chamber. I consider it appropriate to stress that in the case of organisational changes, which are the subject of the proposal, there is absolute reason to listen well and to be present also to a possible minority in order to meet the need for information and participation. It is, of course, a proposal that deals in substance with how we can manage to make the foreign administration more efficient and reduce the length of proceedings. Both in the case of the pure cases of residence and also in the case of asylum cases, there is work going on. I have no objection, rather, to a great willingness to contribute to the information also to the opposition in Stortinget about this, and I would like to invite you to dialogue about it. I am somewhat uncertain as to what form this might take towards Stortinget, but I would like to ask the proposers in this way to redefine the proposal for a transmission proposal, and then, at least from my point of view, it will be met with great goodwill.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1941	The wishes of the Council of State will be met by the proposers. It sounds like a very sensible approach to having this discussed more widely. But I also feel the need to draw myself out to clarify what I see as a bit of a wretched and misunderstanding of my comparisons. The representative Håkon Haugli tried to say it as if I, when I drew the comparison between British Petroleum and the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and that they did not deserve praise if they were able to clean up their own oil spills, compared to the fact that asylum seekers were going to be oil spills. That, of course, was not my point. My point was, and it still says, that once one has created a situation, as I perceive the sitting government has done, which caused us to have an explosive growth in the influx of asylum to Norway, then one cannot expect praise when trying to clear up the misconceptions that have been committed politically. That's what I believe you're trying to do now, not least through this big message. It was not my intention to compare asylum seekers with oil spills, but to say that there are expectations on the part of the Progress Party that when major political mistakes are made, as I believe the current government has done, one must also clean up that policy. I also worked on this area throughout the previous growing-up period. Then the debate on these issues was such that when I met Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who was responsible for the state council in this field, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, and later the day Terje Andersen, and discussed these matters, a relationship was denied. It was even denied that there was a link between the asylum policy and immigration policy on the one hand, and what is experienced in terms of asylum arrivals on the other hand – a reasonably astonishing debate. That is what I see in this position here, because now the government parties are saying in reality that yes, there is a link between the policy pursued on the one hand and the asylum seekers who come to Norway – and then also very many groundless asylum seekers, i.e. asylum seekers with no need for protection who abuse the asylum institution. So it has to be that you see a context right there. The government wouldn't do that in the last period. I think it's nice to see that you learn from it and clean it up now, because neither for asylum seekers who have a need for protection, nor for Norwegian society, is it appropriate to experience the kind of explosive growth we've experienced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1952	I do not feel that the Progress Party deserves the last word in this debate, and I therefore take the floor. Per-Willy Amundsen shows through his two posts here today what I think is a completely wrong approach to the whole question of a fair, humanist refugee policy, as Knut Storberget described it. Just take the review of people who come and apply for asylum. We have strict rules in Norway. There are strict rules in Europe to get asylum, and to say that all people who apply for asylum and who do not meet the requirements ‘abuse the institution of asylum’ are wrong. It's legal error, it's political error, and it's morally very wrong. There are many refugees from Afghanistan. More than half of the refugees who come to Norway come from countries that we discuss in other contexts in foreign policy presentations as difficult problem areas, such as Somalia, Eritrea, Iraq, Chechnya, Palestine, Afghanistan. From these countries, more than half of the refugees come. If you come from Afghanistan to Norway, from a war zone where bombs are bombed and where Norwegian soldiers die, and apply for asylum, then there is a strict requirement to stay. A good deal gets, but a good deal gets rejected, but they haven't abused the asylum institute. If you come from oppression and humiliation in Palestine and apply for asylum in Norway – if you had applied for asylum in Cyprus, you would probably have been given a good deal of stay, a good deal of it gets rejected, but you do not abuse the institution when applying. When you come from Somalia – about 90 pst. From there you are allowed to stay — and you are refused — you do not abuse the institution of asylum. That's the way to talk about people that I think is unworthy, because what you do is to talk about people who come from conflict areas, who have a legitimate right to apply for asylum, in a degrading way. Finally, I just want to say that Per-Willy Amundsen is talking all the time about one thing that's completely abnormal, or an abnormality -- call it whatever you want. This is the question of whether there is a normal state of affairs — a normal influx of asylum, as Per-Willy Amundsen says. If we take World War II, was the normal influx in 1941, in 1942, in 1947 or in 1948? If you take the Kosovo war and the bombing of Kosovo, was the normal flow to Norway the year before, was it at the peak when it came most, or was it the year after? The Bosnia-War, the Afghanistan-War, the Iraq-War – all these wars help make refugees in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1964	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1967	Once again SV, here at the representative Holmås, demonstrates why it is very little useful for Norway that the party SV sits in government and has a hand on the steering wheel in the design of Norwegian immigration policy. You are almost limitless in who you want to define as people you want to stay in Norway. On the basis of the definition that the representative Holmås has just taken, there are therefore no limits on whom to accept in this small country of Norway. There are hundreds of millions of people out there who could be claimed to go under the definition that Holmås uses. It is, however, with respect to reporting on the basis of national interests that it is completely impossible and undesirable to use that kind of policy. This would directly harm Norway as a nation. SV illustrates very well why they should not have their hands on the steering wheel of this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1974	The representative Heikki Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1977	Per-Willy Amundsen describes very, very well why it is a happiness for the country that the Progress Party does not control what should count as human dignity and human rights here in the country. I didn't say at all that all people who are on the run all over the world are going to come to Norway, as Per-Willy Amundsen puts it, but I say we have a regulation of refugee policy in Norway. It is about how to talk about the people who are coming and who are applying for asylum. After Per-Willy Amundsen left the UDI Spring Conference yesterday, there were two refugees, one from Somalia and one from Iran, who spoke. Both had been accommodated. One said she was watching television with her child. She's trying to spare her child from watching, because the child says, "Mother, now they're talking about us." Have we brought any problems to Norway? And that's exactly the feeling that many people have, and that makes me proud that I'm a part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e1984	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2000	In the spring of 2009, the government has ensured that municipal emergency services are already in place. It entered into force on 1 January 2010. Municipalities are the local foundation of national preparedness. With this in mind, we want to strengthen the role of municipalities in preparedness work, so that the population is given the best possible protection against crises and disasters. Local authorities are currently subject to legal requirements for preparedness preparation in different sectoral areas, but there are no requirements in current legislation requiring municipalities to see the entire municipal emergency response work in the context. Today's threat picture is quite different from the threat picture we had in postwar Norway. Then the Civil Defense Act was an important and absolutely necessary law that was adapted to that threat picture. The Civil Defense Act is one of several laws with the background of World War II experience. With today's legal proceedings, civil defence is legalised as the state relief organisation responsible for planning and implementing measures of a non-military nature to protect the civilian population when the country is at war. As an addition, the law allows civil defence to also help prevent and reduce the potential for damage not caused by acts of war. The risk of adverse events in peacetime is now much greater than the risk of destruction by enemy war acts. This suggests that the provisions of the law should be modernised and adapted to the new challenges facing us in the country’s preparedness work, with particular regard to the civil defence’s peace-time functions. I am thinking about the response to racial accidents, floods, feces, acute pollution, mountain cliffs and other accidents we cannot predict. The rules of international law give citizens the right to protection in war, and key elements such as the warning of danger, evacuation and shelter services continue as important tasks for civil defence in the future. The role of municipalities in the national preparedness picture remains unchanged. They will continue to have a general and fundamental responsibility for ensuring the safety and security of the population in their geographical areas. This proposal proposes the continuation of municipal emergency response obligations where one of the main elements is the carrying out of a comprehensive risk and vulnerability analysis in each municipality to identify possible adverse events. This is an important process in all municipalities, because the challenges and risk profile will vary from municipality to municipality. It is important for this process that we raise awareness and inform both local politicians, citizens and business of the dangers that could threaten their local environment. In addition, at this stage, municipalities must assess the likelihood of, and the risk of, these events also affecting their neighbourhood. Law on municipal emergency services, civil protection measures and civil defence can act as an immaterial matter in a hectic summer interview. However, when crises or adverse events occur, it is important that the municipalities of the country, the state, the management and the personnel of the civil defense, together with voluntary forces, are trained and know how to respond. We still want to keep the spirit of hard work and show the common responsibility we have for each other. I am pleased that, during the examination of the matter, there has been a broad consensus in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Civil Protection and Civil Protection, and that, in sum, the measures in the proposal will provide a better and safer community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2021	We live in a vulnerable society. It's repeatedly reminded us of the last few years. But in everyday life, the issue of social security is getting quite little space. It is only when the accident, disaster, extreme weather occur that social security and preparedness are on the agenda – and then it is to those degrees on the agenda! That is why it is important, both in order to safeguard people's security where the accident occurs, where the disaster occurs, where the flood is great, that civil protection works there, and that it is also visible to society around us that we have a good preparedness organisation in place in Norway, which can solve the challenges. Within this field, we have several actors who have an important responsibility and who do a great job. The civil defence, which the rapporteur had in mind in his good report, has a separate role. With this proposition, it's going to change. It has been subject to a certain change in recent years, but is now subject to a further change in the direction that civil protection in peacetime will be given a greater place – and that is right. What, in the view of the Right, is particularly positive about this proposition is that the role, responsibilities and tasks of municipalities are given special attention. Crisis must be dealt with at the lowest possible level. It also lies in the proposition, and the role of the municipality is underlined. The risk and vulnerability analyses that municipalities are required to produce are a good preparation for possible events that may occur with a low risk. But local and national consequences can be huge if they happen, and the municipalities, that is, the lowest possible level, are the ones that are the closest to dealing with it. In the field of social protection and security, it is also important to establish that the person responsible for the normal situation is also responsible if exceptional events occur. It provides robust command and organisational lines and predictability that are important to bring with it in a stressful situation. The organisation with which you operate on a daily basis shall be as similar as the organisation you use in the event of a crisis. All of this is firmly rooted in Norwegian preparedness. Predictable and recognisable handling in a stressed situation creates security. I – and the Right – think this proposition underlines that, and it itself helps to provide security in a vulnerable society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2036	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting is over. [[See page 3826]] The President will therefore propose that we cancel the morning meeting and set a new meeting at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2073	There is no proposal for a debate, and the President hopes it means that we will have a short debate. For the sake of order, the President will draw attention to the fact that, in a free debate, speaking time is limited to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2078	As the rapporteur on the matter, I shall do my best to ensure that this goes quite quickly. This case concerns the amendment of point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 12 of the Schengen Information System Act, abbreviated SIS. The change will give the customs authorities the right to direct searches into the SIS in line with the police when carrying out border controls and other controls. The customs authorities are currently allowed to familiarise themselves with all categories of information contained in the SIS, but must request it from Kripos. The proposal is therefore essentially a simplification and an improvement in the efficiency of the access already available to the information contained in the SIS by customs authorities. The customs authorities of most of the other Schengen countries have such direct access to the SIS as is proposed in this position. SIS is a register with, among others: information on persons who are requested to be apprehended and provided, who are to be kept for their own security, who are undesirable in the Schengen area, or whose identity is misused by others. In addition, SIS contains information on stolen or lost items, such as motor vehicles, trailers, caravans, firearms, banknotes, blanks and identification documents. SIS is therefore a central tool in the fight against crime across borders. Cooperation across public bodies and bodies is also, in the Committee's view, important for combating organised and cross-border crime. Cooperation between police and customs authorities is therefore of great importance. The hearing bodies are broadly in favour of the proposal. However, the Data Protection Authority is critical of the proposal and believes it increases the burden on privacy. A General Judicial Committee is also committed to the protection of privacy and refers to the Committee's consideration of the Police Register Act and Law Decision 38 of the current General Session. In that case, the Judicial Committee stressed the importance of a clear and good law on information security and internal control in relation to the processing of sensitive information by the police. This is important both for privacy reasons and in order to meet the needs of the police for such information to be protected by unauthorised persons. A Joint Judicial Committee supports the proposal to amend the Schengen Information System Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2097	Cooperation across public bodies and agencies is important to reduce cross-border crime. Police and customs authorities therefore need to facilitate optimal cooperation at both national and international level. The Government’s proposed amendment to the SIS Act gives customs authorities the right to direct searches into the Schengen Information System in line with the police when exercising border control and other controls. The limitation put on access to SIS by customs authorities ten years ago appears today to be an unnecessary obstacle to the effectiveness of the use of data in the register. I remind you of the treatment of police records in winter, where an emphasis is placed on the importance of a clear and good code of information security and internal control when it concerns the processing of personal data in the police. When it comes to SIS, there's a solid framework in place to preserve these aspects. The SIS registry is established on the basis of the Schengen Convention and the regulation is in accordance with the framework of the Convention. The processing of information that is regulated by the SIS Act is therefore not covered by the Police Register Act, but follows the EU’s instructions. Finally, I would like to say that I have led, and I trust, that the Customs Authority will ensure, in the same way as the police, that access to information is exercised in accordance with the SIS Act and the EU has recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2110	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2126	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. The President is also aware that of the 25 minutes of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party has been allocated 5 minutes, so that the speaking time of the Socialist Left Party becomes 10 minutes and of the Workers' Party 20 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to six lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2139	The government has put forward a proposal on changes in the penal code of 1902 on increasing the level of penalties for killing, other serious violence and sexual offences. The case has been brought before you because the Penal Code adopted in 2005 has not yet entered into force, and because there has been a significant change in public terms following decisions in the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court of the country states that the level of penalties adopted in the Penal Code of 2005 can only be implemented gradually until the final date of entry into force of the new criminal law. The Judicial Committee has had a relatively rapid examination of this matter. It is now important that the Storting make its decision and that the proposed changes to criminal sanctions can enter into force immediately, so that the courts can already apply the new sanctions framework. About a year ago, there was a debate in this Chamber with the previous Committee on Justice and Justice Knut Storberget on the adoption of the new penal code to provide the country with a longer term higher level of penalties for a number of serious crimes, including: for those we treat here today. Due to some technical challenges, the new law has not yet been able to come into force, and no one can say for sure when it will come into force. We who are members of the Parliament's Committee on Justice have a number of questions about this, and it seems incomprehensible to most people that it should take so long before a new penal code can come into force. However, I expect that the State Council of Storberget will be able to give the Stortinget a signal as to when we can expect an entry into force when he will speak later in this debate. In the debate one year ago, the Judicial Committee delivered the following opinion on the matter, Innst. O. No 73 for 2008-2009: ‘The Committee emphasises that this should be added to a further increased level of penalties for, inter alia: serious violence, killings, sexual mutilation and violence in close relationships, both through increased penalties, increased minimum penalties and not least through concrete, selected legal decisions and a new level of penalties. The Committee agrees with these guidelines and stresses that it is intended to provide clear guidance on the level of penalties to be applied by the courts in the future in such cases. Furthermore, the Committee would stress that the newly designated level of penalties is intended to apply immediately.’;» In the same debate, the Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General of the Labour Party, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, said the following – and I think we too can join her words: ‘In particular, the Committee agrees that the level of penalties for sexual assault, violence and killing, sexual mutilation and violence in close relations should be significantly increased. We want the significant criminal atrocities we impose on the perpetrators of serious crime to take effect immediately. [[...]] This must be noted by the police, prosecution authorities and courts.’ These are very clear words from a Grand Committee, and it is assumed that such a clear view of a unanimous increase is promptly followed up by both the prosecution and the courts. It is, in any case, difficult to take a debate with the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, but there should be no doubt as to what is the opinion of the country's legislative assembly, and what is the general view of the country's citizens in this matter. The majority clearly announced that the new higher penalties in the new 2005 law would be applied immediately, and this was a very clear message to the third state power of the country’s legislative state power. The prosecutor asked the police and prosecution authorities to apply the new level of staff immediately and thought it would be ideal if the new level of punishment was established when the new penal code came into force. This indicates that the level of penalties should be increased relatively quickly. The Supreme Court stated in two large-scale decisions of 13 November 2009 that the stated normal levels of punishment in the motives of the Penal Code of 2005 could not be fully applied in criminal proceedings under the Criminal Code of 1902, but that it is only after the entry into force of the Penal Code of 2005 that the motivational opinions should be fully effective. These are clear signals from the Supreme Court that the Grand Duchy can only take for information, but also show how urgent it is to implement the new penal code, so that the Supreme Court has no choice. State Council Storberget has in the public change of words whether this matter was relatively clear to the Council of State and has clearly expressed his dissatisfaction with the Supreme Court's assessment of the speed with which the new sanctions were to be phased in. He has stated that if the court did not follow the decision of the Storting, he would force it to kneel. That is why the matter that we are dealing with today came. When the government presented the new proposition we are dealing with here, many believed that the government would follow up the decision made by the Stortinge during the treatment of the 2005 penal code on a significantly higher level of penalties for a number of crimes. The downturn was therefore very great when we discovered that the government did not follow up the decision of the Storting, but suggested much lower penalties than what was in the decision of the Storting. Properly, an increase in minimum penalties is prohibited, and this will lead to a higher level of penalties, but when the maximum penalties are not raised, the level of penalties provided for by the Stortinge will not be increased during the adoption of the 2005 Criminal Code. If we are to have a significantly higher level of punishment, both the minimum and maximum penalties must be raised, because Supreme Court will rarely apply the full penalty framework for the normal level of punishment. Ordinary criminal investigation practices from the Supreme Court are that the upper part of the penalty framework is reserved for the very special, more serious cases. Therefore, with the new lower penalties frameworks, the level of normal penalties will be significantly lower than that foreseen by the Stortinge when the 2005 Act was adopted. Nor is it mentioned why the Government has chosen to do as it has done, and why the decision of last year has not been followed up. It is to provide the Storting with insufficient information, in my opinion. It is not unknown that State Council Storberget employs strong rhetoric when he wants attention around his views and matters. The question is whether there has been too much rhetoric and too little action in this case. What is the signal now sent to the courts? Will the penalties laid down in the Penal Code of 2005 now be applied on a par with the entry into force of the Law in a year or two? Or can the courts, if they think it's right, apply the new sanctions? There is no doubt in any case that the Storberget in this case must go back on much of what he has said. Let's take a second. To the evening post on Thursday, 28 May 2009, he said the following: «Strengthen the punishments for violent and sexual crimes. And do it – now!” In addition, it says: ‘This is a criminal marshal to the judges. The political signals are unique from both the Government and the Stortinget, says Storberget offensively.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Government has no Plan B with an increased upper penalty framework if the Supreme Court opposes increased penalties. That idea has not trodden the Great Mountains, which he says on the contrary, many judges believe are pleased with clear political signals." I believe that it is now reasonably unclear to Stortinget what is really the opinion of the Council of State in this matter. And what political signals is this country's jurisdiction to receive? It could be tempting to apologize to the Council of State for this strong use of words that a year ago we approached a decision to roll over and that he therefore wanted to send clear signals to local residents in Hedmark and other parts of the country that we were dealing here with a powerful government council and a candidate for big business. However, what today and in this setting is the signal from the government and government parties is that the adopted new level of penalties in the 2005 penal code should not apply. When the government parties here in the UK even go back to the proposal that the government has promoted for the Stortinget, a signal is sent that the level of penalties adopted is not to apply. What kind of signal is it to send? The fact that this is justified by economic and administrative consequences is incredible and likely to be lacking in the history of Storting. This means, therefore, that in the richest countries of the world, we cannot afford to increase the penalties and to grant the relatively modest sums that this is about. The question then is whether or not one can afford to implement the 2005 penal code at all, or whether he has to wait until the government can give priority to this. In the 2005 law setting, it is stated that it will take more government budgets before the full implementation of the consequences of the law. In the context of today's suspension, neither the government nor the government parties have written anything about what the costs will be. The financial and administrative costs are therefore not adequately explained in the Prop. 97 L or in the 2005 draft penal code. I am addressing the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2195	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2198	I am pleased that the Committee broadly endorses the government's proposal to increase the penalties considerably for violence and abuse, sexual assault, sexual mutilation and violence in close relations. It is important that society gives a clear signal that this kind of violence is unacceptable. The level of penalties is too low today, and the Penal Code 2005 included: in order to increase the penalties for this type of crime. However, the two Grand Chamber decisions in the Supreme Court last year stated that the stated normal levels of punishment should be gradually escalated and will only be fully applied when the Penal Code enters into force in 2005. For the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, it has always been a priority to raise the level of penalties as quickly as possible. Let it be clear from today's pulpit: with our proposal, we are getting a considerable amount of penance, and we are ensuring that this force of punishment is now in force. Violence and sexual assault are a serious social problem. For those affected, the consequences are great. These are offensive acts, and for many it can completely change life and give long-lasting physical and mental consequences. At the same time, this kind of crime creates fear, even in those who do not. Despite the fact that the level of penalties for rape has been increased in recent years, the level of penalties remains at the bottom of the criminal framework. It is an objective that the criminal framework and the level of penalties between different types of crime are in a fair relationship with each other, and it has therefore been important for the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens to raise the level of penalties for rape in order to better match the level of penalties for other comparable offences. In order to raise the level of penalties, we are therefore doing some important action: we are increasing the minimum penalty for rape, and the level of normal penalties is to be significantly higher than today. The level of penalties is indicated by reference to the judgment decisions under review in the proposal. And we are giving a clear signal to the courts that the upper part of the penalty framework should be used to a greater extent than today. At the same time, it is important that we do not forget the fact that too many rape cases are never reported and that too many cases are passed on to the police. Therefore, it is important that, while setting up sanctions, we also need to strengthen the police's competence and ensure that the reporter is taken seriously. One of our most important tasks is the fight against violence in close relationships — a situation that too many experience as a daily terror. Here, too, the level of penalties is too low, especially in the case of child abuse. Therefore, the upper penalty framework for violation of the criminal law § 219 first penalty option for imprisonment is lifted for up to four years and third penalty option for 10 years. We are now making sure that there are more severe penalties. It is an important signal that this is serious crime, from which society separates and is to be punished more severely. But let us not forget today that we are not combating crime by means of stricter penalties alone. One of the major challenges in just violence in close relationships is that too many do not report, do not dare seek help and do not manage to get out of the situation. Fortunately, we now see an increase in the number of reviews. It is probably not primarily about the fact that there are several cases, but that more people report. It's about political focus, and we've managed to lift a taboo area out of the house's four walls and into the public. For violence and killing, too, the punishment must be lifted. I am pleased that we are giving a clear signal that the punishment for unprovoked violence, gross violence and bodily damage is being accentuated significantly. The majority are not in favour of raising the upper penalty limit from six to eight years in Section 229 of the Criminal Act, other criminal options and Section 219, second paragraph. The reason is the economic and administrative changes, which would result in the impunity of the criminal shrapnel. This is also well described in the letter from the Minister of Justice to Stortinget. But I would like to stress that it does not rock the purpose of the proposition, namely that the penalty level should rise. By indicating the level of normal penalties and by raising the penalties provided for in Section 219, first paragraph, and Section 229, first and third penalty options, we will have a significant penalty tightening. For us, it has been a priority to get up the penalty level quickly. We wouldn't have done that if we had raised the penalties to eight years. The consequence of this would have been that we most likely had to wait until 2011 at the earliest to get the wanted punishment tightening. I would like to stress that the changes we are making today in the penal code in 1902 are a transitional arrangement until the criminal law comes into force in 2005. We aim for this to happen in 2012, and the majority therefore do not consider it appropriate to postpone the criminal atrocities in the 1902 Act until 2011. When the Progress Party in the VG – and on its own websites – claims that we do not increase the level of punishment, it is directly wrong. You can wonder whether the Progress Party deliberately misunderstands, or whether they simply lack a basic understanding of how to ensure longer penalties. I want to warn Stortinget against looking blindly at the upper penalty framework. For the major challenge, it is precisely that the level of normal punishment for this type of crime is too low and is at the bottom of the punishment framework. That is why there is a considerable scope for increasing the level of penalties within today’s criminal framework, and that is precisely what we ensure by indicating the level of normal penalties based on the judgments under review. This way of raising the level of penalties has also given the Supreme Court its approval. And it may be appropriate to quote the party representative Jan Arild Ellingsen during the debate on the penal code in 2005. Elling said the following about this way of raising the level of punishment: ‘Metodic I think it’s very good, because it’s concrete, and it’s clear what you want to achieve.’ I could not agree more. And once again, let me repeat the main message, because it might seem like not everyone's hanging out. With the majority's proposals, we will have increased penalties for rape. We will have increased penalties for violence, blind violence and gross violence. We will have increased penalties for killing, increased penalties for sexual mutilation, increased penalties for violence in close relations and increased penalties for abuse of overpower. On average, the government proposes to increase the penalties by 30 p.m., and for some crimes of violence, it is a penalty tightening up to 100 p.m. It's as far away from a failure statement as it's almost possible to get. With the proposals of the Right and Advance Party, we might have a paper decision that looked good on the flyers, and on the front page of the newspapers. But I'm not running politics to make decisions on paper that can't be put into practice. I'm working on policies to change real life. With the red-green proposals, we will have a strong tightening of the penalties, and they will come into force with immediate effect. I am therefore pleased to vote in favour of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2245	It's almost so I end up with the last word in a prayer, but I won't. Goethe said that you should distrust all those who feel a strong urge to punish, while Edmund Burke said that bad laws are perhaps the worst form of tyranny. It may form the back porch because the Børneboe on its side stated that any progress depends on both written and unwritten laws being broken. So today we are dealing with another chapter where we do not know the conclusion of what we are adopting today is going to come into force, within the framework of the new penal code that we adopted last year. It will be exciting to see the color of the government that will finally enjoy promoting the entry into force of the new penal code. It has been said about the history of mankind that it is the story of ever injustice and assault by man towards the woman in order to tyrantize her completely. I hope we're not there in 2010, but in any case it was so that in the old penal code there was consideration for property and values that got the main focus – the one we're now using as a kind of emergency port pending the entry into force of the new one. Sexual assault is a major social problem, with major and often traumatic consequences for the individual. In the rape committee's investigation, it was found that eight out of ten reports were filed by the police. It's still a big challenge today. It's not acceptable to have 90 pst. of all rapes and attempted rapes never become known to the police, and so few cases reported are resolved. Although rape is so widespread, and victims are severely affected, the perpetrators remain virtually invisible in the criminal justice system. This is why the whole of the United Kingdom has been aware that it is necessary to step up the work on sexual abuse and that a new criminal law must ensure that this type of crime is punished in a way that is compatible with the general rule of law. A little history: It is, as you know – and said several times – not yet clear when the new penal code will come into force. That should have been believed, because afterwards, and throughout the election campaign ahead of the election, the Minister of Justice in the media gave the impression that new criminal orders were in place, and almost overnight would lead to severe penalties for violent and moral crimes, in the pact with the Constitution of the Storting. It met legal counterclaims. On that basis, for a long time, the Right asked the government to clarify whether it would then be open to do what it is doing today, to include these penalties in the 1902 penal code. It was rejected by the government until the turn of the year – in the new year this year. In the meantime, from the Right, on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Court in the two appeals in November 2009, we promoted a proposal that would contribute to the realization of the promises made by the Council of State throughout the electoral campaign on behalf of a unanimous increase. When we discussed that proposal, we commended the Council of State and the majority for having turned around by coming to the Right and the opposition, in a field where we have therefore tried to stand together politically together, when it was announced that the Council of State would promote such a bill via the media – and follow the proposal of the Right. At that time there was reason to praise without reservation, for that witness of great political power. But the Council of State was partly recovered by its own words, which in this case turns out to be something greater than reality, and it turns out unfortunately more often and more often. The police who are to ensure that this penal code is enforced warn them that they must cut 500 posts. But you fly around and bring the same foils as you did in the budget presentation, when the Storting didn't know or had the whole picture in terms of what was going to turn out to be the operating budgets in the real world afterwards. Crime itself describes it as being in crisis, while the Council of State says that criminal custody is in a golden age. In connection with this matter, the Council of State on the debate page of the Evening Post today is almost insulted at the evening post's editorial on Friday 4 June. There's a lead writer who has done nothing but compare words to action when he describes the process ahead of the law we're dealing with today. Of course, even if this type of comment is to be made with a pinch of salt, it should make a certain impression that you do not say from the evening post that you have got an impression, but that you have a ‘impressed impression by a playful Minister of Justice who is capable of getting attention on engaging individual matters, but who are drooling with the more everyday but equally necessary footwork of politics’. There is reason to commend initiative and action, but there is no reason to praise the way the Council of State as a member of a government is dealing with the Storting as a state body in this matter. Multiplier steering is certainly good, it can provide stability and predictability, but it can also provide ground for poorer procedures. The more often and more often so-called incurries occur, which we have to deal with at this moment, because unfortunately both the Council of State and the government seem to be slowing down very little on the requirements. And I have to say that you have taken good habits when, on the debate page of the Evening Post today, you say the following: ‘Unfortunately, some important procedural consequences were translated into the government’s legislative proposals.’ And then it's described as if the Judiciary Committee has almost at ease fixed this in its setting on the basis of input from team judges. It's not allowed to quote from committee meetings, but it's allowed to quote your own thoughts, which I think are shared by both the one and the other: this matter has not been handled satisfactorily by the government towards the Stortinget. I would recommend, on the basis of the process that has actually been, that perhaps the Council of State was a little bit more responsible to the Parliament to which he is constitutionally responsible, and please a little less wronged towards the Evening Post and those who point out the distance between words and reality. But as the previous speaker quite as the voice was inside, we actually come some step further by following up and putting in a good portion of what we all agree on. However, like the Progress Party, the right considers it important to do a few things now, namely to increase the maximum penalty when people in highly trusted positions abuse their position to commit sexual assault. It is important to send a signal by raising the lowest penalties to up to six years for physical injury. We also believe that it is necessary to further increase the level of penalties for sexual harassment against young people, in order to emphasise the seriousness of this type of abuse against young people, and not least to have a stronger search for violence in close relations by further increasing the level of penalties in relation to government proposals. In the public debate, critical questions have been asked as to whether the description given in connection with the treatment of criminal law last year in the case of negligent photocopies was fully comprehensive. In the review of the department, it was claimed that the case law of today was in line with the intentions of the previous amendment in 2001, when the law was amended because the Stortinget believed that too many were convicted of negligent killing. What turns out when a survey of recent practice has been carried out is that it appears to be the opposite. It appears that there is arbitraryity in both guilt and punishment issues, as well as different practices in different parts of the country. And it causes, in the opinion of the Right, a new review of the case-law, as also the Department, through Secretary of State Aas-Hansen, has announced in Bergen's Official Journal. I could imagine to be confirmed by the Council of State that such a review will be carried out that has been announced in the media by one of his State Secretarys. It is a review that we attend with great interest, and we assume that we are informed of the findings, and that the necessary legislative proposals may be presented. That is why today we do not support the proposal of the Progress Party to amend the law on this point now. So finally, the representative, Håheim, was in the middle of everything, some important things about how to combat some of the things we're talking about today. That's absolutely right. One thing, of course, is that you make sure that the police don't go into another crisis, but the other is attitudes. It's an important job we all have to do in view of the attitude work that needs to be done in relation to all the rapes that happen to someone you know. Unfortunately, girls with short skirts are seen as wild among some, regardless of their skin color and ethnicity, simply because they have a negative view of women. Unfortunately, an assault is considered to be a ‘real’ rape, while in some other situations there is a tendency to relax responsibility on the exposed person, in the form of over-emphasis on physical violence rather than on the overall picture. And in the case of children, you just don't have to use as much power to make it do what an adult wants, because it keeps manipulating, and girls and boys in a vulnerable life phase can also be manipulated quite easily. There are things that it may not be relevant to discuss today, but it is an important perspective to have when we are going to make this penal code work. I would also like to inform you that the Right is going to support the vote subsidiaryly, if not the majority is going to do the right thing, namely to support what they really think – at least last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2290	SV and this government are very concerned with preventing violence in all forms and against all citizens. Freedom from violence and threats of violence is a human right. Punishment seems general, and it gives the victims a certain uproar. That's why SV, together with our government partners, has from day one worked to intensify the punishment for violence, gross violence, violence in close relations, sexualized violence and killing. I record that this line has full support in Stortinget. Over time, it has developed a level of penalties for the most integrity-affecting acts that are too low in relation to other criminal offences. The level of penalties for various offences shall, as far as possible, reflect the seriousness of the public opinion's view of a crime. A unanimous increase in the treatment of new criminal law in 2005 decided last year to increase the level of penalties, among other things. for gross violence, murder, rape, sexual assault, sexual mutilation and violence in close relations. In order to ensure such an increase in levels, clear signals were given in the form of increased penalties, the increase in minimum penalties and the application of a new level of normal penalties. It was emphasised that the increased level of penalties would apply immediately. However, the Supreme Court was of a different opinion. In two large-chamber decisions – as explained earlier here – they concluded that the stated normal levels of punishment in the motives of the Penal Code of 2005 could not be fully applied in criminal proceedings under the Criminal Code of 1902, but that it is only after the entry into force of the Penal Code 2005 that the motivational opinions should be fully effective. The Supreme Court stated that the level of penalties should be gradually increased until the final adoption of the level of penalties. SV and the government of course take note of this statement and with understanding. But since we have been impatient all the time to increase the level of penalties in the above-mentioned crimes, we will use our mandate as legislator to achieve the wanted punitive shrews faster than the court imposes by means of a decision in the United Kingdom today. After the case was sent to Stortinget, the Minister of Justice has made Stortinget aware that some of the changes in the law had some economic and administrative consequences that were not stated in the proposal. Raising the penal framework from six to eight years will include, among other things: give rise to unconditional appeals and that the case be brought with a horizontal approach. These impacts could not be covered within the current budgetary framework. Therefore, in order to prevent any further delay in the entry into force of the legislative changes, the Government Parties have made some adjustments. We will therefore maintain the six-year penalty framework for cases under the second paragraph of Section 219 of the Criminal Code and 229 other criminal options. At the same time, we have given a clear message that the courts should make much greater use of the upper limits of these frameworks. I'm not hiding that the upper frame is an important signal. However, much more important is the active use of the framework and the fact that the normal punishment is higher than the current level. Today’s criminal law-enforcement practices related to abuse in close relationships and violent offences lie at the bottom of the criminal framework. Within the existing criminal framework, we will be able to significantly increase the level of penalties, and that is what is now being done for these provisions. In this way, we get a sharp increase in the level of penalties for abuse in close relations and violent crime. Let me end by stressing the focus SV and the other government parties have always had on combating violence and assault. Disadvantages and survivors have gained a clearer status through criminal proceedings and have extended their rights, including: by extending the right to an aid lawyer. We have set up six children's homes to provide a comprehensive follow-up of children who are subjected to violence and other abuses. In recent years, the National Attorney General has also intensified efforts to strengthen police and prosecution authorities' work on the legal protection of children in these areas. Among other things, it has been difficult to deal with individual cases in order to ensure optimal treatment, thereby contributing to the build-up of competences and, in general, to improve the investigation and prosecution of such cases. The Ministry of Justice is preparing a consultation note proposing that sudden and unexpected deaths in children should always be investigated, regardless of suspicion of criminal offences. Later this evening we will adopt the so-called abolition obligation under the penal code of 1902 § 139. The severance obligation shall include, inter alia: include abuse in close relationships and multiple types of sexual offences against children. With the decision we take today, as soon as the changes come into force, we will have a significantly stricter level of penalties. That's what the goal was, and that's what the goal is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2303	There shall be consistency between the seriousness of the various offences and the penalties that a person may be penalised for. When it comes to violence and sexual abuse, there are too low penalties in relation to offences of a different nature. In the general sense, it is of course important that the level of penalties be increased, as provided for by the relevant legislative proposal, and not least for victims and dependants. Today, when we propose to change selected penalties and minimum penalties in the 1902 penal code, it is as a solution during the transitional period between this criminal law and the last criminal law passed in 2005. It will take some time for the new penal code to come into force. In order to achieve the goal of increasing the penalties for killings, other serious acts of violence and sexual offences, we are therefore changing the current law somewhat. The majority of the Supreme Court has been in favour of a gradual increase in the level of normal penalties in two large-scale decisions, pending the entry into force of the Penal Code of 2005. This has not been satisfactory for all of us who have wanted the level of punishment to rise rapidly. It is not always that patience is a virtue, but we should be impatient and act. I'm glad that through the bill, we can just increase the level of punishment rather than the Supreme Court would otherwise impose. Now there has been a discussion about three statements where the legislative proposals were going to increase the punishment from six to eight years, and where the economic and administrative consequences of adopting these now would be so great that it would have required considerable extra privileges. Therefore, in order not to prevent such a process from providing for stricter penalties immediately from 1 July, the majority have opted not to increase the penalties in the 1902 Act for precisely these three examples. One might say that our goal is more important than the means in that way. Penalty cases of 2005 are due to enter into force after a quarter of a year, and the penalties will become eight years. For immediate advice to ensure an immediate and severe increase in the level of penalties for abuse in close relationships and gross elections, we avoid precisely the changes that would have delayed this in the transitional regime that today’s suspension provides. The size now gives an inviting signal to raise the level of penalties within this framework. I am pleased with the efforts of the Red-Green Government and the Minister of Justice against violence and abuse. Today's decision will be another step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2316	The Christian People's Party is not represented in the Judiciary Committee, and therefore I must admit that when I sat on the map and looked at what things came up, I saw a simple treatment of the matter. When I saw a VG lookup and later the configuration from the committee, I was surprised. This case has a rather peculiar history: in the context of the decision of new criminal law, the Stortinget just decided to increase the level of punishment for elected and sexual offences. This ran into the Christian People's Party. We have long had in the programme that a tightening of the criminal response for this category of crime, which we have thought was too low, and which is also contrary to people's sense of justice, has been important to implement. The majority also stated that they increased the penalties should be introduced immediately, even if the new criminal law had not yet entered into force. This would not be fully in line with the case of the Supreme Court, but would instead gradually increase the level of penalties until the new criminal law becomes applicable. It was also not good enough for the Stortinget, and the opposition to the Stortinget therefore went to the head in order to increase the level of penalties in the Penal Code 2005 to be passed through changes in the laws currently in force, including the criminal code. through a proposal from the Right. The Minister of Justice followed this call and promised that the new level of penalties would be introduced immediately by law-making in the United Kingdom. We were many who praised him that day, but it has resulted in the matter we are dealing with today, but in a somewhat different way. But then it happens especially that the government hasn't thought about increasing penalties getting criminal acts that cost money. Layer handling and extending of appeal rights are some of the consequences that were overlooked. So this will cost more money than one of the Court’s over-the-counter foods can handle within the existing budget. This will not solve the problem by allowing the necessary extra resources to carry out its declared will, but by postponing the introduction of new sanctions. This is, as I said, without exaggerating a strange procedure that doesn't exactly provide trust. But that also means that a far removed possibility of getting a stricter legal protection for several groups. The Christian People's Party insists on the desire to raise the level of punishment for violent and sexual offences, and will therefore support the joint proposals from the Right and the Advance Party at this point. We believe that the intention of getting a level of punishment that reflects more closely the seriousness of society's view of this kind of action must be decisive. We believe that the courts must be financially able to meet the challenges this will bring. I would like to stress the importance of strengthening the capacity of the courts, so that they do not become a clot in the criminal proceedings chain. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government, after many years of real curfew to the courts, in this year's revised budget comes with a small increase. But that's not enough. If we are to prevent redundancy and the cessation of additions, the courts must be strengthened further. If not, the result will be a longer trial period, a worse trial for victims, and less legal certainty. We have to avoid that. Finally, I would also like to stress, like the representative of Håheim, that punishment alone does not solve all the challenges. Therefore, preventive work must also be strengthened, and one must always work with restraints. Chosen, selective and sexual abuse is a serious problem that can destroy the lives of the victims. Psychiatric disorders, trauma, fear and concentration problems are just some of what many people feel about. I want to take with me the seriousness, as many people have also said, that very many electoral cases are never reported, and by those who are reported, too many people end up with abduction from the police. That is why it is important to have a good electoral reception and a better knowledge of the police. We must strengthen the chain for both prevention and stricter penalties. The decision that is being made today unfortunately pushes out the last in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2344	I have two similarities with the representative Ropstad: one is that the left is not in the committee, and the other is that I broadly agree with everything he said. It was with great amazement the left-hand read setting when it came from the Justice Committee, in relation to both the government parties in this room, and the government council has taken care of the fact that he was going to settle in, and that it was not settled in. For me, this is a much more important equality issue than the one we discussed earlier today. This might be one of the fields where equality is getting shorter. This is our penal law, a law made for men and men's honor, while women's honor is not so important. That's what we were going to do with this -- this was our equality grip. This was seized by this Parliament, who said that limping on women's honor is as important as trampling on men's honor and that one should actually judge it the same. This is one of the fields where we see that equality has not come far enough, where abuse against women is not so dangerous, while all the abuses to which men are subjected are valued with high penalties. The left is a batch that usually does not call for high penalties. We have faith in many other things. But in this area, we actually believe that increasing penalties is an important issue for equality. It's an important equality issue, because it's about when women's integrity is violated, it's as important as when men's integrity is violated. We were very proud of the job we got started when we had the Minister of Justice in this field – both in relation to the police's competence, in relation to the focus on violence in close relations, and in relation to the construction of rape receptions. Because this isn't just about the police learning to take it seriously. It must also be that there is a profession we do not mention in that context, namely doctors, who have to turn their heads from being the one helping, to the one taking the evidence. We know that a lot of doctors don't have the competence to be a proof taker. They have competence in how to help the human being sitting in front of them, but they do not always have the competence to take up evidence. That's why this is a long chain that you need to strengthen to strengthen this field. It's not just about turning police heads, it's also about turning doctors' heads, and it's about having a system that's good enough to accept this. I have to say, I'm sorry that if you are subjected to a serious rape, I hope it's in Oslo, because here's the best device to receive one, both to help, to take up evidence and other things. I believe that the competence we have in Oslo should have been spread across the whole country in the ways that we can actually do it. Here we have both medical teams and the police who can take it seriously, and that competence we need to spread beyond. I think this is a little sad, because I thought this was one thing we were gathered about. For me, this is primarily a blow to equality. That's what we discussed that this should be an important grip for. So we're going to vote in favour of proposal No. One, two, three, four. We're doing the right thing – if they fall, we're voting subsidiaryly for the committee's position. We think it's sad to spend a long time in a debate in the morning fighting for Dad's rights to leave, which is a small thing in the gender equality struggle, when we see that women are still being trampled on, and you don't follow the penal code. It's a much more important equality fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2363	It must not be left as an impression of this debate that we are not now adopting a significant criminal tightening in important areas. I was about to say – you both take action for increased penalties for many important crimes, and you send out very clear signals, as are several representatives in the previous ageing period, among others. Mr Ellingsen from the Party of Advances pointed out as a good methodology. One of the reasons for doing this is precisely what the representative Trine Skei Grande was about now, but which also several people have been involved in: it is an imbalance in old criminal law, which, in my opinion, has been marked by the fact that the penal code is very much made by and for men. That is why it is the legislative proposal that is being discussed today, a marking and an important time gap in order to get a higher level of punishment for killing, other serious violence and sexual offences. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that the current level of normal penalties for these offences needs to be substantially increased. This gives a clear and strong signal to the courts. And with all due respect, we've already noticed that the work that the Storting and a group of politicians have signaled through the future penal code has begun to work, with a gradual escalation. Now, when you go in and change existing criminal law in this way, I'm convinced that there's a very strong signal that the courts have to worry about, and that you get a faster lifting than what we would have if we hadn't done this. That's why we're doing this. Raising the level of penalties for killings, other serious violence and sexual offences shall take effect as soon as the legislative changes are brought into force. In this we achieve a rapid increase in the level of penalties in such cases. I am aiming for the law to be sanctioned before the common holiday, and for us to come into force from 1 July. The proposal proposes changes to selected penalties and minimum penalties in the 1902 penal code. There are some speakers who have been up here and made it like there is no change at all – everything is parked, everything is exposed. But you can see from the legal mirror – we have made a legal mirror in the Ministry of Justice that shows each and every provision – what you do in each and every provision, and make it available to those representatives who are unsure about what is actually going on. The instructions for new normal penalties to which the Stortinget has joined during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 22 for 2008-2009, whether the specific part of the new penal code is repeated in the proposal and supplemented by recent decisions that have been taken after the promotion of the previous proposal. This way of implementing criminal tightening is completely new. A review of case-law has provided an empirical basis for concrete indication of the level of penalties to be lifted and the extent to which they should be raised. Why is it that it should not have any effect any more? It has already had effect, gradually however, but it has had effect, so that those who now make it like this is – I kept saying – paper without power, has a heavy burden of proof. I am sure that this strategy is very suitable for achieving the desired level of punishment, because in this way the courts get a clear signal from the legislator about what should be the normal level of penalties for these offences. The majority of the Committee has made some adjustments to the legislative proposal of the government: the upper penalty framework in the second paragraph of Section 219 and the second option of 229 shall not be lifted from six to eight years in prison. Reasons for it have been given by several people. But the fundamentals of the proposition and the treatment of the Storting do not depend on the fact that there is a desire to increase the level of penalties within these provisions. What makes representatives believe it? We know, of course, that the criminal law enforcement tradition in Norway has been at its lowest for a long time, and you have more than enough to go on to increase the level of penalties just as the majority of people want. As the majority of the committee points out, the changes that I am now pointing to will not dampen the desired lifting of the penalty level for §§219, second paragraph, and 229, other penalty options. But there are still many other paragraphs in which to change, so that making this outward appearance, as I feel the Progress Party has done, as if everything were exposed, is at best misleading. Changes to the criminal framework are made in the first paragraph of Section 219 as well as in the first and third penalty options of Section 229. The motivational opinions on a significant increase in the level of penalties for abuse in close relationships and for bodily damage thus have a clear legal basis. The current proposed tightening of the penalties is based on the recognition of the general preventive effects of the penalties and on the need to balance individual penalties and penalties against each other and to be proportionate. I am pleased, as has been said, that an overall committee is joining the significant criminal atrocities proposed. I've been fighting for that long, I think it's right. It is one of many measures, including: to find out the seriousness of the issues of sexual assault, violence and threats to children and women. At the same time, I note that some members of the Committee want a higher level of criminal penalties for some offences. To this end, I would like to point out that the government believes that the increases in the levels of penalties currently proposed are sufficiently significant. I point out that there are generally increases of about one third, and in some cases there is a doubling of the level of penalties. I would like to elaborate on this: today's criminal investigation practice on abuse in close relations and violent crime is at the bottom of the criminal scene. In this way, we will be able to increase the level of penalties strongly within existing criminal frameworks – more than is known – and that is what is now being done for some alternatives related to abuse in close relations and violent crime. Let me give you two concrete examples: For violation of the second paragraph of Section 219, gross abuse in close relations, the penalty framework is today imprisonment for up to six years. This will not be lifted now, but the level of penalties for such infringements will be greatly increased. For example, in 2009, the Supreme Court passed a judgment in which sentences were sentenced to one year and four months in prison, and the Court of Justice in 2009 on page 1336. Domfelte had regularly beaten, kicked and threatened the children. In addition, the doomsdays had threatened to kill one of the children. For a similar case, the proposition states that the penalty should initially be prison for two years and six months — close to a doubling of the sentence. For body damage under Section 229, other penalty options are prison sentences for up to six years. This is not being raised now, but the level of penalties is being proposed significantly increased for this option as well. Today, the level in the area of prison is 90-120 days for body damage in the event of unprovoked violence in the form of gangs against the head of the offended. The penalty for similar acts is stated in the proposition to be initially not less than six months of unconditional imprisonment. Here, too, there will be a doubling of the level of punishment, with a methodology that the Progress Party thought a year ago was favourable to raising the level of punishment, and which I perceive that the courts – albeit gradually – have also taken as very clear signals from a political majority. In both examples, the six-year prison sentence is sufficient for such severe increases in the level of punishment. I am pleased that a joint committee concludes on the significant criminal atrocities that are now being proposed for killing, other serious violence and sexual offences. The concrete and justified guidelines relating to the level of penalties provide clear signals from the legislator as to what should be the normal level of penalties for the offences in question. I agree with the amendments proposed by the majority of the Committee because they are correct in order to avoid unnecessary procedural consequences that could lead to a significant delay in the implementation of the legislative changes. At the same time, I stress again that these changes do not stem from the fact that for these two provisions, the second paragraph of Section 219 and the second sentence option of Section 229, we will have a severe increase in the level of penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2406	First, I have to say that the Council of State is very selective about what he has heard, when he refers to other people's posts. This matter asks many questions, and there are very few answers. When, a year ago, the Stortinge took a unanimous decision on a higher maximum penalty level, the Council of State was out and marketing this. Then he comes to the Stortinget now and is going to implement it, and does not mention in a single word why he does not follow up the Stortinget decision. He does not mention the economic/administrative consequences either. In addition, this means that the Council of State admits the most serious crimes a penalty discount in relation to the 2005 Act. What signal does this send out to the victims of this type of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2420	The premise for the question is wrong. Thus, in the government and the majority of the population, we believe that the methodology used last year to specify the level of normal penalties within a criminal order is a very clear signal to increase the penalty within that provision. That's what we're doing. I believe that when you face criminal orders and the two paragraphs in question, 219 and 229 – some part of it, not all – point to concrete legal decisions and say that here the level should lie, at that level and not at the low level, it is sufficient, even when you are faced with an unchanged framework. This is where I believe – to the case rapporteur and in view of the arguments that have been put in the press, clearly both before and after the case was given in Stortinget – that what is sufficient is actually done to get the desired level of punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2429	Just to confirm: the right side is that we also adopt sanctions today, since we were the initiators of the government making this proposal. The question is, at what point did the Council of State become aware of the circumstances in which he had to send a late, clarifying letter, which received constitutional criticism? What is the reason why the ministry did not evaluate these conditions? With regard to the size of information needs and procedural issues, does the Council of State feel that he has learned something that he might want to draw with him if he presents more laws to the Grand Council on criminal law?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2436	This is the second time the representative asked me about the time. I have so much respect for Stortinget that if I want to specify the date when things came to the department, I have to check it and get back to it. The representative can get it in writing, as he got it on the previous request. But this is evident from the correspondence in the matter, at least when we responded to the committee. I just have to stress that I am very pleased that André Oktay Dahl now opened his line by expressing an understanding of raising the level of punishment in regulations other than the two we are now arguing about. This is important in particular: public debate, but not least to the courts, that the majority, and also to the Right, are just expressing the fact that the majority has now done so, is significantly increasing the level of penalties. If we start to undermine it, I'm afraid the signal effect on the courts is decreasing. I'm going to be the first to admit that this legal process has gone fast. It is because we believe – and want to be intensely – that the penalties should be treated; more stringent penalties should be imposed once this has been dealt with. And, as I've been preparing for... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2447	I think everyone in the Chamber is aware that we are increasing the penalties in many areas, but in this debate the arguments of both the Council of State and the position parties show that attack is the best defence. But I'll quote from the majority position: ‘The majority argue that even if one does not increase the penalties for those categories of offences: [[...]] So you don't raise the penalties for these categories of offences. And next round, they say it's because of administrative and economic challenges. Then my simple question becomes to the Council of State: If you had cleared up the administrative challenges and given enough money, could you have raised the penalties for these categories of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2463	You could, and you could bring many of these matters within direct appeal and regulation – that's quite possible. But what you can also do is raise the level of penalties within these two provisions – that is not the whole provision in the case of §219 and §229. It is also possible to increase the level of penalties within other paragraphs and the second option of the respective provisions by taking the steps that the Storting is now taking. That's why I just have to say that what is imperative to the government and the majority of the population is that the level of punishment is actually being raised. When it is raised, I would say that I think it's a good assessment you do when you don't bring many cases into the process system that involves horizontal. And then I have to hurry up and say that I am also very happy that the Progress Party, at the head of the committee, expresses the fact that the penalty level is actually raised in a significant number of cases in addition to the debate we have on §219 and §229. For outdoors – in the press, and in the VG – there is something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2474	We are now in a somewhat special situation that we have a Minister of Justice who governs crime policy according to fiscal considerations. It's something special. At the same time, he admits that, as the Council of State, he has not had the necessary implementation in the government in order to implement the level of penalties that both the government and the Grand Duchy have previously adopted. It must be a defeat. In addition, I see that the implementation of the Penal Code of 2005 is now being pushed out further, because it is now signaling that this will be so expensive that we cannot afford a penalty level at the level of the law we have passed. Can the Council of State notify the Storting of the cost of introducing the level of penalties we have adopted under the 2005 Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2485	Once again, I believe the case rapporteur is making the matter quite wrong, because this is not about the financial and administrative consequences of the level of penalties. It is about the economic and administrative consequences of criminal proceedings – moving these cases into horizontal form. But the level of penalties ensures that we do so by taking the steps that are now being taken in the proposition, in the debate and in the decision. That's why I think it's wrong to link the more procedural statements to the level of punishment, because you get the level of punishment you want here. I would also like to reject the fact that today I have said, or given some indication, that the new penal code is now being pushed out in time. What kind of coverage do you have to say that? I was saying, that's exactly what the government has taken up, and for which we also get criticism of the opposition, when we reach, among other things. use some of the means out in Justice-Norway to equip the police with ICT, which is a clear prerequisite for setting up a new criminal law. And we do that because we want it as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2493	I'll clarify my previous question a little bit more about the time. The reason why I'm asking questions about it is that we want to know what the background is that the department at all hadn't thought about it. Then it is a little important to know: was it such that the department had no information at all when it was dealt with in the Council of State and presented the matter to the Stortinget? Or had you received any information about the things you discovered after the matter was presented in Stortinget? So the second question, can the Council of State confirm, or cancel, that a review of the case-law relating to so-called negligent imaging is going to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2500	When it comes to the first question, the answer is the same thing as I did. As regards the date and time when we received the information, I will ensure that the representative is correctly informed. I'll come back to that. With regard to the case-law on negligent killings, especially related to photocopies, I have been contemplating the relationship with my State Secretary – I am behind her statement that it is necessary to have a review of this. It is not certain that the legal provisions are involved, but it may well be so much about both investigation and prosecution practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2510	As has previously been mentioned in this case, it is not the very level of penalties that have to do with whether there will be fewer crimes. It has to do with people's sense of justice, how people feel about committing serious crimes, and it has to say something about how serious a crime is. Without this becoming a debate about punishment that works – even some people are calling for lower sentences, because higher sentences have no preventative effect, and have no effect on criminals: now some criminals are the ones we call ‘repetitors’, who frequent prisons quite often, while some zones for the first and only time; so they have committed a crime in a pure coincidence, or in an affect, and son at one time. But society should, as I said, give signals to both criminals and society otherwise that crime does not pay off, and how serious crime is at the time of punishment. I don't think that any longer punishment will be what works either. What works is the content of the property. But yet, in order for us to give the signals that are right to society, and say that it is a serious crime, it has to do with the level of punishment. As regards this case, it is said that it has received a quick treatment, and that there have been rapid changes. The first time the matter was up was for approx. a year ago, when it was clear where the penalty level would be. Now we have come to that part of this year, and the representative Ropstad was among others. I told him that he was surprised. I will promise that Ropstad was not the only one who was surprised when we saw the result of this treatment. We expected a clear proposition from the government. But then some of the changes made to the law will have economic consequences, which the representative Chaudhry was also involved in, for example. that the convictions then have a right to appeal and that the appeal shall be dealt with by a jury, which increases the costs. What's strange is that this should have been known after treatment in May–June 2009. You should have known that then, and you should have put it in the state budget for 2010. It was not done, and you use it as an excuse for not being able to run with the decisions that have been made in this case. Let it be raised above any doubt: increase in minimum penalties helps. It will raise the level of punishment. There's no doubt about it. The minimum penalty has been approx. two years. The average penalty for part of the crimes has been two years and nine months. When we raise it to three years, the worst case scenario is that we increase the penalties by about three years. three months. Now we are aware that decisions have been taken in the Stortinget in the past, and there have been clear signals from an overall collapse to the Supreme Court that penalties should be increased. Then we also see, as the Council of State said, that there is a tendency for us to get an increase in the level of penalties, which is positive. I had expected that the council had been a little more humble and admitted that someone has lost some time in this matter, for there is no doubt about it. The representative Håheim made a contribution that was a violent and committed defense of a solid loss made by the Government. It says respect. But I had expected, as I said, that the council would be a little bit more humble and admitted that here we might have drifted a little bit on the draw, but we'll try to fix this next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2531	reasonably certain that the term ‘to move on the draw’ is not a parliamentary expression and must ask the representative to choose other ways of describing the situation. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2536	Anyway, it's a covering expression!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2541	That doesn't comment on the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2544	As I said earlier, we have a case in front of us that has a lot of questions. I find that the Stortinget still does not have more information about the questions that have been asked specifically in the matter. So the Council of State is trying to give the impression that the Progress Party has been against raising the minimum penalties. The Progress Party has never said that we are against it. Of course, the Progress Party supports the lifting of the minimum penalties. That is good, and we agreed on that in Stortinget when we dealt with the 2005 Act. The Progress Party criticises the Storberget Government Council, which is precisely that it does not follow up on the whole and the full decision that was taken. So the Council of State says that it's not the very level of punishment, from six to eight years, that's the challenge, but it's the criminal procedure. To be honest, this is related! It is the level of punishment that triggers criminal procedural rules. Then you refer to the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who was a member of the Justice Committee during the previous period, who thought that this was a good methodology with normal penalties. Yes, the Progress Party continues to support this. We have voted in favour, and have not criticised anyone for indicating a level of normal punishment. However, there is now reason to believe that the level of normal penalties is likely to be lower with lower maximum penalties than that adopted under the 2005 Act. What I find most regrettable about this is that we are now sending a signal of ambiguity in terms of the implementation of the criminal level in the 2005 Act. It is correct, as the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen pointed out in his last post, that there are some bright heads in the Ministry of Justice. And that this has not been taken into account in the budgets since the adoption of the Penal Code in 2005, is a trick that is hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2557	I'm not going to draw the debate any further, because I've actually received an answer to the important question, and it goes to the answer I got from the Council of State during the change of line. It is easy for the government, unfortunately, not to implement what the Stortinge agreed a year ago, and what the Stortinge also agreed on in a new round of a representative proposal that has been discussed. It is estimated that the 2005 Act and the penalties laid down there would be implemented. When that answer is that simple, I think that the defense that the position has created becomes a little bit strange, because you accept that that's the situation. So the Council of State allows itself to say that today there is an important mark with the decisions taken to increase the penalties and that we are almost facing a time gap today. No, it was last year, and the repetition made by the Stortinge in connection with the proposal from the Right. But then it's like that, with regard to the important marking and the time separation that happened last year – and once again in the Stortinget – actually parts of this are reversed today, or not reversed, but withdrawn in time, because you think that the minimum penalty will then be repaired for what you can't do today because of economic circumstances. To be honest, I think that the opposition and the Council of State should actually admit. Now I see that the Council of State is going to make an post afterwards. I record that the Council of State is concerned about the impression given in the debate in public space, because it's almost made a picture that we're not increasing, or tightening, the penalties at all. But shouldn't the Council of State take some of that criticism itself through – excuse me for saying – being as tall and dark as both the undersigned and the Council of State were because we succeeded so well a year ago with the decision we made? Then we have managed to give the impression that the punishments should now be tightened up, and we have been very bitter about it, especially in the election campaign, where I had a debate with the Council of State as well. So here we've helped ourselves, and maybe it's time to be a little humble, too, in view of the fact that you've helped yourself to create the impression that important tightening of penalties is almost at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2568	After such a debate on the level of penalties, one can consider what kind of impressions are attached. In addition to being made as tall and dark, I could imagine that an impression that sticks to the population is that there is a significant criminal intensification. I think it is a step forward that it has been made clear on the right hand side of the Progress Party in the debate and that we are united on it. It would be quite difficult to say that what Stortinget is doing today has no significance for Norwegian punishment. It would seem undermining how we view our own role. So we're going to make significant increases in terms of, for example: Raped, not just by increasing the minimum penalty, but by looking at the penalty framework, and we state very concretely in the proposition what kind of punishment you see. It is a level of punishment which I warmly welcome, and which I think it is good to come into force quickly. There is a minimum sentence and a level of penalties for sexual abuse of children — which has not been discussed against the special provisions of this round — sexual intercourse with children, abuse in close relations when at least the first part of the provision applies. So I think that it's like some of us believe in the fact that last year's Biggest thing, clearly stating cases and levels of punishment, has an impact on the criminal investigation. I am convinced that the effect of this will also be seen in the future. That's why it's up to me to get out of the whole debate as a conclusion to the concrete penalty framework you're facing, the total penalty. However, we are in a lower position in terms of criminal law enforcement tradition in Norway — less than half, often — so that we have a little to go on before we break the upper penalty framework. Going down from eight to six years on two of the provisions does not help to weaken the signs of criminal atrocities for the specifically identified culprits. Then the case rapporteur, Kielland Asmyhr, withdraws that I should at any time have said that the Progress Party should be against the minimum penalty. I can't remember saying that in my post. I mean, I didn't say that. I believe that the minimum penalty on some occasions, like here when you raise the minimum penalty, is actually one of many important instruments to raise the level of penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2577	The leading point in this case is what kind of procedure you have in the government, the ministry, and what information you provide to the Stortinget. Now there's a debate here about who has promised the most in terms of punishment. I'm sure we can keep doing that. But not at one point, however, the Council of State, which is constitutionally responsible to everyone sitting in this room, or perhaps not sitting here right now, but at least to the Storting as an organ – not individuals, party groups, fractions, or whatever it may be – admits something. I really think that it would have been a little dressed if you could admit that this process that has been involved in the processing of this law up until now is not according to what the Storting as an organ should expect. This is not primarily about the fact that there is no criminal force on our part, it is, after all, all we have taken the initiative to bring about this law. But when we're going to adopt a law, and the council should know very well that this is not a satisfactory craft, it would have been possible to come up with two sentences in addition to self-confidence and say something about the procedures you have in the ministry, what you intend to do in the future, so that this way of dealing with laws will not become the usual. On behalf of the Right, I really hope that this is not the way we're going to deal with as serious issues as criminal law. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say quite concretely whether he, as the top minister of justice, has at all intended to deal with the glitch that must have been guaranteed, when one is not familiar with what is termed "small procedural things" in today's evening post, which is something quite different, namely that one cannot follow up the decision of the Storting because one cannot assess the consequences of one's own legislative proposals. We've seen it before. At the budgetary procedure, it was unknown to the Stortinget that almost 200 million were to be withdrawn. kr from police operating budgets. No one said anything about when you were going to deal with the budget. It would have been a good idea to know that there was something in the order of magnitude, because it means that the entire budgetary process, the whole budgetary process – just like this – almost becomes a hopeless affair for those parties that do not happen to be present at the fractional meetings of the red-greens. Governments have a job to do in terms of information work for Stortinget, so information work is more than informing the media about the high levels of thought they have. A lot is done well – that’s not what it’s about for us today. What it's all about is what you've been going to do to make sure that the legal process in the future is of a far different quality than what we've been presented through the last month's work in the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2591	Now the representative Dahl brings up the question of budgetary disposals, and I must respectfully say that in terms of the budgetary disposals, I believe that the disposals that have now been made are absolutely in line with both the leaders of the Storting and insofar as the provisions that apply between the accumulation and the government. Now it's a little unclear to me how relevant it is to the level of criminal prosecution in terms of violent crimes, but if you think in particular about the question of the police being upgraded in terms of ICT, I'd say that both the Stortinget, the representative Dahl and others have received significant information about the need for it, and that you actually have to do it. Then I have to say that much of the legal work done in connection with new criminal legislation in Norway – both in the general area and in the specific area – has been a very good legal work, but with regard to these two provisions, the change that is now in existence has been chosen. I think it's been followed by good information to the committee about why you're doing it, and what you've actually done. I'd rather say it so that it would be a lot worse if you didn't, and that you actually took the consequences of it. As long as one ensures that the intentions of criminal law enforcement are also completed in the relevant offences, I cannot see that making changes to the criminal framework itself that are relevant to procedural effects — whether it should go too far in law or not — would have any bearing on what has been the responsibility of a majority in the United Kingdom to do something, that is, to increase the level of penalties. As long as you get there, I think it's crucial in these matters. So I would like to say that with regard to the very question of the process and the process of criminal proceedings, in the future, the Storting will have ample opportunity to influence it, too, as there will be future discussions, especially in the wake of the reduced sample to deal with the issue of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2600	I became quite sad after the last speech of the Council of State, because I had expected that the Council of State could now, after this debate, have been so humble that he came to the opposition in Stortinget somewhat in terms of the criticism that we have expressed, of the proceedings in this matter. It is such that I believe that normally, a matter of the quality that the Council of State Storberget put forward in Prop. 97 L, have been sent back to the government. But now we're approaching the Grand Britain's non-meeting period, and everyone wants to get up the penalty level by increasing the minimum penalties, and you've specified a normal level of punishment. But the matter itself is of very poor quality, and Stortinget has quite a number of questions, which we have not received an answer to here today. I shall not say so much about the committee's proceedings, but it has been stated during the committee's proceedings that this has been very unsatisfactory. So the Council of State says this has to do with budgetary issues. Yes, that's right, but in every case of law, it's a chapter with budgetary and administrative implications. There the Council of State should have given a much more thorough explanation of the budgetary implications, because it was only after the committee received a letter from the lawmen and then asked a question to the Council of State that the Council of State replied that yes, this would probably have a few more consequences than what had been explained in the matter. So it's not the committee – or the opposition – that has not done its job here. It is the Council of State that has put forward a piece of work, and I think the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has been the closest to meeting the inside animal here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2609	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2612	The background to me mentioning the information given during the budgetary procedure, on police coverage, is that it begins to merge into a pattern where you confuse press releases with information to the Stortinget. We have to deal with what's being said in the media, what's coming from promises in ten-point plans in press releases, not formal documents for Stortinget. There will be a bill presented in the media, and it will be seen as a full follow-up to what the Right has demanded, and what the Storting has adopted with regard to the relevant criminal order. Everyone takes it for granted, and there's not a single word that this is not a direct follow-up to the Storting decision. For various reasons, then, the Committee begins to dig on the initiative of the Right Party and the Advance Party. What I fear, is that if we hadn't done that, this law had just slipped through, because it hadn't been discovered. That's why the Right wants to know what you're going to do in the Ministry to make sure that this kind of process doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2619	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3832]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2635	Today, the litter should be treated with Prop. 116 L where the government proposes some amendments to the Court Act to ensure that the courts have a sufficient number of co-judgments and laity judges available. Today, these members are elected by the municipality for four years at a time and new elections are not scheduled to take place before the autumn of 2012. As amended by the 2007 Law of the Court of Justice, more and more laypeople are now seeking exemption from individual cases, for longer periods or lastingly by being deleted from the sample. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that there is now a real need for more members of the committees. It is therefore an overall committee which supports the Government's proposal for a new statute so that, during the term of office, the President of the Court of Justice may decide that exceptional elections are to be held. This will lead to a more flexible system ensuring that the courts have access to the lessons they may need, and the Committee also supports the other amendments proposed by the Court of Justice. In addition, amendments to the penal code 1902 § 139, which deals with the obligation to avert serious criminal offences, are proposed. In the context of the 2005 Penal Code, the abolition obligation was reinforced and expanded, but, as we are all aware of, especially after the previous debate, it will take some time before the new penal code enters into force. Therefore, there is already a need to make changes to the penal code in 1902. With this bill, we are strengthening the abolition obligation with immediate effect. Today, it is necessary to be sure that a serious criminal offence will occur, in order to be obliged to report it. But with this bill, it's enough to think that the most likely thing is going to be serious criminal acts. In particular, the debate on violence and the killing of children has shown us that it is urgent. VG's statement that 33 children under the age of 15 have been killed or abused to death in the last ten years gives us all a cruel reminder that we can always do more to protect children. Then we should not forget that there are large numbers of people — children who live with a care failure in an entire childhood, children who are abused by people they trust, or women and children who are abused in their own homes. Therefore, it is important that we now extend the abolition obligation to deal with sexual acts against children, all violence in close relationships and abuse of overpower. Work on violence against children and violence in close relationships has been one of the main areas of activity of this government. In recent years, we have done a lot in the fight against violence and abuse. Penalties are getting more severe, we have established children's homes in all regions, and there are family violence coordinators in all police districts responsible for violence in close relations and sexual abuse. We politicians can and should do everything we can to prevent anyone from being subjected to violence and abuse. But as an individual, we also have a duty to see the children around us, to make contact with child protection, police or auxiliaries if we are concerned that a child may be subjected to violence, assault or care failure. It is important that we care, and it is important that we warn when we are concerned or afraid that something illegal is happening. Although this government, with broad support in Stortinget, has put in place many good measures to help children, we should always remember that we can do more. We all have a responsibility to ensure that all children have a safe childhood, and with this bill, we strengthen and strengthen the abolition obligation – just to provide for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2658	What does little Selma do when she is beaten up by her father? Probably nothing. She doesn't know where or how to ask for help. She's given up on others, depending on adults around her responding. We all share a shared responsibility to see the children around us and to contact the child protection, the police or other auxiliary equipment if we are concerned that a child is subjected to violence or other forms of abuse. Those who work with children have an extra responsibility. Employees in kindergartens, schools and health centres are in a unique position to record signals from children who appear to be exposed to violence or other forms of abuse. Competence in this needs to be increased in those who work with children. Neighbors, people in the close family of children, people in the sports team and in the music village also have a responsibility. Health professionals are in a particularly favourable situation to detect child abuse. They have a moral and professional duty to report if they see that a child can be subjected to violence, has been subjected to violence or other abuses. Health professionals need to be better able to detect and report to child protection and the police. Last year I went to visit the doctor's in Oslo. It is the country's second-largest medical officer, but the number of concerns they sent to child protection the year before was far too low – unnaturally low. The same thing happened the year before that. There is reason to believe that the situation is not much better elsewhere in the country. Obviously, the procedures need to be tightened up. The medical profession has to take responsibility, and the medical management around the country has to set clear goals, then follow them up. I am pleased that the red-green government has put the work against violence and assault on children high on the agenda. We have established six children's homes in the last few years. The seventh comes this year. Children’s homes shall provide a comprehensive offer to children who are victims of violence or other abuses, including: court hearings and medical examinations. In June 2009, the alarm phone opened 116 111 for children to help children and young people who are victims of violence or other abuses. Today, we have adopted a new penal code, in which the penalties for killing, violence, sexual offences and violence in close relations are intensified. There are separate teams in the main police districts, responsible for violence in close relationships and sexual abuse. I believe to remember that there are now family violence coordinators in all police districts. Today, we adopt and strengthen and clarify the duty of all to avert serious crimes. After this, everyone has an obligation to contact the police or otherwise try to avert a serious criminal offence. In addition, the obligation is extended to cover all forms of sexual abuse against children, violence in close relationships and child abuse. I am proud to be part of the red-green majority on the Stortinget, who have systematically placed the legal security of the children on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2675	Pride knows no limits, so on behalf of the opposition and the Right I can be proud that this opposition has been hanging on to the government that complains, or whatever it may be, to make sure that the results that are good are, and the pressure that they are not quite as good results will hopefully get better. In this case, at least it is so that with a slightly different approach, I perceive that both the majority and the minority are concerned with the practice of the justice system. It's very delicious to say that word, because it's very much nicer than the previous word, the cheap substitute system, which was renamed. Even the Christian People's Party brought a little cheer from the family committee, so it must mean that we agree that it almost doesn't work! But to be absolutely sure, I take up the minority proposal in the setting, from the Advance Party and the Right, to give a friendly little hint that we might get it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2684	The President suspects that the representative Dahl was now in harm's way to comment on the matter that follows the one we are now discussing. In the matter we are now discussing, no minority proposals have been included. The consensus is broad, although there is some competition for who agrees the most on what is unanimous. I assume we'll come back to case number. 14 afterwards – if the representative did not intend to address a proposal in case No. 13?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2687	I can take it up afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2692	It's okay. And then we'll get back to that. We're going to be able to handle that. Is there any other person who wishes to speak on case No. 13? If not, the debate on substance. 13 is over. [[Fotation, see page 3834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2710	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2717	I thank you for having a test coordinator here in advance. The judicial compensation scheme is the sole remuneration scheme of the Stortinget. Today, when examining the 2009 annual report from the Justice and Home Affairs Committee, it is gratifying to record high levels of activity in 2009, but less than in the 2007 and 2008 record years. Throughout 2009, there have been three selections working on the justice systems. There is also reason to be satisfied that the civil law administration of the State has in all respects achieved its ambitious 12-month case-handling objectives. Today, according to the ordinary Rules of Procedure, selections are authorised to accept up to NOK 200000 on a case-by-case basis. If the selection finds that a seeker should be given a higher amount, the matter will be submitted to the Size department of the Ministry of Justice. So far there have been few things of this kind. The current mandate and amount limit of NOK 200000 was fixed and confirmed by the Stortinget in December 1996. In the light of price developments, the Committee considers that it is appropriate to assess whether the mandate limit should be adjusted. This has also been requested by the Grand Duchy's Justice Selection. Against this background, a Joint Committee would recommend that the limit of powers in the ordinary judicial remedy scheme be increased to NOK 250000, and would make proposals in line with this, where a government would consider this issue in the context of the 2011 State budget. I would like to make it clear that this does not mean that it is a matter of raising the level of remuneration, but rather of reducing the need to go to the Stortinge in the cases that today's mandate limit may be exceeded. Nor should it be understood that those who have already received a fee may be rescanted because the power limit may be raised. I point out that there is different understanding and interpretation in the selections when it relates to the practice of the justice system. A small minority in the selections think that practice was not in line with Stortinget's wish and will when St.meld. No 24 for 2004–2005 were available for treatment in 2005. It was after Selection III came into operation in 2008 that this discrepancy emerged. This was also the subject of the 2008 Annual Report, to which the Stortinget made a statement last December. The Committee is also aware that this discrepancy has been discussed with the President of the United Kingdom and the Presidency of the United Kingdom. It is difficult to decide on this dispute before a fundamental review of the judicial remedy system has been carried out, as requested by the Stortinget and the Presidentship of the Stortinge. The Committee looks forward to the government presenting such a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible. I'm aware that this is an extensive work, that it will take time, and that the question of joining more departments. However, we hope that this will not take too much time for those who may be potential applicants and recipients of the justice system. On this basis, I would recommend the setting from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2736	It was a short time ago that an excellent statement was made on this matter by the representative André Oktay Dahl. I can actually refer to the reason given in the previous case, and promote the proposal in the correct case. The previous case was about compulsory withdrawal – it should perhaps apply to the undersigned as well. But I can repeat what I said where it didn't belong, that I perceive that the Storting really is unanimous about the need for this total review. I take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to provide the small assistance it is for both the one and the other, that we are pressured to actually present a matter relatively quickly. Then this proposal was taken up in a not too late evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2748	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2751	The judicial compensation scheme is the Stortingen’s own scheme. As a result, many people who in childhood were subjected to injustice on the part of society are being reviled. This is the people the state was responsible for caring for. Instead, they were subjected to a lack of care, violence, and sexual assault. SV acknowledges that money – no matter what the amount – will never be able to give these people their childhood back. They can't buy a childhood full of joy and life. But through the justice system, society gives these people some retribution for the injustice they have suffered. On 12 December 1996, the Stortinget established the limit of jurisdiction for the provision of legal compensation. It's been years. The limit was set at NOK 200000. The selections have addressed this with the Storting, and SV agree that this limit should be adjusted. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous judicial committee is asking the government to consider increasing this amount. I look forward to the presentation of the budget in October. Several questions have been asked about the interpretation of the term of office of the Judicial Remuneration Committees as regards the groups covered by the Judicial Remuneration Scheme following the notification of St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005. Three members of the Judiciary Committees – May Hansen from SV, Bjørg Tørresdal from the Christian People's Party and Kari Kjønaas Kjos from the Progress Party – consider that a restriction of the special scheme to apply only to the children placed at the institutions covered by the Befring Committee's investigation is not in accordance with the Stortinge decision and decision. Furthermore, the same sample members believe that practices do not comply with the decision to raise children in the previous foster home. Several of these were self-representatives when these decisions were taken. It is therefore important to listen to them. SV has done a lot of work to get a fundamental review of the mandate, so that they, as they were supposed to get paid, get it. By 2009 at the latest, the Ministry was asked to provide a review to the Stortinget. This clarification is important for many people, and it is important for the Storting. Therefore, I would like to stress that SV is very impatient in this matter and would like the review to come to Stortinget as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2764	The justice system is designed to help compensate people who have been wronged — an injustice that cannot be fully compensated for by money, which others have been involved in. At the same time, there is an important system, which has also been widely agreed by the crossroads where the Storting has had various issues related to the treatment system. As regards the position of the Judicial Committee on the 2009 Annual Report, the views of the Christian People's Party on the comments of the Family and Culture Committee are set out in the vote. We are pleased that there is now going to be a case for the Storting, where the practice of today's justice system is being discussed. We are also committed to clarifying whether the scheme covers only children in the institutions covered by the mandate and distribution of the Befring Committee, or whether it covers all children in special schools, regardless of the location basis. The size must interpret the mandate of the justice committees as regards the types of groups covered by the new burden of proof and the form of treatment introduced after the treatment of St.meld by the Storting. No 24 for 2004-2005. It is also important to look at practices related to foster home children. There is no doubt that there are then specific evidence-related challenges that must also be relevant to the burden of proof. It is therefore important not to tighten up the practice of foster home children but to ensure that foster home children can be treated in the same way as orphans. The Christian People's Party also promoted last year our proposal relating to the inclusion of Norwegian schools abroad in the scheme. There is no doubt that there has also been an injustice against people who have been in institutions for which the State has had a certain responsibility. So we are very much looking forward to a review of that issue, and to considering whether special arrangements should be set up for new groups, including Norwegian schools abroad as part of such a review. The Christian People's Party will also support the proposal promoted by the minority in the vote when we come to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2797	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2806	The matter is therefore a proposal from the Progress Party on the social rights of foreign criminals. We have had good opportunity in previous cases here today to debate that punishment should be proportionate to the crime. It is a guiding principle behind all parties, and it is also a principle on which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has based its discussion of this matter. The equality of law shall be absolute, whether you are a Norwegian or a foreign national. On the right, we think it is commendable that the proposers, with their proposal, give the Storting the opportunity to focus on social rights as a result of reconciliation. A Joint Committee considers that, in the social systems, there should be no additional bonus related to compensation, in the same way as that relating to compensation should not be discriminated against as a penalty. That is the approach to this matter. The majority of the Judicial Committee also points out that rights acquired before remuneration shall be retained after remuneration. An overall committee has pointed out that, without lawful residence, foreign criminals shall not be granted social rights as a result of the compensation in itself. This discussion is balanced on the basis of the fact that neither bonuses nor unfair discrimination resulting from the punishment are to be paid. In the Committee's discussion, the Committee also takes note of the fact that, at the end of the last month, a proposal, Prop, was presented by the Ministry of Labour. 135 L, on amendments to the Law on Social Security relating to Incarceration. That proposal will, of course, affect some of the points contained in the proposal for a representative from the Progress Party and will give the Stortinget a good opportunity for yet another wide-ranging debate on this matter. The Judicial Committee has discussed several aspects of the impact of the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in its proposal. I mention issues such as health care under housing, general housing and compulsory employment and compensation under housing. In particular, the Committee has also discussed the issue of compensation transfers for convicted criminals of foreign origin, foreign nationals. The minority from the Right and the Advance Party point out that there is an impatience and dissatisfaction with the progress made on this issue and that we want faster progress, so that more convicted foreign nationals are given the opportunity to zone in their country of origin. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties, proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. On behalf of the Right and Advance Party, I address the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2827	The representative Anders B. Werp has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2830	Opener borders in Europe have been positive for development in most countries — including Norway. A more open labour market, a better understanding of each other's cultures and better cooperation are some of the positive aspects. But the medal also has a backside. We've had an increase in crime committed by foreign citizens. I can mention winning crimes, drug crime and trafficking in human beings. This gives our society, and especially the justice sector, great challenges. Both the police and the prosecution authorities, the courts, the criminal services and the foreign agencies have noticed the increase in crime committed by foreigners, simply because many come to Norway — both legally and illegally. Today it is approx. 20 pst. sentenced persons with foreign citizenship in Norwegian prisons. In addition, carefree foreigners come. This presents new and demanding challenges in our prisons. Employees sometimes report major problems with daily communication, which both lead to misunderstandings and conflicts. Language problems also lead to increased expenditure on interpreting services. This is a new everyday life that we have to deal with and handle in the best possible way. Proposalers believe that restricting the rights of non-residents in Norway will reduce the criminal activities of non-residents. The reasoning, as I understand the Progress Party, is that the loss of social rights for foreigners will make it less attractive to be a criminal in Norway. I believe that the Minister of Justice's letter to the Committee is very elucidating given who has access to what rights, and what the convictions can earn out of rights under restitution. In my view, it is natural, as the Minister of Justice does, to distinguish between two main groups of foreign nationals in this context: those who were members of the population before the detention took place, either because they were at work or were living in Norway, and those who have no connection with Norway other than the criminal activity and compensation here. The possibility for the first group to receive its own benefits during remuneration is very limited, but the compensation is considered to be service, unless an expulsion decision is taken. In the case of the second group, the ordinary members are not in popular security and do not have the same rights as the first group. The exception is that they have the right to health care. The Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, considers it reasonable to distinguish between these two groups for rights under remuneration. We all agree that foreign convictions without a residence permit should be returned to their country of origin as soon as possible. And I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is fully pressurised both to streamline the processing time in the transfer cases and to establish bilateral agreements with the most relevant countries, pending the entry into force of the EU framework decision on settlement transfer at the end of 2011. After I understand, such an agreement is already in place with Romania. With the exception of the Progress Party, the Committee shares the view that there must be Norwegian conditions to determine the design of criminal services in Norway. This majority suggests that Norwegian prisons reflect Norwegian society, and that daily life in our prisons is naturally different from those in countries with lower wealth levels. The right, together with the Progress Party, states that the design of settlement conditions for foreign criminals in Norway must be such that settlement conditions help to reduce the number of foreigners coming to the country in order to commit crime. I wonder what the Right Party and the Advance Party mean by this. Are they intended only for the social rights of criminals with and without legal residence in Norway, or do they also believe that the settlement conditions should be different from those offered in the Norwegian prisons today? Are we to interpret this comment to the point that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that foreigners are to be offered worse compensation than the Nordics have? I'm addressing a deepening of this from the Right Party and the Advance Party, as their comments allow for different interpretations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2858	This matter was up in the news – or to say so, it broke in the news – in January, and incidentally it was the same day that we had asked questions here in Stortinget. I remember that Storberget was asked about how he looked at this matter, which had then appeared in the media. It was quite clear that Storberget himself was not aware that the interpretation was different in the Ministry of Labour than in the Ministry of Justice. As the Progress Party promoted this proposal for a representative, it was intended to bring forward and make visible the interpretation of the legislation of the various departments in respect of pension credits and other rights for foreign criminals who are under acquittal in Norwegian prisons. Furthermore, the media also focused on how it was possible for foreign criminals to earn these rights without the Ministry of Justice and others knowing about this. Yeah, how's it going? If you intend to do criminal acts in Norway and go in to do this, you know at the same time that you should be taken, you actually have a better life in many areas than you might come from. One earns rights in relation to popular security, one gets daily allowance, which is actually two to three times more than one year’s wage in many of the countries from which these criminals come, you have bed, you have hot food, you have exclusive, you have TV, and so on. And to take the question that the representative Torve asked, if there should be a difference in the terms of compensation, you could say that when we know that 70 pst. As sons of the new Halden prison, criminals are foreigners who may not have to have rehabilitation and repatriation to Norwegian society, but who actually have a deportation decision on their own after an end of settlement, it goes without saying that they may have other atoning conditions than those given rehabilitation and other forms of offer in the various prisons. The Ministry of Labour's interpretation of the legislation is quoted from a press release: ‘Reconciliation in Norwegian prisons in accordance with a judgment of law is not to be regarded as an illegal residence. Persons with a judgment of 12 months or more would therefore be to be regarded as members of the public interest under the provisions of paragraphs 2 to 1 of the People’s Security Act.’;» Furthermore, we also see, as I said, that the daily allowance that the individual earns while he is sonning exceeds a normal annual income. I would like to quote from the letters of the Council of State, where the Directorate of Labour and Welfare itself has stated that: ‘the relevant group has been considered as ordinary members of the social security scheme in practice. However, the extent to which this has led to acknowledgment of benefits other than healthcare is unclear. However, the group is included in the public register and benefits may be granted to residents who have not been aware of the background of the public register.» For me, it is a cross of thought that one has not been aware of the interpretation that has taken place, and also that the Minister of Justice has not been aware that in this area within his field of competence, the borderline has not been visible to the individual's rights. It has been one of the most important areas in which the Progress Party and also the Right have focused, that one should have been aware of how that interpretation would affect the foreign criminals who would then have no rights. We have actually had a day today that has been in many of the areas dealt with by the Committee on Justice, both in terms of the settlement agreement and other areas in which we are concerned, and which we are going to affect in the future. But at least we see that the Minister of Justice has taken note of the thoughts that we have had, and the uncertain signals that have come from different departments. Finally, I just have to say that we expect the coordination that should have taken place to come in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2887	The welfare state is a fissure layer. It is based on the principle of ability to deliver and obtain as necessary. All those legally residing in Norway process rights, closely related to their obligations to be a member of the Norwegian community. Therefore, the Nordics retain these rights even when they have done something criminal and have to punish them in prison. A wide range of provisions on the withdrawal or reduction of benefits while staying in prison must be added. It's reasonable, and it's natural. However, it has never been intended that non-residents who come to Norway only to commit crime should be able to process social rights, for example: pension entitlements, while those in Norwegian prisons. Such legislative practices are, of course, not desirable. I therefore appreciate that the government has now started a work to clean up this. The Minister of Justice has explained this in detail in his letter of 16 April this year to the Committee. Then I heard that the representative Michaelsen strongly criticized the Council of State for not knowing that these rules were interpreted this way, and that these rules have been there. Then I can say that these rules have been public. Everyone could have seen them before, including the Advance Party. Of course, the Council of State has its constitutional responsibility for how they have been interpreted and used, but all of us could have seen that they are there. So putting too much responsibility for it on the Council of States was a little strange. Let me then take the opportunity to mark SV's abhorrence of the crime committed by organized criminal gangs who come to Norway one's trial for committing crime. Unfortunately, Europe's open borders have helped not only people with pure flour in their bags travel around, but also criminals abuse this freedom. I am pleased with the recent efforts of the Norwegian police to find and develop new methods and cooperation mechanisms across district borders to deal with the activities of the travelling criminals. An action that will deter this work is to send the criminals to their respective countries to zone there. I am pleased with the work that the government and the Minister of Justice have put down here, and I look forward to an increased transfer of the criminals to their country of origin, as the Minister of Justice has notified the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2902	At best, punishment should act as a preventive measure to prevent the convicted person from committing new offences, and not least to discourage others from doing illegal activities. We know it's not that simple. The causes of crime are many and complex. This is not necessarily a tougher punishment solution. At the same time, it is published in such a way that the atoning conditions do not have to be adjudicated to the law. Unfortunately, for some foreign criminals it is most tempting to sit in a Norwegian prison. I don't want to go so far as to say that there should be other reconciliation conditions and relationships for them, but it's a paradox that it is. It also creates great difficulties for those who work in prison to provide good compensation not only for those who are in debt from abroad, but also for those who are in prison, because it leads to another kind of environment in prison. I believe that the job done by the Minister of Justice to speed up the transfer of several foreign convictions without delay to atoning in own countries is unlikely to be important. It was probably more than I did that I stole for the first time a hearing that foreign criminals could earn pension points and social rights by sitting in Norwegian prisons. I believe that the massive reaction that was against this comes from the fact that this matter is far from reaching our perception of what is right and wrong in our welfare state and in our state of law. There shall be a link between the courts and duties, and it shall act fairly. I am satisfied with the answers given by the Minister of Justice in this matter. Actually, I think it's okay that we get to debate such issues, which in a way confirms once and for all that we have an uproar about the legal system that is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2915	The matter we are dealing with now, also had a foreplay earlier this year, in January in Question Time, which I think is very good. There the Christian People's Party took up, after a notice in the evening post, that if anyone came to Norway and committed crimes that led to prison for a year, they automatically became a member of the people's fear. It happened even if they came illegally to Norway. The paradox in the matter was that if they committed more serious crime, so that they got more than three years in prison, they would also be entitled to a basic pension from the age of 67. Well, look at the point, I'm going to say that it was kind of a sense of crime. The more serious it was, the more familiar you were. When we took this up, the Minister of Justice, who was in question, saw this, and he promised to take a clean-up. I was happy about that time. But it's not just the thing that's on the table here, which is the follow-up. It is also a matter that we have dealt with in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and there is also a matter for consideration, a proposition that goes on in the same way, in the public interest. I would like to say that an important follow-up to the case is to do something about the interpretation of popularism, who will get justice from the interpretation that the Ministry of Labour had and that the Ministry of Justice had. The Minister of Justice promised on behalf of himself and the Minister of Labour to carry out a clean-up. She has come in many ways. There was a previous document no. Eight proposals from the Progress Party of the Labour and Social Committee, which have just been put on the agenda. Now it was just enough tuned down. But the government has come up with a proposition that is being treated, and should be treated to the fall. Thus, much of the important thing in this area is treatment for the fall, and I am pleased about that. In addition, we also have the motion for a resolution No 8 here. The Christian People's Party believes that today's representative proposals can be a good starting point for cleaning up other things in this field. We therefore support the proposal from the minority to provide a full overview of the kind of economic and social performance of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons and proposals for natural restraints in the performances that do not run counter to people's justice. In addition, we support the proposal to contribute to these people's being able to impose penalties in their home country when buying shelters. An assessment should also be made of the timing of the interception of the courts. I agree with others that it is natural for us to distinguish, as a basis for the assessment, between two groups of inmates: the foreign citizens who were members of the population before the loss of freedom took place, because they were in work or settled here in the country, and those who have no other connection to Norway than the criminal activity and soning here. The Christian People's Party will stress that for the first group, the statements made by it will be added to the family will initially continue as before. It is not reasonable to punish the family financially because of criminal acts done by one of the family members. I think it is important that we manage the combination of ensuring the necessary rights to health and reconciliation, and to avoid evading crime and having justice for foreign criminals who are fighting people's justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2938	The number of foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons is increasing. As of April 6, 2010, there were 2,430 prisoners, of whom 503 had foreign citizenship. And we also know that many of those in custody have a foreign background. As I have pointed out in my reply to the Justice Committee on 16 April, foreign prisoners are no uniform group. Some people want to join the population because they were working in Norway or living here before their insertion. In recent years, Norway has had high levels of labour immigration, and there will therefore be a relatively large group of persons with foreign citizenship who have acquired social security rights. According to the Minister of Labour's statement in preparing my reply to the Committee on Justice, this is a group that maintains its membership in public security under criminal law and is also partially protected under EEA rules. I note that the members of the Judicial Committee understand that this is a group of foreign prisoners who need to be assessed differently from foreign prisoners associated with Norway alone on the basis of criminal activity. It is therefore still the case that I fully agree with the representative, Ropstad, who also raised the matter in the Questionnaire, in his assessments about this. It has been my concern in contact with the Minister of Labour and also in the work we have done in the government with this. In this way, I have a fairly strong understanding of the responses that have come up against the process of re-establishing social rights under the law of popular security, when, in isolation, 'only' is here to zone. That is why I believe that the Ministry of Labour has now done so in the recent legislative proposal, Prop. 135 L for 2009–2010, also referred to by the representative Robstad, provides answers to many of the challenges, and the Stortinget actually has the opportunity to discuss that issue in the context of a legal case. The aim is to establish that membership of the population can under no circumstances be acquired by means of criminal proceedings alone. Persons who were members up to the compensation are initially maintaining membership, but here it is proposed that membership under penalty should not form the basis for calculating/admission of pensions when final expulsion decisions are taken. In such cases, it is proposed that the retirement of service will have an effect for the entire criminal execution period irrespective of the date of adoption of the expulsion decision. I have noticed in particular that the Committee is concerned that foreign prisoners receive daily pay during the criminal proceedings. Here it is important to clarify that this group of prisoners is subject to the same obligation of activity as others and that the daily allowance is a benefit for this purpose. This also refers to the fact that the daily allowance is intended to cover the needs of prisoners for necessary toilet supplies, kiosk goods, etc., and that the foreign prisoners relate to a Norwegian price level when they shop goods. And I have to say that I think there is a kind of benefit that puts in a completely different category than that of processing rights in Norwegian social security legislation. When it comes to buying prison places abroad, I'm going to be very short, but I just want to say that – I was saying – it's not on me! It is a very poor market for the purchase of prison sites. We have almost all the possibilities to see if we can increase the number of redemption transfers. We've managed to increase, and in that way had a six-fold increase in relation to the level of the previous government. But there's not so much to shout about, because the number is still low. That's why I think it's imperative that we use the contractual instruments that exist. In particular, it concerns the Council of Europe agreement and convention, and additional protocols, where it is possible to reject its own consent if there are expulsion decisions, but not least that we are now close to the EU in their work on the framework decision on settlement transfer, which will be very important in this work. Then you would get a simpler process. It would go faster, and one would have a mutual acceptance of each other's convictions that are not of the same nature, in the Council of Europe's Conventions and Additional Protocols. Norway is not a member of the EU, and it is not obvious that we will have an accession agreement to this effect. I have said earlier today to the European Committee that there are two issues that have been important to me when I have met foreign ministers of justice, as well as incoming and outgoing presidencies in the EU. The first is that we agree to the Prüm agreement. We've got that, and it's signed. The second has been in favour of the framework decision on compensation transfer. It's longer inside, I just have to admit it. There is a scepticism in some Member States about involving third countries in that type of contract work. But it does not prevent me from constantly addressing this, because I believe that there is a lot of the key, alongside the bilateral agreements, to get more reconciliation transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2959	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2963	I don't think we've rarely witnessed a case that ordinary people have felt has fought as much against the general sense of justice as this case. The ability of criminals to build up rights in a welfare society seems very strange. You can also ask yourself if Norwegian citizens would be able to do this in other countries. Nope. The letter to the Committee shall read as follows: ‘Any decisions which reveal that a pension has been granted solely on the basis of remuneration will be converted.’; That's good. But then you're going to write: ‘However, it is not assumed that there is sufficient reason to carry out a review in order to identify such cases, which in the event of such cases must be done manually.’ Does this mean that the Council of State can confirm that there will still be people in Norwegian prisons who will earn rights on the wrong basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2980	Now this bill is a matter for consideration in Stortinget. There is ample opportunity to influence the implementation of any future rules, so I do not want to pre-empt any of the proceedings to be carried out in Stortinget. I want to say from my point of view, since this is to another department, that it is important that we now have clear rules on this. I think part of the basis for this coming up on a part of us – because it did, I just have to admit – is that someone has chosen to interpret the legislation in the way it has actually done in this case. It carries a fault in place, and therefore it is necessary to prepare it. But I would also like to think that it is important that the recordings that are now coming, among other things. by the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, who is also seeking to make the most of it, will be of particular importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2987	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e2992	I think the issue we are dealing with today, is just part of more and more issues that the Storting will get to deal with as major challenges in the future. Earlier today, we have discussed coordination between Norway and the EU in asylum and refugee policy, which the Progress Party would like to welcome, and probably many of these issues will also emerge in retrospect. There are two groups of different challenges in this case – we agree. But I don't think we should in any way rule out that also Group A is going to be a challenge, where we have to have a national policy that might stand out from it in the rest of Europe. As the Council of State itself pointed out, today we have been briefed on the framework decisions and this with the provision of compensation. I think it's an important area in terms of benefits to criminal foreigners in Norway. It's a key, I think, for us to succeed much more. In particular, what is going on in administrative or expulsion decisions is becoming important in the evolution we are witnessing now. Because there are still many things, including in the letter from the Council of State, that only give us new questions, new challenges, and there is actually one thing in the Justice Committee now that goes on with this with the reconciliation of foreign criminals. I record that there are people who have challenged both the Advance Party and the Right in what we think about alternative compensation for foreign criminals. I'm not afraid to say that we have to go in such a direction. Today we have the opposite. The new prison in Halden is now filled with foreign criminals. It's a three-phase prison, to rehabilitate and get Norwegian prisoners into the open society in a good way. We have a situation – which is also mentioned in the press today – where our custody places are filled with foreign criminals, while ethnic Norwegians have to sit on smooth cell far beyond what the law says. So I think we have to look at alternative compensations for foreign criminals. In fact, that is what the government is doing, and agrees with the Progress Party, when it seeks to make a living in the country of origin – if you do not intend to build settlements in Romania with Norwegian standards, then there will be differences in the terms of settlement. I just want to finally signal that the matter has not been concluded. We have major challenges that the Progress Party will continue to follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3003	The representative Torve requested a clarification from the Right around the comment on the reconciliation conditions. Right does not believe that there is anyone who wants to go to prison because of acquittals or because of the social rights that you might have to get there. But we cannot ignore the fact that the threshold for committing criminal acts can be lowered as a result of what many see as good atonement, and then we put the Right emphasis on, among other things. the economic conditions. I have explained that in an earlier article on the matter. I would also like to point out that from the Right we have tabled a proposal which is now being discussed in the Justice Committee, relating to organised crime, where one of the aspects of the proposal for a representative is to set up its own departments for foreign nationals in Norwegian prisons. It is one of the elements of nuances, for this is an important topic, among other things. to prevent the networking of Norwegian and foreign criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3010	The left is set to support all three points in the minority proposal in the case, but after hearing Per Sandberg argue for them, I need to argue for them in my own way. For the Left, it is important to treat people fairly, and that there is no different way to treat people – no matter what their background. But it's clear that the system we have today, where a person processes social rights as a member of the Norwegian welfare community, fundamentally violates people's sense of justice, that one can earn points in the system by doing criminal acts against the same system. So I think it's obvious that we need to clean up. And it's obvious that contributing to Norwegian society is not contributing to crime in Norwegian society. Nevertheless, we are very much in favour of building more shelters abroad. But have you ever visited a Russian prison? I'm against sending Norwegian prisoners to the Russian prisons. Many of the Eastern European prisons have a level that is such that I don't think we should send people there, for fundamental human rights reasons. But I believe that when we contribute to social projects, which we started under former Minister of Justice Dørum – we are working with Russia to raise the standards of prisons there – then I believe that it is possible to make clear demands to those countries that when we contribute to strengthening human rights and strengthening criminal justice in these countries, we must also be able to demand that they take prisoners back. And once they've reached a level that's within the human rights standards we set, I think it's important to press harder to get to these agreements. That's why we in the Left have said that maybe we should contribute through the aid projects we have to build prisons abroad that respect certain basic standards, and that we can then demand something back by getting our prisoners, criminals, who belong there on the basis of their citizenship. So we're still voting for all the points in the proposal, despite Per Sandberg's argument. We have a clear left-liberal argument behind it, which makes us think we have the meaning of the three points in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3021	When this case came in the evening mail and on the morning news in January, it was a bomb that went off. I think it is good that the Council of State is so honest to admit that it was also for those who should have had knowledge of this. A few years ago, I had a conversation with the then director of Ullersmo County Prison, which is close to where I live, and this director said that he would try to release an African prisoner in good time before his atoning time was over, for he had behaved himself exemplaryly in prison. But he refused to let himself be released, because with the daily allowance he earned in Norwegian prison, he was born a whole village in Africa. It says something about what differences we have in the world – and there's another debate. But it is clear that we need to dry up the debate on what kind of settlements foreign criminals should have in Norwegian prisons. Because when it comes to day money in Norwegian prison receiving income that is respected in other countries, it is clear that it can be attractive. In addition, when you are a non-resident, you are entitled to the family that lives in Romania, for example: health services, child welfare, etc., are more than the Progress Party and the Right should respond to policies that make Norway a very attractive place for criminals. I think most people out there in the community are asking questions about why you should be able to earn rights in the fear of the people at all when you're in prison. You've broken the important social contract by breaking the laws of the country, and then you have to take the consequences. So here it is said that we cannot send foreign criminals back to countries where there is lower prison standards than what we have here in Norway. Then my question is, where can we even send back foreign criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3036	I feel that the Storting is very much in common about assessments of the rules of the People's Security Act, and I hope that we get a good process. I'm going to do what I can to contribute to it, but now the matter is here in Stortinget. But I want to end this day and this debate by saying that I actually believe that the representative Sandberg mentioned in his post is very important, in the sense that getting pressure on a reconciliation transfer would really help us in this. I have little faith in the purchase of prison places abroad as buying other goods. But if the purchase involves what Trine Skei Grande has to say, I believe that it is a strategy that not only started under former Minister of Justice Dørum, but that has largely continued, in the sense that projects are being run in other countries to improve prison standards. The Russian prison project is a very good example. I've been to a Russian prison, i.e. I've visited a bad one, and I've visited a better one, and I see that it helps to go in with that kind of tools. I believe in linking it – that is, cooperation between Norwegian and Romanian authorities, for example. – towards prison, making use of the EEA funding mechanism against this, and that is why I have initiated it. I believe that there may be something at the bottom of the bilateral agreements that Norway can conclude to strengthen the possibility of speeding up settlement transfers. I would also like to say that we have to dry down or think about how we treat a good deal of the foreign criminals who are convicted in Norway. It will challenge us on capacity – it does today, and it will do so in the future. Swallowing if we now see a lot of the foreign profit crime going down, this will be a big challenge. And I believe that there we have to think about alternative, as the representative Sandberg was talking about. It is not certain that you will necessarily have foreign departments, but I believe that we should be open to assessment. I also believe that alternative responses and the use of criminal instruments should be considered against the more civil instruments we have in the law on foreigners, that is. e.g. do not release samples until it is absolutely certain that the return will be carried out. Then I even – I say that a little bit like that on a private keel, but it's a high thought, to say it like that – consider being able to release something before, if you ensure that he returns. But these are measures that I hope we will be able to return to the Stortingen in the autumn. I warn you that this is working with the government now to look at alternative options. But what must always be at the bottom, even when in many ways pressure is the most, is that human rights standards must be maintained. It's people we're dealing with, and nothing else, and it requires it to be the standard of it no matter where people come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3047	It was not the state council posts that made me draw, because I was very happy with what he said, and I very much agree with his thoughts on this. But it was the representative of Kielland Asmyhr who made me draw, because he said that if we are to demand Norwegian standard anywhere in the world, where are we going to send people? I believe that is a slightly insightful statement. It is a very large spectrum from the new Norwegian prison in Halden to the worst prisons in Russia. There's a spectrum that makes me want to encourage the representative Kielland Asmyhr to maybe take a little study trip and experience it. For the pictures we have received from e.g. Congo or South America recently, with Norwegians arrested in those places, is not in any way as bad as much of what I've seen in Eastern Europe. I've actually seen prisons in India that have been considerably better than many of those I've seen in Eastern Europe. And these are the countries most criminals here are from. I believe that we need to set some minimum standards for criminal justice in the countries to which we are actually sending back. Clearly, we do not set standards related to our goal, such as: new Norwegian prisons, such as Halden, but we set some standards, such as the basic enforcement of fundamental human rights – some of these levels should be at the bottom before sending people to settlements in other countries. I think that improving reconciliation, making demands on it, and other things that we can contribute to, will mean that we can both improve criminal justice in the countries we are talking about, and at the same time make people zone in their own country. For the goal must be that everyone should zone in the country from which they come – that may be the goal we set ourselves. This would have done a lot for both the criminal services in Norway and the criminal services in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3058	I like better that the council thinks loud, as we witnessed here, because here I think the council signals something very important and positive. Without the government giving a 100 pst. I feel that at least the Council of State is following up well in terms of the settlement conditions relating to automatic transmission, etc. Then I think it's a little funny that the Norwegian left-liberalist party with the least upturn in Europe believes that others have little insight into what they're talking about. However, I note that the Progress Party has substantial support in left-liberalist parties in other countries in Europe which have both 10, 20 and 30 pst. digestion. It'll take some time before the Norwegian left-liberalist party Left understands it, but they'll probably be a little bit wiser for every time they take the word. As far as day money is concerned, it is a challenge. I am generally skeptical that cash should be paid out in a prison, also to others who are punishing in Norway. But in the case of foreign criminals, you can simply solve it if you're talking about having to have a daily allowance based on an activity obligation in order to get sanitary equipment, etc. You can sort that out by simply getting this without getting any cash. Because there's no doubt, as many people have been involved here, that the cash flow that in our ears sounds very small, NOK 56 a day, for many of the foreign criminals make up a payment over the average wage paid by industrial workers in their country of origin. Then it's like we don't necessarily attract criminals, but we attract people who seek income to support their family, and who indirectly become criminals because of it. I am not so sure that anyone who comes to Norway from Romania and other countries who ends up in gangs and commits criminal acts does so because they are basically criminals. They're just doing it out of trouble and bad social conditions in their home country. That's why, when we have the kind of magnets that settlement conditions in Norway are, we're involved in creating criminals. It should also be part of the debate. There is no doubt, I fully agree on this with healthcare. But it must be possible to think in other ways about the benefits provided in Norwegian prisons. And it's clear that I'm becoming very skeptical when I hear that you might consider starting to build prisons with Norwegian standards in other countries. Then you are at least on the wrong course, and at least it will be defensive in terms of stopping that kind of import of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3069	It was Mr. Skei Grande's speech that made me take the floor. First, I would like to say that I think the posts of the Council of State were very good. We look forward to the government bringing such a case to Stortinget, so that we can make some major changes to the settlements that foreign criminals are going to have in Norwegian prisons. The representative Skei Grande's posts were not to be misunderstood. So she asked me to take a study trip to Russia to see the Russian standard. Then I can confirm that I have been on a number of study trips to Russia for the past five years as a major representative. I've been all over the country and got a good look at how the Russian standard is. The average standard in Russia is much lower than the Norwegian standard of living, and it is also reflected in the prison standard. It is natural that this is linked. I would believe that the representative Skei Grande would probably stand up to live in an average, normal Russian apartment. It is at a significantly lower level than the housing ratio I would like to adopt by the representative Skei Grande in Norway. For this reason, it would be entirely Galimatias if Norway were now to require the Norwegian standard for foreign criminals who are returned to their country of origin. I would like to follow closely the forthcoming budget proposals from the Left Party to see how much the party spends building high-standard prisons in all the countries from which we have foreign criminals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3081	The representative, Skei Grande, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3084	I can tell you that the left has not held any main post, but I will handle this in one minute. The representative Kielland Asmyhr and the representative Per Sandberg put both words in my mouth that I have not said. I've never said "high standard". I have never said the words «Norwegian relations». I have said ‘human rights’. If it is difficult for the Progress Party to accept, they have not understood much of what a prison stay is. Of course, there are no standards similar to Norwegian construction. But what about represals, what about punishment, what about the way you use closed prisons? Are the common human rights that we believe prisoners have also being enforced? Has the representative Kielland Asmyhr looked at anything but the mursing when he has been there? It's not the murpus I'm talking about. I'm talking about basic human rights that prisoners also have. It's about punishment methods and isolate use that I don't think we can respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3093	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 3835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3101	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3241	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3251	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3326	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3336	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3515	It is contested in the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3529	It shall be weighed over the rest of I and above II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3539	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3549	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3567	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the laws and regulations to facilitate the processing of the right to parental leave in cases where mother is unfit for work.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3584	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that both parents’ rights to parental leave are respected in the event of a broken life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3599	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full evaluation and revision of the parental leave scheme in order to make it easier to deal with and more flexible.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the laws and regulations so that it becomes up to the individual parent to allocate the parental leave between them, as well as proposals for father to process the right to parental leave on an independent basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3747	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3757	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3760	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3767	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 is included on page 29 of the vote, while proposal No. 5 is distributed in the hall. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 5. by the Progress Party, converted into a transmission proposal, and they will be amended in line with that. Proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, then, in amended form, says: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure that foreign stations establish appropriate arrangements for return visits in respect of visas, so that a more liberal visa practice can be established in countries with high emigration potential.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, in amended form reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government return with its own case to the Storting on the role-sharing between the police and UDI in the handling of foreign affairs in the future.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3815	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e3833	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4466	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4476	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4519	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4529	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4536	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party The President will start by voting on the proposals. One, two, three, four from the Progress Party and the Right. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they support the proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In the Criminal Act of 22 May 1902 no. Paragraph 195, first sentence of the first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: He who has sexual relations with children under 14 years of age shall be punished with imprisonment up to 15 years of age.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the Criminal Act of 22 May 1902 no. Paragraphs 219 of the first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: anyone who, by threatening, forcing, restricting the freedom of movement, perpetrating violence against, or otherwise perpetrating, gross or repeated abuse of his/her current or previous spouse, his/her relative in the straight line descending line, his/her relative in the straight line ascending line, someone in his/her household, or someone in his/her care shall be punished with imprisonment for up to 6 years. If the abuse is serious or insulted as a result of the act dies or suffers significant damage to body or health, the sentence is imprisonment for up to 15 years. In determining whether the abuse is serious, particular attention shall be paid to whether it has been committed for a long time and whether there are any circumstances referred to in Section 232.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In the Criminal Act of 22 May 1902 no. Section 229 is replaced by the following: Any person harming another person in body or in health, or dedicating anyone in might, unconsciousness, or similar condition, or contributing to it shall be punished for bodily injury by imprisonment up to 6 years, but up to 8 years, if any sickness or disability exceeding 2 weeks, or if an incurable sound, defect or injury has been caused, and up to 10 years, if death or significant injury to the body or health has been suffered.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 15 December 1995 74 on the prohibition of sexual mutilation is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 1 is replaced by the following: Anyone who deliberately performs an intervention in a female sex organ which damages or causes permanent changes is penalised for sexual mutilation. The sentence is imprisonment for up to 6 years, but up to 8 years if the procedure is due to illness or incapacity for work lasting more than 2 weeks, or an incurable hearing, error or injury has been committed, and for up to 15 years if the procedure has resulted in death or significant damage to the body or health. Participation shall be penalised in the same way.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4611	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Penalty Act 20 May 2005 No 28 is amended as follows: Paragraph 281 is replaced by the following: With imprisonment for up to 6 years, it is punished as a grossly negligent cause of death for someone else.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4631	The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that, as the proposals have fallen, they will provide subsidiary support for the vote on these points.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4859	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e4869	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e5033	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e5043	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e5050	In the course of the debate, Mr Dahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As soon as possible, the Government requests the submission of an inquiry highlighting the consequences of extending the mandate of the sample, as reported in the annual report of the Trond Dolva selections and letter to the Presidentship of the Stortinge of 11 June 2009.’» The President notes that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e5091	During the debate, the representative Anders B. Werp put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-08.ana.ud2232e5175	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
