ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e47	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e56	The relatively large issue we are dealing with today has become so big primarily because it is a necessary clearing-up in the training law, then with consequences also for the private school law. The case concerns the legalisation of teaching aids, the right to expel students also for teachers, the parenting of private schools, the new language standard for textbooks, the change in the use of concepts in relation to the competence of those who take secondary education without obtaining professional or study qualifications, and the requirement for police certification at music and cultural schools is also introduced. The committee is united behind most of what we adopt today, so I expect that much of the debate will be about the points on which we disagree. That is why I think it is right that I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, should also make a little mention of the other points, and I expect the Council of State to do the same. Abduction of students is the first point. What the Storting is doing today is opening up for teachers to get permission from the municipality and the principal to expel students. So it is not that we decide that all Norwegian teachers should have that right, but that it should be left to the municipality and to the principals of each school. This will, of course, lead to more calm, order and discipline in school, something the Progress Party has always been concerned about. That's why we're happy that the government delivers at this point, which we've been busy with for a long time. In the case of parental cooperation in private schools, private schools are of such a nature that they differ slightly from public schools. I believe that the amendment of the law we are making today is unnecessary. However, we choose to support it with the rest of the committee. At least progress party policy is required for a police record. We proposed this in the previous period. It is clear that it is unreasonable that there should be other requirements for proof of good conduct at public schools than at the music and cultural schools as it has been in the past. So a little bit about what we disagree about, for example. this with the legalization of homework, to which the government adds. The majority, even on the civil side, believe that homework can be, and probably is, an active tool. But there are questions about two things. There are questions about resource use, and there are questions about who should manage the school. The letter of knowledge gave a serious reason why the State had to stop its involvement at the municipal border, and the municipality had to stop at the school gate, and that the various joints involved in Norwegian school were to be responsible within the school. What happens with today's decision is that the Council of State is sinking, both across the municipal border and through the school gate, and detailed management of Norwegian school in a way that the Progress Party and the other bourgeois parties seem to be somewhat strange and unfortunate. It is also strange that when you first choose to do this, you choose to do so without demanding that those who are going to practice this teaching aid have a pedagogical background. We are constantly hearing in the debates, including research, that the weakest students, who are probably the ones who intend to help with this decision, have the greatest benefit of having qualified educators to help them. We know that it is important to mobilise the municipalities in Norwegian school policy. Then I think when you first find out that you have half a billion to spend on this, it's strange that you deprive the municipalities of the right to influence how to dispose of these funds that you obviously found. I am absolutely sure that the municipalities had got more out of them. I think it is sad that we are now in a way breaking a little bit with the Knowledge promise, which we have agreed on, in terms of this detailed management. I also think it is strange that the majority chooses to legislate this today, despite the fact that we know relatively little about how it will work, for example. It would have been more useful to use these resources for homework in high school. Then to the voting. Now I'm talking on behalf of the Progress Party. I believe that the other civil parties will vote in the same way. In the case of § 13-7a of the Training Act and § 7-1e of the Private School Act, the Progress Party will vote against. We do not choose to vote against the third paragraph of Section 2-12 because it will make the debate and vote somewhat strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e79	The President allowed the President time beyond the speaking time to clarify the party's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e82	The rapporteur gave an excellent account of the points agreed by the Committee. After all, we are united on most of the legislative changes. However, as the rapporteur said, there is disagreement about the law-making of free homework on 1–4. steps. For the Workers' Party, teaching aids are important in order to balance social differences. We know that the school today is too bad for this, even though it has been a big focus of this government for the last five years on it. Providing free learning help can help balance social differences. So let's start at the lowest steps. This is in line with the strategy on early action for better learning. In time, there may be a need to introduce teaching aids even at higher levels. The working party is for homework. Even if we introduce homework, it doesn't mean that it's going to be over that students take the schoolwork home. In order to be good, you have to practice, for example. in the field of sport. Those who take part in this city's big recreational event, Bislett Games, which starts today, have gone to the sports team, but they have also practiced, trained and repeated when they come home. That's the same thing in school. You have to practice to get good. The design and use of homeworkers shall be reasonable. Lessons shall not be new, but practice and repetition of what has already been studied in the classroom. The lessons should also not be a disproportionate workload for students. Then they work against their purpose. After the lessons are done, it is important that the teachers follow up in the classroom, because the students need feedback about what they have done. Students have different starting points. Some people need more support than others. The school must have an offer for those who need extra help. That's why we're introducing homework for everyone. Lessons are an important part of cooperation between school and home. By giving students homework, the school involves parents in schoolwork. We know that parental involvement is a central factor in learning. It is important to clarify that, although many schools have already introduced teaching aids, it is only from the fall that all schools should introduce teaching aids at steps 1 to 4. The schools that I have visited, and that offer homework already, have students who are happy with this offer. They have the opportunity to finish a lot of schoolwork while they are at school and have parts of the afternoon off for various leisure activities. Those who want to be good, or who work a little extra in some subject, have to bring books home to practice. Although this is now legalised, municipalities are free to choose how they will organise the teaching aid – whether it is within the school leisure scheme, whether there are educators, whether the principal is to guide the offer and whether it is mandatory to report. Such questions are up to the municipalities themselves to find answers. The rapporteur made a very strong criticism of the question of the requirement for pedagogues. We have a difficult situation today, because there is a lack of teachers. It is important that teachers are in ordinary teaching and not in homework. Teachers have to go through a syllabus. Teaching aid is only help to train for schoolwork. It is a little special that we want students to bring schoolwork home, parents to help with it, because parents are not necessarily educators who can do this – but when homework is offered in school, there should be educators present. So this is up to the individual municipality to decide. It is also a little special that the opposition, even in comments, points out that homework is largely effective without pedagogues, cf. voluntary organisations, as pointed out by the Left in their comments. Finally, I would like to make some comments on the proposal to amend the training law so that the principal is given the opportunity to delegate the authority to the teachers to expel students from teaching. The background to this change is a debate that took place, especially in the Uppland County, at the end of the previous period, after the management of Gausdal secondary school decided to banish fighting students in order to give other students jobs. This practice was then contrary to the Training Act, and the school was repacked by the Education Directorate. The changes we are making today open up for teachers to expel students from one training session, or at most two hours. It can help create peace and order in the hours. If students are to be expelled for more than two hours, this must be done by the principal. Teachers do not have the authority to expel students from their colleagues' hours. I would like to make it clear that rejection as an instrument of order and order must be used cautiously and rarely. Students who are expelled may miss important instruction during time outside the classroom. The representative Espen Johnsen will explain the Workers' Party's view of thunder to and from the school leisure system for disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e105	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good review of the matter. Although the Right has given its support to large parts of the proposition, we disagree on one essential point with the government's proposal. It is not easy to understand that the government is coming to Stortinget with a law on homework without being willing to guarantee the quality of the offer. For those who are concerned with quality in school and for a minister of knowledge who has been involved in increasing teacher density in school, it is alarming to now be behind a 1–4 educational counselling service. years of unskilled and without the offer being based on pedagogical training of the principal. The reality is that the Minister of Knowledge is at the forefront of using law enforcement as an instrument for providing homework without providing qualified help to the students who want to use the offer. At least the government will not pay for it, and the frustration in many municipalities that are required to implement homework is in many places great. The municipalities that until now have used teachers, or want to use teachers, in their homework offer, have to take that extra charge themselves. It is claimed that school policy is in the process of being deideologicalised. I disagree. Although the Knowledge Lift brings together broad support, the struggle for quality in school stands every day. I believe that there is a clear distinction when it comes to the tools – how to create a better school, which balances differences, and which gives each student the opportunity to realize their abilities and talents. Early efforts have become a mantra, but a voluntary non-skilled counselling service must never – I repeat, never – be confused with compulsory schooling for all students under the direction of qualified teachers. If you are busy helping students who need it the most, a voluntary offer without qualified teachers is a very low level of success. If the government is concerned about equalising social differences, the law-making of voluntary counselling is a strange priority in the face of the many challenges facing the school. It has also been found that the government of the revised national budget has removed the subsidy for PCs, which is a very important tool for dyslexic children. So the government spends 178 million this year. kr for homework, while cutting 20 million. kr i revised for PC support for students with major learning difficulties – and tilts, then the grant is gone. It is totally unacceptable in the Right's view. Faced with this very unsocial cut, the knowledge minister on TV 2 replied last night that she had no comment on that. The government has turned the deaf ear to in the homework. A number of central hearing bodies have substantial objections to the proposal, but the government is running. There is serious doubt as to whether the offer will actually be made available to all, there are major questions about the use of unskilled trainers, and the government has not responded to how a number of practical conditions around the scheme should be handled. The proposal for a regulation which is pending has been submitted by the KS. The government will spend hundreds of millions of dollars on homework, without knowing whether the scheme will work properly, and so short of time homework has been tested that there is no research evidence on the effectiveness of such a scheme. It should have taken time to wait in time to get to the stage of legalizing the system. The right is positive that municipalities and schools that want to do so will facilitate homework after school. Guidance on homework can be a valuable addition to homework. But for the Right, it is obvious that you need local freedom to decide how to organise the offer, and at what years. The government's proposal is a pure overrun of municipalities and schools, which are the closest ones to know when homework should be provided, and how best to organise it to reach the maximum possible number of students. For the right, it is also important to stress that homework remains an important link between school and parents, and that school counselling is not a goodbye to home play. I am pleased that the representative Anna Ljunggren from the Workers' Party is also so clear in the lecture place in the school. In its alternative budgets, the right has earmarked resources to help with homework, pointing out that the need may well be as high in youth as in early school years. On the right we follow the votering scheme proposed by the representative Tord Lien. Otherwise, reference is made to the observations in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e128	It's nice to debate issues that bring Norwegian school forward. We are doing that today by what we are now discussing, and what we are going to adopt, namely homework. That the committee is not more unanimous behind this, I think it has something to do with the work of the big business committee. Now we know that the position and opposition meet more to inform each other about their positions. Had we met to develop policies together, I am sure that we had become much more united than the setting here bears the mark. There's some of the resistance from the opposition that almost seems a bit ritual – an opposition that, by the way, is interestingly disagreeable at many points. When even the Christian People's Party writes: ‘This member will stress that teaching aid is an important voluntary measure for many pupils’. then the distance between us, or the resistance to the ministry, should not be so great. It's also interesting that some of the criticisms from the opposition are actually of the kind: we want more of this. This should be stronger, this should be better. The installation from Aspaker was a very good example of that. The setting states that it is worrying that this ‘not to be manned by pedagogues’. That's interesting. In that case, the towing aid shall be extended; it shall not be abolished. Otherwise, it's a little strange, as Anna Ljunggren was saying, that the ideal for the right is parents and non-governmental organisations. Then it's very good, this is going on with homework, then we're helping kids in a very good way, but it's going to be an abomination, it's going to be a storage, when we put skilled workers into doing the same within a system that's organizationally organized by educators. That is what is in the proposal. The opposition also says that ‘youth should be made available’, at least the Right Party and the Advance Party say so. That's interesting. Here you want more, not less, of what we're proposing. The same applies to the comments of the Education Association. They will primarily have the teaching aid provided as part of ordinary primary school education, with qualified teachers, because they stress that in Norway we have fewer school hours at the nursery, especially between 1 and 4. year stage, than the average in OECD countries. Then it's interesting to read the criticism from the Left and Christian People's Party, which almost sneezes over and writes a little contemptuously that it looks like «several hours are the only answer of this government». Perhaps with several hours it's not that high-pitched? KS, too, really welcomes this reform. They say – and write – very clearly that they welcome a municipal responsibility for homework. They say something like this doesn't have to replace the SFO, they argue that it should come as an addition. And the comments in the case of dandruff are that you want this to be recorded as an important activity that should reach as much as possible, and then you should connect the right of use to actually first accept the voluntary offer, and then go home. So this is also a comment that says yes, thank you, this is good, but we want even more of that. This is something that SV really appreciates, of course – first of all, most, all in all, welcome this, and that the main gravity of the comments, also partly from the opposition, is the type, as I have said before: more, thank you, and better, thank you. Then probably most people have realized that this will come, not least because children and parents want it. If you go into Facebook, there's a group of 80,000 members who, through membership and posts, welcome this very much, you're very interested in being put into practice. So we're moving, towards a longer, more diverse, more educationally creative and thus learningly better school. That's good! Now it's not the big project we're going to adopt here today, but we're going to adopt something that definitely carries us in the right direction. So a few comments in the end about some of the contrast that comes from the opposition – in addition to what I have said. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, Take this with municipal autonomy: On the one hand – and Aspaker’s posts went very much on it – there is great frustration that the municipality itself will not be able to decide any more. Now there's a lot of municipal freedom in what's going on here, and it's going to be very exciting to see how this is being implemented. It is certainly implemented in different ways. On the other hand, the opposition says that it is absolutely reprehensible that we do not legislate that it should be the principal who is to direct this. How can this vote be? On the one hand, we override the municipality, and on the other hand, it is unfortunate that we do not override it any more. An interesting point at the end about this with parental involvement: if it is the case that a parent is totally dependent on lessons in order for parents to have a relationship with the school – do we also have to introduce lessons in kindergarten in order to have parental participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e159	The rapporteur said that the debate would be about homework, and we already hear that it does. That is why I want to focus on what we actually agree on today. I will take that as a starting point, because I believe that the changes we agree on deserve attention and should not be overlooked in silence. Wide agreement on important improvements in the law affecting important groups should not drown in a disagreement on how to provide voluntary learning assistance for 1st to 4th grades. Everyone who cares about school is concerned about good learning conditions. A good learning environment is a premise for learning. The good teacher depends on having competence and authority. A tool for delegating authority and providing students with a good learning environment is to give teachers the right to dismiss students who are too late or who interfere with their teaching. When surveys carried out in Norwegian classrooms tell that much time is spent playing before the students settle in the classroom so that the teaching can begin, it is necessary to ensure that teachers have the skills to remain calm, but also the authority to punish those who interfere with the teaching. This is a matter that the Central Party's former depositor from Uppland, Inger Enger, raised after a recording from Gausdal High School. Last year the matter raised a fairly high-sounding debate, and it has stopped with the bill. The debate has highlighted the legal certainty of students as an argument that only the principal should have access to disfellowshipping. Let me therefore stress that the authority to expel students should continue to be attached to the principal, and that this change of rules should only apply to up to two of the teachers in question. This gives you the opportunity to participate for the rest of the day if you have had a bad start. The Committee also agrees on another matter which means a great deal to each family with children with disabilities. So to say all the hearing bodies support the proposal. There are now many schools that offer SFOs both before and after school, but many families with disabled children feel bound to take advantage of the free school skyscrapers organised in connection with the school day itself. With this amendment, disabled children can now more easily participate in the SFO in the same way as in functional health. The centre party is pleased that this offer is now coming. The report from Rambøll, which is one of the reasons for the legal work, shows that free shooting to and from the SFO will lead to more parents of disabled children being able to work full-time, and that is very good. The Committee has also agreed to change the name «lower-level competence» to «basic competence». This is apparently not a strange matter, but it is a very important clarification. All the teachers I've been talking to have, without exception, molested using the term «lower-level competence», which indicates a low-level education. Higher education today leads to either lower-level study skills, professional competences or lower-level competences — we hear that it sounds a little strange. If you are unable to gain study or professional competence, it is important to value a basic competence. As we can read from the hearing opinions, inter alia: this type of competence is sought in the labour market. Having evidence of acquired basic competence is a better name than «lower-level competence». Let me stress that information for both schools and businesses is important to make the new name known. I would like to comment briefly on the disagreement in the Committee on Voluntary Educational Assistance – whether to offer this, who will be in charge of assistance and challenges related to shooting. However, we agree that helping lessons for many students can work socially evenly. So this is not a debate for or against homework. All parties point out that it is important that parents engage in children’s schooling, and that lessons given in a good way — as a rehearsal and exercise of learning material — are good. The centre party believes that a voluntary offer of homework is good. And we are also pleased that it is left to the municipalities as school owners to organise the offer most appropriate for their part. However, we believe that each school owner and principal should address the challenges many face in terms of homework. Many parents of older children have an aversion to helping their children with homework, because they're afraid they don't know the drug that their children are working with. Lessons in parental meetings are therefore something we should encourage schools to do. There are now many municipalities offering a similar learning aid scheme. Assistants help with the homework. For 1- to 4 homeworker assistance. class I am not so concerned that it is not professional educators who may carry out the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e192	Let me first comment on what Mr Hagen said about the form of work. I remember times, before we had majority rule, when we just had this kind of work here in the Storting where we were concerned about finding common solutions and listening to both what the opposition wanted and what the opposition wanted – and we found many common good solutions. I miss that time. This case, on the other hand, is a matter which is a follow-up to many matters that we have dealt with in the Stortinget in the past. So I don't spend much time on the things that the committee agrees on. But I would like to note with satisfaction that the matter that arose at Gausdal secondary school has been resolved wisely by the expulsion decision. I would also like to express satisfaction with the noise for people with disabilities, which is a good solution and very good that you get in place. However, the disagreement in today’s proposal is to legislate on the obligation to provide free lessons for students aged 1–4. year-end. The devaluation of the role of parents in raising their own children is not new tones by this government. Already in St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, it is stated that Norwegian school is less than the school in countries with which we can compare, to compensate for the social background of students. The level of education of parents seems to have an impact on the performance of children. The solution, according to the red-greens, is to reduce the relationship with parents and balance the differences through school interventions. I have always disagreed with a one-sided conclusion that it is the school that has to compensate for different social backgrounds alone, and that parents have to be kept away. On the contrary, I believe that the social differences we find show how important it is to raise awareness of the role of the home, both at school and at parents. I believe that empowerment instead of disincentive of parents and knowledge of the benefits of good cooperation between home and school could lead to a much greater degree of social cohesion. There is no doubt that teaching aid is an important voluntary measure for some students. But removing the lessons, for which someone has taken the floor, I would warn against. Removes a homeworker, also removes one of the last meeting points where parents can engage in children’s school days. Many parents place too high a requirement on themselves as to what help they should be able to provide. It's not about parents having to be rocket scientists or math professors to help their own children with homework. We know that a negative attitude at home to school as a whole or to some subjects can help negatively affect children's learning. But in the same way, a positive and encouraging attitude to school will have a positive effect on children's learning. It is important that parents support, motivate and care about their children’s schooling. It could have a good learning effect. Lessons can be a good educational tool for children’s learning, if used deliberately. It's e.g. to allow lessons to function more as a repetition of what has been learned in school than as the acquisition of new drugs. Here I also want to comment on this with a pedagogical presence, because here we disagree with the opposition. When I hear someone talk about having pedagogues present on homework, it sounds more like a desire for adapted training – that it's to give extra education to those students who don't hang out with. I want to warn you that we're moving it to after school. These challenges must be solved in school. The training aid shall be in order to make it work also for those families where parents are not able to help with their homework, and not as an extra adapted training. The proposal on statutory counselling is not only wrong, it also puts school owners in many difficult and unbridled situations because the government has chosen to ignore the many challenges that have arisen in the hearing. This applies, for example: whether to link showers to end of school, after homework or after SFO. What offers should they get that will use the SFO, but that don't want to have homework in the SFO period, if you choose that solution? Should homework be provided in SFO or in school? How do the resources available to non-governmental organisations currently providing homework use into this system? Another thing that I notice has really affected municipalities and school owners, is that this was promised as a free hour SFO when it was sold out, and it has given many difficult situations. We support the rapporteur's way of raising our resistance to the point, and will vote in the same way as he described it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e209	Recently, it has been presented as if the disagreement in school policy is not really big, and that it is an advantage for school policy that it is not. I do not agree with that. I think it's a big difference politically, and the big problems of school policy up through time are when you've mixed up what's school policy, and what's pedagogic. When politicians get involved in pedagogics, it's just nonsense. When politicians discuss school policy, we get good debates that are good for the country. It has also been called for more agreement with the government, because that is what it must mean when you expect better cooperation on the proposals. It has not happened under this government that you have turned around because of good arguments from someone else. Then you should not expect to bend in the dust for the government's proposals at all points immediately, without reservation. When you say that these are just ritual exercises, and then you use your entire article to talk about what others think, I want to use my post to say what the Left means. Point one: Left is for lessons. I think that's a good way to work. But if it's like that in a school that teachers want to use a pedagogical method where they don't use so much homework, but choose to do it in other ways, I mean as a politician, I don't have anything to do with it. I don't want to prescribe lessons like a pedagogical way of working, sail if I had thought – if I had a child – that it would have been a good way of working, that you practice when you get home. Actually, working at school is incredibly unfair. Some just surf through. Others have to work really hard for the exact same thing. There's a difference that doesn't make sense, but there's a way to make it easier. That's why the left is also very much for homework, especially for those students who don't have the same amount of pussiness to get over the list, and where there are people who always check what's in the lesson book. But to think that you're going to make a template that suits everyone, always, is what we're most skeptical about. I took a seam as a school agency in Oslo to get homework help, especially in the inner east of Oslo, together with non-governmental organisations. When you say that once you have selected non-governmental organisations, you can't have educational staff, it's a short cut I don't fully understand. We used last year's teacher school students, which Red Cross organized. That there is a voluntary organisation behind the organisation does not say anything about the type of staff you are using. This does say a little about the government's relationship with non-governmental organisations and everything that is not public. Creating such good models is also based on having access to what is available in the inner east of Oslo, where we have used such offers, namely good teacher-school students who want to work. But we don't want it to be pedagogues, because by definition, teacher-school students are not pedagogues. So making a template and saying that it's always going to fit all the time, the left hand side is opposite. I also have to say that this shows that this case, which is to print a model down on all schools and all municipalities, no matter what competence you offer, is not as well prepared as I want. Questions such as: related to the skystack I think is a big question that remains. I notice that around the country, when the Left says that this we really didn't want, we would have the funds much freer and would have chosen sails how to organize it, and which groups we were to bet on, the Left will receive constant support from at least SV in the local government around, who would like to vote for the Left's proposal not to make this mandatory. Now I have 30 seconds left, and then I want to use them on a police record. The left supports the fact that we are now transferring it to the cultural schools, but we are very sceptical about the instrument. I'm really afraid that these police reports will be a sleeping cushion for the management of a lot of institutions that think that once it's checked, you never have to think about assault. I don't know, but I've never heard of an attacker who's been stopped from taking a job because of a police record, but I've heard of a lot of assault cases where adults haven't seen. I have to say that I'm very sceptical about this development in general, where but take responsibility away from the management who thinks this is a checkpoint like anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e224	Let me first comment on some of the things you agree on in this matter. It's about the arrangement we're now getting into with regard to the disfellowshipping of students. I think we have found a balanced solution. Rejecting students for all of the school days is obvious to the principal. Rejecting an educational session to create work rest for all students is something that can be delegated to a teacher. In the case of the right to shine for disabled people to and from the school leisure system, many in this room have been concerned about it. It allows disabled children to participate in the SFO differently from before. That's very good, everyone agrees. I am also very pleased that we agree that we are now changing the terms so that we do not complete the course that is in higher education, that everyone gets basic competence. So I share some of the concerns that Trine Skei Grande talked about when it comes to police clearance. A police record is an instrument, but it cannot be a sleep cushion, given that adults must observe and be present in relation to that type of issue. Many of the abuses happen to people who have not been taken for anything in the past. So go to homework. Let me start by saying one thing, and that's that parents' commitment to children's education is very important. Many parents feel that they are a little short when it comes to helping their kids with homework, especially a little up in school. However, parents’ interest in schoolwork, facilitating, ensuring that there is work rest, the ability to do homework, is of great importance to children’s interest in school and school performance. All parents, no matter what background they have, have a lot to offer in terms of students' interest in school. Nor is it the case that an offer of lessons associated with the school relieves parents of responsibility to accompany their children at school, and it is also the case that even if children have done part of their homework in connection with the school day, parents should be interested in them — just so that it is a starting point. There's a lot of discussion about what's good homework. Everyone needs to practice drugs that have been taught. We've had a seminar on homework, in the Ministry of Knowledge that we call good practice. There we have come up with some common recommendations, such as: the lessons are affordable, they are about rehearsing things that have been taught, getting feedback on lessons – many students say they are not getting feedback and thus losing the inspiration – etc. This can be found on the Ministry of Knowledge’s websites. So to the solution that's chosen. What is the starting point for children between 1 and 4. step? It's often that they're at school first, they're at the SFO, and then they're going home and they're going to throw in dinner and out at some leisure activity. Even for eight-year-olds, everyday life can be eight o'clock in the evening before the school books are taken up. There are many parents who say that it is a very tiring everyday life. This is why we have wanted lessons to be available in connection with the school day, so that you could use some of the hours you might have been on the SFO to work with the homework, so that you can have a little more rest around dinner and get family time to go together – not so that your parents don't get interested, for example. It is very important to read with the youngest children. And of course, it's going to come in as well. When we want to make it a voluntary offer, I would like to say that it is very important how the municipalities organise this offer. You can quickly organize it in such a way that students who from now on think it's fun to do schoolwork use this lesson, while those who initially think it's a hard time come up with something else. Therefore, it is very important that the municipalities organise it, so that it is an offer for all children. It's also true that if you get the feeling that this is just an offer for those who need it, it won't be a good offer either. When we want to go through this balancing process by legislating the obligation to provide homework, but to open up too many local variations in how to design this, it's precisely because the reality around is different. That's why we depend on using your head and thinking locally about how to meet the needs of your children at your school and in your municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e246	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e249	Let me begin by congratulating the Council of State on having promoted a lot of good progress party policy today. We always appreciate that. This applies both to the right of teachers to expel students and to the right to a police record. But it's homework the question will be about. I am pleased that the Council of State strongly stresses that this will apply to both strong and unmotivated students. But there is little experience with this in many municipalities. Some have been doing this for quite a short time, and there is little research. Nevertheless, the Council of State concludes that this is good. That's what more of us do. However, the Council of State also concludes that it is the best measure for school today. It is the best purpose to spend a lot of money on, and it is also a breach of the promise of knowledge in relation to allowing municipalities and schools to have greater autonomy than before. Then I just wonder: what does the Council know that not so many others, neither the hearing bodies nor we in the opposition know? What is this council that knows and has knowledge of, that we haven't gotten along with or been briefed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e258	I'm starting to think that Tord Lien gets the most of it going on -- at least a lot of what's the central school debate. For example, in the discussion on homework, we know that some things are central: that students practice drugs that are introduced by the teacher, and that they have affordable tasks that you get feedback about if you have done. For this step it is also important that the perspective is not so far that you get homework from day to day that you go through. It's important. So we know that very many parents and children have said that if they could do part of this in connection with school time, it would mean less mass, stress and striving after they have come home. The way the municipalities are now required to make an offer, I know that many parents and children can organize their everyday life in a much better way, and work and practice things they have gone through in teaching in a more constructive way than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e267	Teaching help for students is motivated by the desire to offer additional follow-up to students who need it. According to the Dyslexia Association, support schemes for the purchase of personal PCs for dyslexia children are a prerequisite for the optimal benefit of the training. That's why we're very surprised that the whole grant is gone, and that students who need their own PC now have to pay the whole thing for themselves. Vice-Chancellor Eva Bratli of Follo Kinder- und Jugendskola responded spontaneously when she heard about the government's cut: ‘Such a decision will affect the weakest students in our school community!’ The council was confronted with the matter on TV 2 yesterday, and then she had no comment. But now that the Council of State has got some sleep on the matter, does the Council of State think that the cut in PC support has a good social profile? Does the Minister of Knowledge not see the inconsistency when, on the one hand, the government wants to legislate on teaching aid for students who need it, but in the next breath, dyslexic students may be deprived of their most important means of obtaining the best possible benefit from the training?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e281	As the representative of Aspaker probably got along, this was not my only comment. Children with dyslexia are entitled to organized education. They are also entitled to the assistance they need in order to benefit from the teaching. So it is not that although this aid scheme is being phased out – it is a subject of revision – dyslexic children will not be offered any help. Those who have a single decision on this issue are entitled to have a good offer even when it concerns PCs, for example. What will then be the challenge is who will come up with that kind of support. Should it be a general aid scheme? Who's going to pay? Then it is the municipalities in the case that are responsible for having the means they need to organise the teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e286	As I said in my post: When this case was presented, it came out as an hour free SFO. It created an expectation in the parents, and they were very annoyed at the municipality that did not set up. I hope that the Minister of Knowledge will take the responsibility and responsibility for the fact that there is something else you have offered. But there are many things in this scheme that reduce volunteering, and this is especially true in my county, where there are some small municipalities that depend entirely on bush – and long thunder – for children to get to the school offer. You can't afford to go to school alone, so the question is, should you let it go to school? You're going to let it go after homework, or you're going to let it go after school, after homework, and after SFO? I think the Council of State understands that this will make the voluntary offer to a utopia in many places, because you can't afford to make fun of it, which means that you can either use the lecture service or you can use the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e293	This is a problem that I'll be following, but I think it's going to be quite flexible in most places. The subsidy now granted to municipalities is more than 400 million. kr on an annual basis. The offer to be made is a voluntary offer. We know that not all children are going to take advantage of that offer, and that gives them snails. The grant is like 100 pst. of the children should take advantage of it. So we know that those who use the voluntary textbook offer don't participate in the SFO, even though it's often joined with the SFO, and it also gives the municipalities a little slack, which I hope they use to reduce the payment for the SFO, but that also gives them the opportunity. I think that in most cases this is going to solve itself, but there is a problem that I'm following, because Norway is quite diverse, and the issues can be slightly different around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e304	Left people locally have fought in many places to get to the homework facility. But when they are told that this is going to be a state order, which is to be organized in only one way, it logically steals in a liberal. So they have made suggestions in local government that this is money that you should have had locally, found good solutions and perhaps achieved especially those students that you actually wanted to reach. My question to the Council of State is: why do you think SV has supported these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e311	I think that's a general claim. What I have experienced as a counter-representation, or as a question about the offer of homework in this form, is why we have not given this offer to the slightly larger children. There are many who have said that those who go in 5–7. class, or perhaps secondary school, needs more homework related to school day than those of 1–4. steps. There are several reasons why we've now concentrated on them in terms of 1 to 4. class. One is that a lot of them are in the SFO already, and a lot of them have had a desire to do some of the homework in the time they're in the SFO, because it frees time after they get home. That's why this is an alternative for SFO in a lot of municipalities. The second is that we know that early effort is very crucial, and good work habits around just that repetition, or the exercises that the lessons mean, are an important investment in how to acquire knowledge later on. If we manage to organise this offer in such a way that there is a wide range of offers that most children use, it is a good investment for later schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e322	Let's try it again. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State believes that I get the most. I think the Council of State is doing the same. That's why I might take it as a sign of remorse that she answered a different question than what I asked. I did not ask if the council believes that homework is good. Many of us believe that. I asked what it is the Council of State knows that the Council of State has concluded that it is the best measure. We have 400 million. to use in a better school, according to the Council of State and the Government. Then homework can be one thing. The promise of knowledge placed great emphasis on the fact that the municipalities would be able to decide more themselves, not less. But the Council of State and the majority today conclude that the 400 million. clearly identified for this purpose, to be used in one measure and in one group, between six and nine years of age. What is it that concludes that all the other things you could do in school are being put aside, and that this is now to be legislated?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e329	‘All other things’ are not added to the page. We have many ambitions in many areas to improve both quality and competence, to strengthen teachers, to train Vice-Chancellors, etc. But the background for creating this offer is the things that I've been through several times: We know that early efforts are important. We know that good work habits related to the practice of drugs that have gone through school are an important investment for later. We know that many children are already in the SFO, and that many families have said, "Can't they spend any of that time doing the homework or parts of the homework they're otherwise struggling to get time for in the evening?" This is going to be a loving and important offer for a lot of families. My goal is to be able to find the shape of it around the municipalities that makes most children use it. Then we've made a good investment for learning in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e343	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e348	Many have been told about the good changes that the government has made. So let me make a few comments about that part of the case that is about the right to shine for the disabled to and from the SFO. The government submitted St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 Mestring, possibilities and meanings of the previous ageing period, and in the processing of that message, the Workers' Party, and to the extent that the Health and Welfare Committee as a whole, were concerned with the need to find solutions for ensuring a satisfactory SFO provision for children with disabilities throughout the education cycle. It has now been followed up by the government, and to me there are particularly two points that are important, for the first time that the SFO is a good and important offer for many, many young people across the country. With the change you are making, this is even more accessible to even more people by giving children with disabilities the right to shine to and from the SFO. It is clear that some people have been unable to take part in the SFO offer. It's going to be organized into, to the benefit of and to the delight of many. The proposal is therefore very purely educational, by allowing several young people to participate in the SFO. It is important that all children participate, as far as possible, in the same school day, SFO included. But there's also another aspect of justice because there's an offer that's actually made available to everyone on equal terms. It was important for the health and care committee in the previous period, and it is good that the government has followed it up, as one has done through this legislative change. The most possible universal design, the most equivalent of all, we are strong fans of, and this is a new contribution to it. The second point is that this is useful and enjoyed not only for the kids, but also for parents who may have had a problem getting their everyday lives to go together. The government has in the follow-up to the St.meld process. No 25 have been prepared a report entitled ‘Carting leisure activities for children and young people with disabilities’. That report points, inter alia, to: the free movement of children to and from the school leisure arrangements will lead to the participation of several young people in the SFO offer and to a greater possibility for parents to be in full-time employment. The fact that you can be sure that your kids are doing well is active and developing in the SFO makes working hours better. It's safe and healthy for parents, and it'll be easier to carry out a normal working day for these parents, being in full-time jobs. Several municipalities are already doing this today, where all of the kids get shot up and down from the SFO. Now it's legal, and the others will follow. Therefore, there is reason to be pleased that the government has followed up this part of which the previous Health and Care Committee was busy. It's good for the kids, it's good for the parents, and it's good for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e361	It's good we again have one thing in Stortinget, where there is a clear desire to help our children to a better future that is the intention. I appreciate that. The matter today is about many things, relatively small, perhaps a little technical, but they are not less valuable and important for that reason. They help a lot of children in their everyday lives. My post will also go to the part of the case that has received the most attention, namely homework. The debate does not concern whether we should have homework, but how it should be organised. The main reason for the debate is probably the legal requirement. It seems as if there is a strong need for the government to point out something specific they have done, and then the legal requirements are easy to document. But does it work? Does it strengthen students, or do we shift resources that one could use far more targeted and social balancing on other school interventions? In my opinion, in the resource struggle in most municipalities, the resource issues have been dealt with in a blatant way. First, it concerns the issue of school kiss, which has been addressed in many of the hearings. Nevertheless, we read in the proposition that this is not a problem, because it does not trigger a cloud obligation. No, that's formally right. But the kids who need school kissing have to get home, otherwise it's not a real offer for them. To think that this does not trigger a problem that costs money, one has to be either unimaginable navigable in terms of its own proposals, or superurban, with zero understanding of everyday life in most parts of the country. This is a problem. The argument that this should be solved by each municipality in a strong way and whenever they want. Nevertheless, when it is admitted in a slight moment that clouds can still become a cost, it is pointed out that by using homework, the SFO will save money, which can be used for shooting. Well, are there the students who are at the SFO, who are going to have the homework? Should it happen at the same time as the SFO? And what does SFO do to make sure that some of the kids get homework part of the time? I can't see that a penny is being released here. And finally, according to the government's proposal, the teaching aid should not be carried out by the most qualified, namely pedagogues. Well, the schools can do that. I've talked to some principals. They're all responding that this is an exciting action, we're going to do this, we're going to put in pedagogues. How do you do that? We have to take resources from the rest of the education. Rather, the right will put resources into school hours. Instead of taking these resources out of school and over to leisure time, we will put them on top of the quality of teaching, so that all students get good help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e376	The progress party is for voluntary homework. In the same way as in the Advance Party, the introduction of statutory rights to homework is also not well received in the municipalities. Among other things, the Red-Green parties in Trondheim have supported a note to engage in dialogue with the State in order to remove the designation of teaching aids, so that municipalities can be given the opportunity to prioritize the actions they themselves consider to be most important in order to achieve the objectives of adapted training and early intervention. This case is also about demands for police clearance. The Progress Party is pleased that the Committee supports the legalisation of police certification requirements for staff in the music and cultural schools. In a comment from the Committee: ‘It is difficult to see the reason why the requirement for a police certificate that applies to teachers today does not apply in the music and cultural schools. The Committee also supports the amendment concerning the legalisation of requirements for police attestations for employment in the school leisure system.’.» I read out the whole comment – where we agree – because I am very pleased that the majority of the population has changed their view on demands for police clearance for those working with children and young people. The Party of Progress promoted in Document No. 8:138 for 2007-2008 proposals on ‘Policy attestation requirements for all persons working with minors’. This was not heard and was voted down. That's why I'm very happy that there's a broad consensus about this now, not because we think that this alone puts an end to child abuse, but it helps to focus that this is not tolerated. And that's important. The Progress Party looks forward to the handling of a matter of proof of good conduct for the religious communities in Stortinget. In a press release on 16 April 2010, Minister of Culture Huitfeldt said: ‘We also want to introduce requirements for proof of good conduct for employees and volunteers in religious and life-viewing societies working with children and young people.’ The Progress Party has also for many years addressed the importance of calm and order in school, both for the learning environment and for learning to take account of each other, in order to become a person of benefit. We are therefore pleased that there are clearer rules for expulsion and expulsion, precisely in order to keep order. I would also like to say that it is very unfortunate that the government parties legislate for the right to homework and do not show the municipalities confidence by giving them the opportunity to use these funds in a way that they believe is the most appropriate. They give knowledge to our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e397	For decades, Norwegian schools have had their own activities, partly in school time, partly after school or outside school time, then largely at home. And if we've had it at home, we've called it homework. The fact that this well-tested pedagogical method is now to be given — in some other way, probably — in most schools can hardly be a dramatic event in School-Norway. We have all noticed – and many have been involved – that there is a lot of homework around School-Norway that has developed from below and a little independent of the debates we have at national level, simply because there is a need and a desire for homework to take place. So I don't quite understand this point that we're now kind of starting an activity that we don't know anything about. Well, we know a lot about homework -- we don't know enough, and we're going to discuss how it can be better lessons. But for all intents and purposes, this is not a dramatic new thing. So a little bit about this with volition and coercion: if we look at this situation in a year's time, I think we'll be surprised – no, by the way, the opposition will be surprised – about how different Kommune-Norge, elementary school, SFO, etc. has put this reform into practice, including how it has been organised with scotch. There's a situation out there where primary school and SFO, like the cultural school in many places, have been organized differently. Then it should be lacking that not even the individual municipality is given the opportunity – and now they get – to place this new element in a flexible way. Here we will have different solutions. Thank you and the price for adopting something today that offers opportunities for different solutions out there in Kommune-Norway. A little bit about parental assistance: I think the opposition should be a little careful to say that if you don't have homework, like your parents abdied. This is a bit of a signal to send to those schools that already saw not having homework. Will we say to these schools that here you are really doing something that is highly critical? It's a bit of a signal to send to the parents who have the children in those schools that haven't put in much homework. Do we mean that they act almost like any of those B-parents who don't play their parental role? If we look at the large difference between schools in different amounts of parental activity, the element does not lecture – the extent of homework – that makes the big difference. There is another type of parental activity that separates. For parental activity is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e406	I would like to address a problem that has so far not been addressed in particular, namely the financial framework of the municipalities to implement a learning aid scheme in a good way. When the government presented the state budget for 2010, funds were put in place to provide free homework, as well as funds for an increased number of teaching hours, and it sounds good and good. The challenge is that the government does not seem to see the financial challenges facing municipalities. The economic performance of municipalities has been weak in recent years, and major challenges for a number of municipalities are being reported to cover entirely basic welfare services. When the government assigns tasks to municipalities, it is very important that funds for implementation be followed up. The government keeps saying that this is done, but the experience of this is unfortunately quite different in Kommune-Norway. The economic situation of local authorities puts local politicians in a very difficult situation. Often people are forced to set priorities between basic welfare services. Should we give the children a good school, the elderly a good home care or run a nursing home? In my home municipality, where the Workers' Party has run continuously for over 100 years and continues to sit in position with, among others. SV, teaching aid has been adopted to the SFO with their employees but funded by the school’s operating budgets. The reason is tight economy. Thus, the teaching aid in my home municipality is to be financed by funds that should have been used to pay more teachers and teaching hours in the school. Another municipality in Akershus has chosen to use funds allocated to the continuing training of teachers to finance teaching aid. Unfortunately, I do not think these are unique examples in Kommune-Norway. The income of municipalities is disproportionate to the tasks the municipalities are expected to perform. I hope that the government takes this seriously, and ensures the municipalities considerable funding in the future, so that homework does not go at the expense of other basic welfare services in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e421	Quite a short word about the use of the term – first of all, with the ban and ban: it is now the law of the right to be expelled for two hours. However, in the note and in the message, but also often the term ‘absent’ is used. It is important to focus on the fact that there are actually two different things — that expulsion by the principal is a punishment, while expulsion is about correcting a situation that arises in the classroom in a given situation. The Committee has also stressed the need for information on the changes to be made from lower competence to basic competence. I assume that the Council of State will follow up this further work on this matter. So for homework. We have discussed whether we disagree with each other on whether we agree or disagree on the main lines of Norwegian education policy. We also disagree whether it is good or bad that we agree or disagree on the main lines of Norwegian school policy. I am one of those who believe that it is good that we agree on a lot and more and hope that it continues. I believe that because international studies indicate that those countries that stay away from ideological drunkenness from ditches to ditches and bava building over changing ministers of knowledge are the most successful knowledge nations. That's why it's good that we agree more and more. Therefore, it is not good to now legislate for the right to homework, which is a violation of the guiding principles of the Knowledge promise. I have to admit that the representatives of both the SV and the Center Party have a more open relationship with homeworkers than I find that the representative Ljunggren has, which almost ridicules the parents' desire to contribute in school everyday life to their hopeful ones. Then I am glad that the Council of State actually shows a more pragmatic approach to these conditions – that is good news. Nevertheless, I feel that today's decision to force all the municipalities to carry out the very same type of homework may not build a digger baita over itself as the school council, but at least you put up a little ideological bust, and I had hoped we could avoid that. I hope we will now deal with the main principles of the Knowledge Promise, and let the municipalities and the individual schools, the individual principals and the individual teachers influence their daily lives more. We do not win the fight for Norway as a knowledge nation from this room. We only win it if we can mobilize parents, school politicians, principals and teachers around the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e432	The President would point out that pedagogical driving is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e435	"Ideological drunk driving," I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e440	‘Ideological drunkenness’ is not a parliamentary expression either!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e443	It was the representative of Aksel Hagen who made me take the floor. When he describes the work of the Education Committee as a "ritual" disagreement, I actually find reason to stress that there is actually real disagreement between the opposition and the government. This is also the case in parts of this case. I thought most of the parties at Stortinget agreed that we should pursue a research-based education policy. But this case is an example of the very opposite. Here you have seen that you think it might be right to take action in the first years of school. Then, for security reasons, you first legislate, and then you need to know if you have taken a flash with such a measure. It's actually about spending 400 million. Kr, which could have been converted into probably two school hours, and all students could benefit from the early efforts of the Council of State here partly justifying this legalisation of voluntary homework. How does the Council of State know that it is those students who need this voluntary homework, who are going to respond to the voluntary homework? I think it's quite strange that the Council of State is using such a argument instead of being able to use that money in normal school time to make sure that the students who need this early effort were reached. Then I think the government is contradicting itself in this matter. If it is the case that parents are short, that parents' skills are too low to be able to help their children, what does it mean for unskilled homeworkers to be the answer to the need for help and the assistance that students need with their homework? From the right, it's important to stress that when so much public money is to be invested, it doesn't really matter what 400 million. kr of taxpayers' money shall be used for. Then I find that there is full division in the government parties and inside the Swedish authorities in the case of homework. Aksel Hagen now defends a school without homework, and he is then after what I have observed and heard, on a collision course both with his own government council and with red-green co-representatives. He is also in full collision training with the Parental Committee for Primary School, which one really should listen to in a case like this, which is very clear that the lessons have a place, and that it is important in communication and cooperation with the school that parents can make their contribution by following up the children through homework. Norwegian students need to learn more, not less. Norwegian students have to volunteer to work more, not less. The right is therefore satisfied that Aksel Hagen is quite alone, it seems, to want to go back to the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e460	It was Aksel Hagen's posts that made me take the word, and that's to clarify a misunderstanding. He said that the opposition believes that parents have ‘abbied’ in relation to being present in children’s school days. I would just like to stress that the representative of the Christian People's Party did not come. On the contrary, I believe that parents really want to participate in the students' school days and participate in a positive way, but it is not always well organized. When it comes to homework as a link to school, it's right that the representative Aspaker here says that the parental committee for primary school is very clear that it's one of the few lines that parents have to get into a good conversation about school. Try having a conversation with a fourth grade about what school life has been like. It'll be something like this: how did you do at school today? Fine. What did you do at school? Mye. Then you don't get very much anymore. When school life is so different from when we went to school, it's hard to get a good conversation about how to be a parent and build up positively under what's going on in school every day. In kindergarten, since the representative Hagen was concerned with drawing that perspective, this is solved very easily by having a board at the entrance, so that you can see what the children have done. This creates a lot of understanding when kindergarten kids try to tell you what they've really done. It's not easy to get to these conversations, but it's done in a good way. I think using the homework as a connection to parents is very important. Then I also want to say that I think it's good the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen started to say about the parents' role in children's school days and how important it is. I miss enough to see it again in concrete action. There's one thing you could really do, and that was go in and look at a much stronger funding of the parental committee at primary school. They have been given an extended mandate, but in relation to how much money is spent on them and what is actually expected of them to accomplish for us, we get a lot of money back. Another thing I think the Council of State could have looked at is what we've wanted to do, namely to get some earmarked jobs for people who have competence in home-school co-ordination out there. There are some principals who have wanted it instead of having to take it from the educational resources they have in school today. These are two concrete things where the council can really go in and take action out of the sentence she had in her post, namely that parents are extremely important in children's schoolwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e475	This debate may be – what to say – a broader and better school debate than we might have anticipated in advance, as it is not really about major legislative changes. I take the floor on the basis of the fact that several have mentioned this with the fact that there has been an aideologicalisation of the Norwegian school debate, which I spoke about at a Tekna conference yesterday, and which has been referred to by several of today's speakers. I do not expect any cross-political agreement on this, simply because we live a little bit of disagreement, and it is clear that such things as today show that there is disagreement. But I find that the spokesperson of the Progress Party, Tord Lien, shares some of my views. I want to substantiate this in the following way: I feel that everyone in the hall, from SV to the Progress Party, is concerned that the school should focus on knowledge. We have a cross-political agreement on this. In addition, there is a high level of involvement in all batches to combat bullying and for well-being. Discussing whether you're in favour of or against the school or the boarding school, I think it's a little old-fashioned policy, because we want all students to thrive, because if they don't thrive, they can't learn. In addition, I would also argue that the debate and comments relating to Reform 97, and what several parties at the time suggested that they should not destroy the childhood of the children by introducing learning requirements in the first class, would not happen today. I mean – and I think most people in this room believe – that children from they are born start learning from their surroundings. That's the first thing that happens. In the first few days and weeks, a newborn baby starts to learn how the world is around, and then of course it evolves through. Parents have the primary responsibility. Then comes the kindergarten, which we also now add more pedagogy into. I think that's right. It will prepare the children to start at a school where, of course, it is like this – as Siv Jensen pointed out yesterday, and knows examples of, and we all know examples of – that a first-rater wants to learn from day one. The debate that took place at the time, in 1997, can be interesting reading. Many argued strongly that we took from our children's childhood if we put learning into school. I don't think anyone will claim it today, because we have to combine it with learning to challenge the curiosity of children, while of course it's going to be on the 6-year-old's premise, the 10-year-old's premise and the 15-year-old's premise, for which we have to work. So there's a lot of things there's disagreement about. But the promise of knowledge is a broad consensus, which is also an example. And we've got a private school settlement, with which I think a lot of people can live, and which makes Norwegian school policy essentially about being good at public school, where we're going to make it best possible for all students, and in addition we're going to have private schools next to the public that are going to be educational and religious alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e490	I must say I am wondering about part of the temperature in this debate. For me, today's discussion is about offering homework during the time that very many children go to the SFO, so that it is possible to sit and train and practice things that the teacher has gone through in the hour, with the help of an assistant, organized pedagogical, thus releasing a little more time for parents and children together in the afternoon. That makes sense to me. There seem to be a terrible lot of the students and the parents I've been talking to, sound reasonable. It makes it easier to get your everyday life together, and it gives you more opportunity to concentrate on part of the school work that can be difficult to get an 8 year old to concentrate on, maybe at noon. 20 in the evening after the football training is over. Then it's part of the opposition that wants to make it a difficult ideological debate. Yeah, well, they about it! What distinguishes the opposition and the position is that the opposition does not want to arrange for 1 to 4 ratings to do more of their homework in the SFO period. Well, well, they get to meet the voters. So the discussion is whether this is going to be teacher's hours, that is, hours with educated teachers, or assistant hours, as we've suggested, with a significant resource for pedagogical organization. Teachers are a button resource in school. We need more teachers and better teachers. We work with further training and principal training and at all. We have a lot of problems that we would like them to do. In terms of help for lessons from 1 to 4 steps, I'd say we've found a good balance on how to solve it. But I don't understand that the opposition can rise to the big heights above this when their option is zero. That's kind of funny. Then I would think that the option was to provide homework with teacher hours. But no. Then comes another criticism, and that's that this is made as an obligation for municipalities to provide homework, with a possible certain variation locally as to how to do it. Then the criticism is that you centralize the municipalities, but in the next round – you cannot even breathe – the demand that this money should have been sent without any label to the municipalities, so that they could use it for exactly what they wanted. It doesn't really matter. Then there is someone who has given the impression that municipalities have to take funds from further education to teachers or other good purposes to finance homework. That's wrong. The currently introduced training aid will be fully funded for that purpose. The fact that municipalities can have some other challenges in terms of their budgets is another matter. But it's not like you're taking from other purposes in school to fund this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e505	After listening to this debate, like the Minister of Knowledge, I am very surprised at what kind of debate this is, especially when those who are most critical of this, say that they believe that homework is important, but have no alternative to doing the system we have today, better, so that more people get help. I think practicing is important. It's important, and that's the basis for most of the learning. Therefore, there is reason for students to get better help with the exercise they have to do. They can get it from their parents, and they can get it from school. They should get it at school, so that everyone has the opportunity to get good help in this. It's nice to practice together, too, I think everyone who's been doing it, see. I think this is so important that we cannot continue as we have until now. This is a plus for everyone. Then I sat and listened to the representative Dagrun Eriksen, who referred to a conversation between parents and a child who came from school, and how difficult this conversation could be if you did not have homework to discuss. You can actually discuss the lessons you have done at SFO – that’s not difficult! I have to say that I think this is a signed picture of how to talk to children to argue for their vision, which is that you should not have homework. I get furious on behalf of parents who hear how clumsy they are in conversation with their children who have been to school. It's not like that! I have, like others here, a lot of contact with children and teachers, and everyone thinks – I haven't been away from someone who has said anything else – that getting good homework at school or within the SFO system is a great good and a big and important step forward for all children. It gives all children an opportunity to get good help. I'm very surprised that, based on the argument today, this seems uninteresting for the opposition. So I very much agree with what Marianne Aasen said in his post. I've been working in kindergarten for 17 years. Children learn from day one. They're very interested in learning, but somehow we've managed to put together the debate so it sounds like learning is something we're doing at school, and everything else isn't about learning. It's all about learning. It's about children learning all the time – they learn at home, they learn at SFO, they learn at school, they learn at kindergarten. They're learning all the time. The only question is whether we should create a learning environment that is good – and better than today – in several arenas. That will benefit the children, and many more will learn more and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e518	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e521	I have to – I have to – be very fast. I record that the representative Andersen believes that the conversation I have been referred to from parents is an awkward conversation. She has to stand for herself. I think a lot of parents recognize that it's hard to know how to get in, because school life is so different from what it was when they went to school. So it was said here that the opposition had no alternative. It's actually wrong, because the Christian People's Party, in its alternative budget here in Stortinget, has just moved the money that the government spends on this, into other teaching aids – both on a voluntary basis and in other ways – to strengthen the offer that already exists, without going for the legal duty that the government provides here and that creates many challenging situations in the municipalities. I would just like to stress this at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e530	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e533	The councils know better than what she said in the post she just held here. Both the Progress Party and the Right have spent some money in their alternative budgets to help with homework based on the many voluntary schemes that are out in the municipalities, and based on the fact that this has been adapted to local needs, without having been said to be reserved for one year. On the contrary, you have said that you can use them at all stages of the year. The right has specifically mentioned youth and the need to do something there. Then I note one thing: that the Council of State did not respond to was my challenge to it with early effort. Now, when you're going to spend as much as 400 million. kr on a full-year basis, could have been converted into regular school hours, which had benefited all students. How does the Council of State know that it is the students she believes should have more of early efforts, who will take advantage of this voluntary offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e540	I can't push myself – but I'll try to be quick. I have my word 100 pst. to be kept. What is the opposition’s alternative in the 1–4 offer. Steps are not intended to compensate for the provision of homework that is now coming here. It's a good thing. But a lot of parents and students are asking for the opportunity to spend the time after school that they are currently using at the SFO, for homework, so that they don't spend the same amount of time on it in the evening. Then there's something that we shouldn't go easy on. It is that this system imposes great demands on how it is organised locally in order to be an offer to all children, to whom Elisabeth Aspaker was in. We must not – what to say – go so far in the trenches in this discussion that you do not see that it is a challenge. And it will be for anyone who offers homework. Because you can give homework to those who like to do a lot of homework, while the others, who might think it's an energy to pull out the textbooks, don't come. It is a challenge for municipalities to facilitate it in such a way that there is an attractive offer for all children, no matter how much interest they may have in schoolwork. I think a lot of municipalities are now working on this challenge, among other things. in contact with parents, for the motivation of parents in relation to this offer is also very important for its exploitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e549	I too have to admit that at times I think the debate has been a bit funny. I don't understand this huge joy at pretending that you agree on things you don't agree with. I would like to take the freedom to quote from SV's program. It says – and they have a desire for this: ‘All school work has been added to the school day and homework is not part of the pupils’ leisure time.’ That's what they think is an overall knowledge view, as Aksel Hagen has said quite correctly in line with SV's policy, that homework should not be something that parents have anything to do with. I'll give you some examples of how different this is. I grew up with a school in a central party-driven municipality, and we had to drive a bus in three blocks, past three schools, to maintain the last branch school. So we drove a bus in three blocks to school and three blocks back – to maintain that school. There was a small school with 60 students, and for this you have to create a school kiss system that picks up before and after SFO, before and after homework, and before and after school. It's going to be a big local challenge. In Old Town school, there are many students who have parents who are illiterate. They use the homework money to have their own course for these parents so that they can learn to be good trainers, even if they can't help doing the homework, like having it quiet when the child is going to read, get the child to repeat what it's read, and all the things you can actually do like mom, even if you can't read. That's what they've chosen to spend the money for. The disagreement in this room goes on: Who will decide what is best in our school? Is it the municipal politicians, or is it this room? I have great faith in the local politicians. I have great faith that if they get a room for action, they know what is needed. Then Oslo's politicians know that it's in Oslo's inner east that we have to start with homework first, that it's in Oslo's inner east that we have to make sure to have the most qualified, while elsewhere we might have other types of fixators. I believe in local diversity. I have faith in local politicians. I have faith in local educators – that they are able to find good solutions. It is sometimes very varied what that offer should be. That's what the disagreement is about. Who is responsible for finding the right solutions? Are there professionals and local politicians, or are we in this room who always know best? When Sverdrup said "all the power in this room," he didn't think all the intelligence was here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e571	It was the Council of State's last post that made me contribute to withdrawing this debate. Saying that our alternative is nothing, sounded a little strange. I wonder if the Council of State has forgotten that she has been Minister of Finance. Policy is, of course, about prioritising funds. The reason why we are voting against today is that we are not sure that the best and most important measure today to strengthen the knowledge of a ten-year primary school in Norway is to legislate that all Norwegian municipalities should provide all those in 1–4. class, a legal right to lecture. It is also because the Progress Party is based on the guiding principles underlying the Knowledge Promise, which I believe is an important factor in mobilising interest in school policy not only in this room, but in mobilising interest in school policy around Norwegian school owners, who are ultimately the most important precursors for this ten-year schooling. The Progress Party also believes that if we are to win this fight to continue to be a prominent knowledge nation, we must not just mobilise the school owners, we must also mobilise the parents. Then I also react so little to this with the parents' time with the children. I can't quite understand why it's a goal that parents don't get involved in the child's knowledge-building/education in the way the Council of State uses. Then I said thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e583	It's possible we're in danger of starting a new round, and that would be a little unfortunate. But I need cards to point to a couple of things. So, first of all, today there's a lot of commitment around the municipalities to make a good school. It's a lot of creativity. The resources are used well, they are used well, and there are many good offers. The second is that I almost wanted to ask for a handshake about how many in this room are the parents of children in this particular age group. It's me, so I could comment on both parents' conversations and other things. I'm the father of children in this age group who have been on the SFO for periods, and for periods I haven't been on the SFO. I have to be able to say that during periods the homework has been done in our basement room for many children in the class steps that apply. There are many good solutions to it with homework, there are many good ways to follow up, and it's incredibly valuable for parents to be involved in it. The reason why I asked for the word was to the best of my knowledge that yes, there are some challenges for the municipalities when this is to be done. It does. Then I just want to remind you again of the everyday life of the school and school politicians around the municipalities. There's a tough fight to get resources to school, and it's like shooting triggers extra costs – have to trigger extra costs – if there's to be homework outside the ordinary school hours. Extra offers of showers, extra routes, cost a lot of money. So I registered that in answer to Elisabeth Aspaker's question about the dyslexics, the Council of State said that yes, this money has been removed from the state budget. This must now be solved by the municipalities. There is an additional cost that is now being spent on municipalities, when we are going to have the greatest possible effort to help those who need it the most in school. It is scary to register, but it underlines that this will be a major challenge for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e596	Aksel Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e599	Yeah, I agree, too. Now let's wish everyone happiness, the ones who are going to put this into life. It's demanding, it's exciting, and it's important. Then we all have to follow how this works. Maybe we need to go back to adjust and improve a little – for all things. Not least what Elisabeth Aspaker very rightly stresses, that if this does not reach everyone, and especially those who need it, we must take new debates about it. Finally, a little bit about our vision. It's not that dramatic either. The vast majority of young children are at school/SFO one to seven hours a day, are picked up by their mother and father, come home again, and dinner is eaten, and Mom and Dad are done. We think that's good. Then this little boy or little girl has some mandatory homework. Why is it necessarily a great ideal that they cannot finish their day’s work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e608	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3665]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e624	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be a change of line after the speakers who have the floor within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e633	Prop. 95 L for 2009–2010 on amendments to the Law on recreational craft, i.e. a driving ban at sea and the withdrawal of a boat driving licence is an important law. It requires boat driving licences for recreational craft having either a length of more than 8 metres and up to 15 metres or an engine performance of more than 25 hp. There is no requirement for a boat licence for persons born before 1 January 1980. Persons born after 1 January 1980 must have passed the boatmaster's test and hold a boat licence when the scheme enters into force. There is also a boatmaster's register of persons who have passed the boatmaster's test and received a boatmaster's certificate. The Committee points out that the present legislative proposal is a follow-up to the introduction of the boat licence, with proposals for a driving ban at sea and the withdrawal of boat driving licences. The aim is to establish a system of penalties allowing boatmasters who commit serious infringements of the legislation at sea to be deprived of the right to drive a pleasure boat subject to a certificate for a given period of time. There has never been a system of penalties for loss of the right to drive at sea in the past, so when the bill is drawn up it is based on the Road Traffic Act. A general rule on the loss of a one-year right is proposed, as agreed by the Committee. With regard to the issue of loss of entitlement, the Committee considers that the penalty system currently in place should only apply to recreational craft between 8 and 15 metres and over 25 hp in the case of professional licences or boats less than 8 metres or less. We also believe it is right that the person who loses the right to drive should pass the boat test in order to get the right back, and do not see this as a disproportionate burden. The Committee also agrees that the person who carries a boat licenced vessel and is under the minimum age of entitlement shall be granted a minimum period of one year from the date on which he reaches the minimum age of entitlement. We also point out that when a person is under criminal prosecution, it may be possible to take provisional decisions on the time limit for the issue of boat driving licences. The Committee notes the opinion of the Police Directorate that, if the level of control is increased from 12 000 controlled to, for example: 50000 controlled boat drivers per year, which will also, of course, lead to an increase in the number of infringements being detected, will entail an increase in the cost of about Twenty million. kr per year. The police directorate has then assumed that it will require approx. 15 additional annual works for the maritime service and the acquisition of three to five modern call-out vessels. If the level of control is to be continued at the current level, the new scheme will require two annual works or about two years. 1.4 million. kr annually. These costs are mainly related to investigations, proceedings and review procedures. That is why the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for additional appropriations to the police as a result of additional costs relating to the enforcement of the new legislation.’ The Committee broadly agrees, but there is a slight difference between the government parties and the opposition. Government lots have noticed that the government stresses that there is no precondition for the implementation of the scheme for an increase in the level of control while the scheme enters into force. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the level of control should be significantly increased and that this will lead to increased costs and extra annual work. This law was supposed to apply from 1 May this year. This didn't happen. The Committee wanted to use a reasonable period of time and the possibility of a hearing was also used. This was not an organisation that wanted to contribute to. In the last ten years, 320 people have lost their lives in boat accidents, 31 of them in 2009. It is our hope that this law will be able to significantly reduce the number of accidents. We also hope that those who were born before 1980 will also take the test, so that they can be involved in increasing safety at sea. You can't ignore the fact that there's been a huge increase in, among other things. roughness on the sea. It is estimated that approx. 100 000 boat drivers under 30 years must have a boat licence this year. One month ago it had approx. one-fourth took the boat's tag. It is different today than before in terms of the type and size of the boat. In the past one started with a small boat and bought – i.e. worked – up. Today, with better economy and opportunities, you have greater freedom, and many start with a relatively large boat. That's why the new law might be extra important. Otherwise, it is from some team that the boat licence is to be held by everyone, regardless of age. I'm sure this can be discussed. Let's start with those who were born after 1980, and see how it works. With this I present the proposal of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e666	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e669	Today's bill is very topical in view of the season we are now going into. The quotation from the song to the Postgiro building "A sunny day" may well be descriptive of the joy of many sea enthusiasts who are now on their way to life. The quotation is: ‘I’m sitting on the mountain and looking out over the sea on a sunny day of my holiday this summer I’m going to surf on water skiing and bathe this holiday think I’m fine’ Some are happy in speed and alcohol, and can easily put themselves and others at risk at sea. The government wants to help make the summer at sea nice for everyone. Therefore, we believe it is important to increase the knowledge of the boat drivers and to contribute to safer boat trips. There is good reason to introduce legislative changes that contribute to increased maritime safety, when we see that a total of 529 people have died in accidents related to recreational boats in the last 15 years. There is no doubt that alcohol use contributes to damage and death at sea. Weird driving and lack of use of lifejackets have led to the same thing. That's why it's joy to pick up in the industry when we now come up with these law changes. The legislative proposal on driving bans at sea and the withdrawal of boat driving licences must be seen in conjunction with the government's decision to impose requirements on compulsory boat driving licences. The legislative proposal intends to strengthen maritime safety. I believe that the case rapporteur has gone through the technique of the legislative changes in an excellent way. There is an overall committee which adheres to the government's proposal on the sanctioning arrangements, so that drivers of all ages can be deprived of the right to drive a boat in the event of unwitting driving and serious infringements of the law. The Labour Party is pleased that we have now put in place these sanctions to contribute to increased maritime safety. In the future, it will be important to obtain information on where to take a course, who has to take the boat licence, and what penalties actually apply. That is why we are pleased that the Maritime Directorate is now conducting an information campaign about this this summer. The government believes that healthy boating and improved maritime competence will contribute to a safer summer for anyone who wants to enjoy sea life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e691	When the government decided to impose requirements on a compulsory boat licence in October 2008, it was also decided that work would be started on the drafting of a law that allowed the boat driver’s licence to be revoked or to ban driving for those who do not have a boat driver’s licence. A bill on this was presented by the government on 12 March this year, and that is the theme of today's suspension. The introduction of a compulsory boat driving licence was a milestone in the safety work at sea. Never before had the competence of drivers of recreational boats been required. The government and the boat crew themselves saw that there was a clear link between the knowledge of the boat drivers and safety at sea. The requirement for a compulsory boat licence has, as you know, entered into force on 1 May of this year, and although I had hoped that several had completed the boat driving test until now, I am convinced that much more will do so now that the boat season stands for the door. When the government introduced requirements for boat licenses, it was a difficult balance where we were to set the age limit for those who had to meet the requirement. When we set the limit to 1 January 1980, those who were born before this date do not have to take the boatmaster's test, but we were clear that even if the limit was set like that, we will come up with a threat of penalties for boatmasters who were born before 1 January 1980 if they commit serious offences at sea. These may, with the government's proposal, lose the right to drive a recreational boat. For those who have a boat license, this can be withheld. The bill implies that a person born before 1 January 1980 who has been banned from driving must pass the boat driving test before he can drive the boat again. The same applies to those who have withdrawn the certificate, even if they have passed the test earlier. Thus, the government's proposal is that a boatmaster operating a recreational boat covered by the compulsory boating licence scheme may lose the right to conduct such a boat if he commits a serious crime. It is not clear from the law what is considered to be a serious offence, but from the draft regulation which will be given in accordance with the law, it is stipulated, inter alia, that: the transport of vessels with pro-mille and gross negligent navigation results in the loss of the right of access. The normal loss period is proposed for one year. In the event of aggravated circumstances, the entitlement may be lost for up to five years. The draft regulation provides, inter alia, for: the operation of a recreational boat with a capacity of more than 2 metres shall be regarded as an aggravating circumstance. In the same way as in the Road Traffic Act, it is the courts that will determine the loss of a right unless the master of the boat has accepted a proposal. With regard to the enforcement of the scheme, the police will be in charge of the control of the boat licence. I see that some of the opposition parties have asked the government to promote additional funding to the police as a result of the new legislation. It is an area that I safely leave to the Minister of Justice and to the police. They will look at how this is to be prioritised and what the resource needs are to follow up on the new legislation. When this amendment of the law comes into force, it is possible for the first time to deprive a boatman of the right to drive a boat. Thus, both the introduction of compulsory boating licences and the threat of loss of the right to drive are milestones in the safety of the sea. Overall – and not least in the long term – I believe that these measures will make it safer to travel by sea, which will be a pleasure for all those who use the sea as a leisure area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e706	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3667]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e722	Prop. 98 L for 2009-2010 is a new law on goods of precious metal to replace the Law of 6 June 1891 No. 2 about the fineness of gold, silver and platinum products and stamping etc. The Committee has been set up, with the exception of whether to withdraw from the Hallmarking Convention of 27 June 1975. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that there is no need to be there anymore, while the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will be there. This is no big deal, and in addition to this, it is, as I said, a unanimous committee. The Committee notes that it is proposed that the existing regulation of precious metal products be continued, with some amendments. In addition, it is proposed that the system of control of precious metals should be abolished and that the supervision of goods of precious metal should instead be carried out by the Adjustervesen. We note that initially there are no specific requirements for the production or sale of goods that are marketed as ‘gold’, ‘silver’ or ‘platinum’ in terms of requirements for the quantity of precious metal that must be contained in the goods, so-called ‘fineness’. The fineness in thousandths shall be stamped on the goods. We agree that the control of goods of precious metal should be continued, that it is appropriate for the Adjustervesen to become a control body, and that responsibility should be passed on to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We notice that the control of precious metals is a self-funded institution. The turnover of precious metal goods is a very small industry, but an important industry, because it has strong symbolic values. Many of these are rooted in our culture and far back in history. In ancient times, gold and silver were those to which values are attached, and it is therefore important to have confidence that values are correct. There are now free exports of precious metal products to countries with the same level of control under the EEA Agreement. Figures from the Convention Secretariat show that Norway has not labelled any products with the CCM label in 2007 or 2008. As far as the purpose of the law is concerned, perhaps its main objective is to ensure trust and content requirements, namely that there are at least 375 thousand pieces of gold, 800 thousand pieces of silver and 850 thousand parts of platinum. However, this does not apply to products imported from other EEA countries which are lawfully traded as products of precious metal there. In order to ensure that requirements laid down by law or by law are met, the Adjustervesen may take a decision on periodic penalty payments due to the Treasury. As a conclusion, it may be mentioned that goods stamped in accordance with previous rules before their entry into force can be freely placed on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e743	The case spokesperson had a brilliant case spokesperson post, so I'll briefly comment on what we're disagreed with, simply whether we're going out of the Hallmarking Convention. We red-green don't want to conclude here and now with regard to going out of this Hallmarking convention, which everyone knows what is -- a convention on the control and labelling of articles of precious metal. Today, we are transferring responsibility to Adjustervesen, which we have agreed in committee to do. There's not much politics in this case, and when it comes to deciding whether or not to join, we think red-green it's ok that this decision is drawn after a slightly more thorough assessment than what we've been given in this document, etc. based on the experience of Adjustervesen with the Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e752	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3668]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e760	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e944	The Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against New Sections 13-7 (a) and II (new Sections 7-1 (e).
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e959	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e969	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e976	During the debate, Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for additional appropriations to the police as a result of additional costs relating to the enforcement of the new legislation.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal will be entered on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e1060	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e1070	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e1275	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e1285	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-04.ana.ud2394e1305	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
