ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e83	If anyone's wondering why we're waiting to set the meeting, it's because we intend to follow the constitutional requirement that the Stortinges meeting can be legally set. Preliminary reports indicate that we now lack one representative to do so, so if someone could have hired a vessel, it would have been nice! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e91	On behalf of the big business representatives Oskar Jarle Grimstad, Henning Skumsvoll and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on Norwegian hydropower policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e96	The representative of Torkil Åmland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e99	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to strengthen local land management in the beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e104	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e118	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e125	In this case, it is requested that the Government through Stortinget ensure that Telenor's shared company VimpelCom does not establish itself in the tax haven of Bermuda. The story behind this establishment is that for a long time there were conflicts and lawsuits between Telenor and Russian Altimo related to ownership and further development of Kyivstar, which was a Ukrainian company, and VimpelCom, which was a Russian company. Telenor and the Russian co-owners Altimo, who are the Alfa Group's telecommunications company, entered into an agreement on 5 October 2009 to merge the mobile companies VimpelCom and Kyivstar into a new company: VimpelCom Ltd. This Agreement contains, inter alia, the following items in the Agreement: establishment in Bermuda, resolved the long-term conflict between Telenor and Alpha. The company states that the establishment of Bermuda is not for tax reasons but to ensure the possibility of having the company registered in a neutral and well-developed jurisdiction. As I said, the new company will be registered on Bermuda based on American legislation, listed on the New York Stock Exchange and headquartered in the Netherlands. The new company is tax credited to the Netherlands. This means that the company is subject to the strict information rules applicable under US law. The company normally pays taxes where the enterprise takes place, e.g.: in Russia or Ukraine, while tax issues relate to, for example: dividends will be payable in accordance with Dutch rules. A Joint Committee is also aware that Norway signed an Transparency Agreement with Bermuda in spring 2009 which strengthens transparency and thereby weakens the ability to hide operations in Bermuda. A single committee also refers to the ownership notification, St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, and notes that the active business management of the company is on the company’s board of directors and company’s board of directors and that the company has acted within the powers conferred by the share laws of its decisions. The handling of this matter once again shows that the state behaves neatly and professionally in its ownership. A Joint Committee therefore requests that the document be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e144	It is an important question for the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide and others. record. The red-green government has engaged strongly in the fight against tax havens. In recent years, we have had a leading role in international work in this area. It is important to get an open system and ensure that countries can get their tax revenues. Tax havens undermine the community and well-being of those countries that miss legitimate tax revenue. Minister for the Environment and Development, Erik Solheim, pointed out that a system of tax havens is particularly hard on poor countries. It is therefore particularly important to counter tax evasion and tax havens. In June 2009, Erik Solheim received the report Skattenparadis and development. Here, the effects of tax havens are documented. The report refers to the combination of establishment in the Netherlands and Bermuda as harmful. Amanuensis Hugo Matre of the University of Bergen says to the NRK that the Netherlands and Bermuda combination is a classic way of saving taxes. In the big news of an active and long-term ownership, the red-green government has put great emphasis on social responsibility. The Ownership Notice states that state-owned companies, whether wholly or jointly, are to be profitors when it comes to social responsibility. The message includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Core values in social responsibility are protecting the environment and ensuring good social conditions globally as well as locally.’ As mentioned earlier, tax havens can be a challenge for social conditions globally. In view of this, it is surprising that Telenor was able to establish the new company in Bermuda in combination with the Netherlands. But state ownership has a clear and long-term control signal in the main focus. Therefore, it is not appropriate to support the proposal of the Christian People's Party. SV's strategy is to be more precise in our demands in the next ownership message, so that we avoid unlucky individual cases. Otherwise, it is interesting to see the great gap in ownership policy among the opposition. The Christian People's Party will intervene in a single matter, and the other parties criticise the Government for excessive detailed management. I am afraid the Christian People's Party had received little response to its vision in a possible civil government project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e168	State ownership, as private ownership, must have the primary objective of contributing to the long-term value creation and industrial development of companies. This requires companies to be competitive over time. The State must design its ownership in such a way that this necessary assumption is not impaired. The Christian People's Party is critical of the Government's administration of state ownership. A pattern has been created with little predictability and random actions, which may weaken the confidence of the state as its owner. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has acted particularly critically in connection with the acquisition of Aker Holding and in connection with the sale of BaneTele AS to the Bredband Alliance AS. In addition, the Government has shown a passive ownership of issues related to ethics and corporate social responsibility, including environmental considerations. This applies, inter alia, to: StatoilHydro's investments in climate-friendly oil sands in Canada. Today, the state's exercise of its role as a majority shareholder in Telenor is the starting point for the debate. I refer to the proposal of the Christian People's Party to ensure that Telenor's shared company VimpelCom does not establish itself in the tax haven of Bermuda. It is important that the Government sets a good example in combating tax havens. Tax havens offer secret, fictitious residence and zero tax to attract capital and income that would actually have been taxed in other countries. Tax havens generally provide less transparency and transparency in business and create opportunities for corruption and money laundering. The secrecy of tax havens means that different investors receive different information, contributing to market failures. An important lesson from the financial crisis is that responsible authorities in different countries must join forces to fight tax havens in order to achieve better regulation of international financial markets. These elements were central to the report of the government-appointed Capital Flows Committee, which presented its report in 2009. The Ecocrime Hearing Opinion of the Capital Flows Committee underlined the importance of the consistent and active fight against tax havens: «ECOCRIM will highlight the importance of consistency in the view of tax havens, so that we do not use the structures of tax havens when appropriate, while at the same time we are concerned with combating the adverse effects of the same structures.» The State that owns must set profit or loss targets for the companies for long-term market returns in those companies in which it has primarily business objectives. This does not prevent the State that owns at the same time from clarifying the expectations that companies have a strong focus on how to take into account, for example: environment, migration, diversity, ethics, research and development and the fight against tax havens can be followed up in the company's design and follow-up of business strategies. On this basis, I refer to the following proposals, which are in the vote: ‘The government is actively asking for the full-time and rented state companies not to establish themselves in tax havens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e193	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e196	It is a well-known case that over several years there have been conflicts and legal cases between Telenor and Russian Altimo related to ownership management and further development of Kyivstar and VimpelCom. A merger of these two companies is an opportunity to resolve the conflicts between Telenor and Alfa. The state's ownership policy is defined in St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, where the government assumes that the State should be an active, long-term and predictable owner of key Norwegian companies. In the Central Party we have confidence that a solid Norwegian company such as Telenor is able to manage the state's interest even if the company operates internationally. The government has a long-term perspective on its ownership. It also implies an active attitude towards the growth and plans of companies as regards initial investment and investment in research and development. The State that owns will deal actively with the soundness and funding of the companies. This is done by expressing expectations of returns and dividends from companies, but also by looking at this in relation to financing future growth. An active ownership implies that the country takes a decision on significant growth plans, whether in the case of acquisitions or initial investments. The State must not become an owner which prevents State or state companies from competing with private companies under the same conditions. By competing internationally, companies may gain greater competence and markets, which could also be an important prerequisite for the long-term, good industrial and value-added development of their activities in Norway. In spring 2009, Norway signed a transparency agreement with Bermuda that strengthens transparency and thus weakens the possibility of hiding activities there. The central party believes that it is important to show active ownership of its companies and that it is right to follow the development of its companies both nationally and internationally. The Central Party shall support the majority of the Committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e215	The state organises its ownership in several ways. This is done, among other things: through fund-based solutions. We have State pension funds abroad, as per Today the joint owner – I was saying the owner of – is approx. 1 pst. of the world's shares. I expect that it is not this type of portfolio representative Rigmor Andersen Eide believes that one should go into it to influence that these companies are not approaching Bermuda. The reason why I took the floor was that the Council of State in a letter he sent to Stortinget on 25 January 2010 explained well why we should not go into this process. I'll give honor to the Council of State for the way he's handled it. It's completely in line with the role distribution you're supposed to have, being a professional owner and not interfering prematurely in the inner affairs of a company. I think there are relatively many in this room who should be very happy that the partially state-owned company Telenor has just been able to reach the agreement that concerns VimpelCom. If not, significant values could be at stake. But I am very concerned when I hear the representative Holmelid. In his post here, he argues in a completely different way from what the Council of State does in its letter to the Stortinget. The state council is acting in a very tidy manner on the business, which we have to do in these matters. There are also very many owners in Telenor – we must not try to make it as if the state is the sole owner of this company, there are a lot of shareholders, and there are people's shares. Then I get worried when I hear the representative Holmelid from SV, for what is going to be the government's policy ahead? That is why I hope the Council of State can confirm here in its statement that it is what comes out of the letter to the Committee, which is the current policy, and not the strange presentation that the representative Holmelid had from this pulpit, which raises doubts about how the Government will deal with this in the time to come. So I look forward to the articles of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e224	This is, in many ways, a strange debate, which is about everything other than what is really going on. Then I'm going to exempt a couple of the posts. The representative, Holmelid, says that this is an expression of a ‘classical way of saving taxes’, and that when you see the connections between the Netherlands and Bermuda, you know that something is going wrong. He concludes that this is an unfortunate individual matter. I will ask the representative Holmelid to read the excellent statement from the state council Trond Giske, who tells just what this matter is. There is no tax avoidance operation at all. This is in completely transparent conditions. Tax will normally be paid to the Netherlands, and this is a good way for Telenor to solve some of the negotiating issues that have been raised. In addition, the Council of State has written to the Committee just how companies in which the State owns — not alone, well to mark, but actually a minority victory, as it is in Telenor — should handle it, and that it should be done through the board. When I hear this post from Holmelid, without SV having their own comments or having expressed themselves in other ways in the setting, and also when I hear the speakers of the Central Party use the opportunity to talk about how the state should use its active ownership, I would like to remind the Council of State – which has not done anything wrong in this matter, on the contrary – that we might be approaching the time for a new ownership message. I have asked him questions about it earlier. I think his colleagues in the government parties express themselves in such a way that it would be good to get a new round of not too long, so that the positions are clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e233	Let me first make it clear that the fight against tax havens is a topic that raises important questions and issues, on which the Government has a considerable attention, and on which we are actively working. These include: the background to the 2008 reduction in the so-called Capital Flows Committee, which delivered its final report in 2009, and of course we will continue to do so. With regard to Telenor’s establishment of a joint venture with Russian Altimo in Bermuda, I would like to point out that on 5 October 2009, Telenor announced that it had entered into an agreement between Telenor and the Russian media owners Altimo to merge the mobile companies VimpelCom and Kyivstar into a new joint venture, VimpelCom Ltd. As is well known in this Chamber, there have been conflicts and legal cases between Telenor and the Russian joint owners over several years related to ownership management and the further development of these two mobile companies. The agreement provides for the possibility of resolving the conflict between Telenor and Altimo. It could therefore also be important to ensure the values of the State in Telenor. As I explained in my letter of 25 January 2010 to the Committee, the new merged company will be registered on Bermuda based on American law, listed in New York and headquartered in the Netherlands. In tax terms, the new company will sue the Netherlands. In this context, I would like to point out that in spring 2009, Norway signed an Transparency Agreement with Bermuda, which strengthens transparency and with it weakens the scope for hiding activities there. As I have further explained in my letter to the Committee, the registration in Bermuda is linked to the overall solution that the parties have come up with. The establishment in Bermuda is further, after the company has informed in discussions with the Ministry, not for tax reasons, but to ensure that the company is able to be registered in a neutral and well-developed jurisdiction. The registration in Bermuda opens this up by allowing the company to register there, under New York jurisdiction and with a listing on the New York Stock Exchange. The new company VimpelCom Ltd. This will be subject to the strict rules on information applicable under US law. After I have been informed, the company will normally pay taxes in the individual countries where the business takes place, for example. in Russia and Ukraine. Tax issues related to dividends etc. will be handled in accordance with Dutch rules. In the management of the State's shares in large limited liability companies with international activities, I must assume that the commercial management of the company is entrusted to the company's administration and management, in accordance with normal share law. The majority, under several governments, with excellent ministers of industry, the President, has agreed that the ownership of the State should be managed according to the division of roles of the law. It was repeated at the latest in connection with the ownership message of the Stoltenberg I government, which was handled by Stortinget in the spring of 2007. On the basis of this, I do not see it as appropriate that the State should review the decisions made by Telenor ASA within the powers conferred by the General Share Act. Rather, we have to say that we are pleased that Telenor and its Russian partner now seem to have found a way forward, to better cooperate around their interests in the telecommunications sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e248	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e252	As the Council of State said, the Government is concerned about these issues and set up a public body of ten members, who resigned NOU 2009:19, Tax havens and developments. It was composed of a wide range of people with different political positions. In the case of tax havens, the headings of the NOU state that tax havens contribute to increasing the «risk premium in international financial markets», «the functioning of the tax system and public finances», result in «a more biased distribution of tax revenue», «the less efficient allocation of resources in developing countries», «the more profitable use of economic crime» and – finally – «the damage of institutional quality and growth in developing countries». It's not small things, what's the consequence of tax havens. Ecocrime says in its hearing opinion, which is referred to in the option: «ECOCRIM will highlight the importance of consistency in the view of tax havens, so that we do not use the structures of tax havens when appropriate, while at the same time we are concerned with combating the adverse effects of the same structures.» I think Ecokrim is in on some of the core. In the context of the State pension fund abroad, the Government has made good efforts to establish ethical guidelines, where one wants to change the behaviour of the companies through its small holdings in the companies in which it owns. One wants to change the behaviour of the companies – those in which one continues to participate – and there the Government will have a more offensive line in the future, so that one will turn the operation of the companies in what I would call a more civilized fellow humane direction. So here it's a good thing that we're doing it. In this case, it is clear that the steering signals given by the state’s representatives in Telenor are such that it is OK. I would say that is regrettable, and there must be new signals as soon as possible to those companies in which the state is a significant owner, so that we can avoid experiencing such things, and that at least we get the dilemmas clear and clear until a public change of words such that we are aware of what is happening. I think it is sad to experience that we put down samples, do strong things, and then we experience central Norwegian companies acting in a spirit that should be foreign to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e272	It is alarming that the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen is involved in this matter and regrets the operation of the publicly appointed members of the board in Telenor. I have to say that is directly alarming. It is quite clear that the central party in this case too would rather not be in the majority position. But you prefer to bring this in the hall, so you don't have to have it black on white. I must then be allowed to repeat: if you really believe that government work in companies where the state is a large owner, a small owner or whatever it may be, is to be arranged in a different way than what the council has written to the Stortinget, and as a result of the ownership message that we have treated almost three years ago, I hope that Per Olaf Lundtägen will support the undersigned and the Right in the wish to have a new ownership message to the Stortinget, so that both Lundtägen, his party, possibly and SV, who have expressed themselves here today, are given full publicity to say what they really think about this which they do not reach in the government in which they are sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e277	The President will only draw attention to the fact that the minutes of the meeting are taken, so what is said here, comes out also in black and white.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e280	This debate is now beginning to take a form and to move in a very worrying direction. Let me just start by saying: I fully support the proposal that a new ownership message should be drawn up. We have a red-green government taken out of three parties, and it is obvious that in this matter both the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have signaled a completely different way of entering individual companies than what is stated in the Council of State's letter to the Stortinget – to the Committee, sorry, so that it becomes correct, as it should be black on white. This is a strange way to drive ownership. And especially when I hear the introduction to the post of the representative Lundteg and a conclusion where he regrets the manner in which the board members have acted, this starts to have a completely different dimension. I almost have to ask the Council of State whether he asks himself behind the regrets of the representative of Lundtigen, because in that case the Council of State will remove these members of the board from this pulpit. So I would like to ask the Trond Giske Government Council to go to the interlocutory chair and to demand that the statement made here by the representative Lundtägen regrets the conduct of the state-appointed directors of Telenor. That's what's needed, because the Central Party is part of the government apparatus. The same is the Socialist Left Party. This may not be on the part of the members of the management board of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e287	It will be the occasion for Trond Giske, as he has asked for the word for a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e290	My parliamentary experience of years and years suggests that the word 'complaint' is a word to be used with caution by both government councils and government representatives. I note that there is a broad majority behind the Committee's position. This is entirely in line with what the department thinks should be ownership management, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2459]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e324	When hydropower expansion began in Norway over a hundred years ago, it was the beginning of the power-generating industry. Initially, this industry was placed near where the power was produced. As a result, today’s farms are scattered throughout the country. The power-processing industry is the second largest export industry in the country. Industry employs more than 25 000 people and is often the dominant corner stone company in its local area. In recent years, industry has experienced a negative trend. It is best shown when you look at the power consumption, which is decreasing. Power consumption in the power-processing industry is a good indicator of the development of enterprises. From 2008 to 2009 the power consumption fell by 20 pst. Some of this decline is due to energy efficiency improvement. In the case of long-term power agreements, on which this industry is wholly or partly dependent, 2010–2011 is a time-share. Then the agreements, which were substantially concluded in the 1950s and 1960s, went out. Some companies have entered into new agreements, but few have satisfactory agreements until 2030–2040, which will be the traditional time horizon. The power-processing industry has been significantly reduced in the last ten years. More than 4000 jobs have been closed during this period, and by the largest closures Hydro Magnesium is mentioned on Hereya, Norwegian Forest Union in Skien, and Hydro Aluminium Søderberg facilities on Karmøy, with a total of 1,900 jobs. Many economists claim that the power - generating industry has lived well on cheap power and that this cannot continue in the future. These believe that it is better to sell the power to the rest of the world, as higher prices can be achieved there than in Norway. Professor Steinar Stroem would rather reduce the power-generating industry, sell the power to the rest of the world and use the manpower released for health and care tasks. It seems to me that Stroem forgets two essential aspects. If the power-processing industry in Norway is closed down, it generates approx. 35 TWh. Network costs for this amount of energy will be very high. There must be very many expensive cables built for the continent, which, according to Stroem, will be the taker of the surplus power. What Power overlooks is the social gain generated by the power-generating industry by electric currents. For parts of the melting and aluminium industry, the value of 1 kWh increases up to nine times during the processing of the production of the establishments. This is a social gain that the most intense export economists seem to forget. No export income is generated through health and care work, but through product exports. The power-processing industry in Norway is almost world-leading. Today, industry is leading the technological development of energy-efficient production processes for the production of metals and materials in many areas. Without equal power and environmental conditions, we no longer have long-term competitive metal production in Norway. Without this production, the key prerequisites for implementing breakthrough innovations from this industry are disappearing. I will now mention world-class innovations that some of these power-generating companies have, or are now implementing. Elkem Solar produces silicon for solar cells. Solar cells produce electricity without any emission of climate. The most important thing, however, is that the new factory in Kristiansand uses less than half as much energy as a factory with similar production, but with traditional technology. It makes the production of solar cells even more environmentally friendly, and solar energy becomes more competitive in relation to alternative forms of energy. On the list, Alcoa and Elkem build a large-scale plant with a completely new aluminium production process. The new process is 30 pst. lower energy consumption and the possibility of net emission-free aluminium production by using the CO exhaust gas for chemical production or energy production. In order to achieve the necessary global emission reductions, this type of technological development in major global industrial sectors is absolutely necessary. Norwegian enterprises have a world-leading role in the development of environmentally friendly and energy-efficient buildings and dwellings. Both Norsk Hydro and Orkla are at the top global in the development of new environmentally friendly construction solutions based in the Norwegian power-processing industry. After mentioning the Norwegian power-processing industry, a lot of people will wonder: what are the major problems that are getting signed to travel the interpellation? I'll get to that now. Power-processing companies compete on the global market and need competitive conditions. From the industry, concerns are expressed that energy costs and CO2 legislation for industry are significantly higher and stricter than those of the competing countries. The government boasts a strangely strict CO2 quota regime. In addition, the industry is deprived of ownership of hydropower that has to be purchased in the market with an additional CO2 premium in the price. Many economists and environmentalists want the power-processing industry to be phased out due to CO2 emissions. These reasons are incorrect. The Norwegian power-processing industry is the world's least polluting. Almost all the energy used comes from hydropower. While the Norwegian aluminium industry emits 8,5 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per. tonnes of aluminium, the figures for aluminium produced in China are 30 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per. tonnes of aluminium. In other words, Chinese works emit more than three times as much CO2 as Norwegian works emit. It seems naive to believe, as Professor Steinar Stroem claims, that the need for, among other things, aluminium will decrease if Norwegian aluminiumworks shut down their production. Already today, we see what happens when the framework conditions are different from one country to another. The large aluminiumworks of Norwegian Hydro in Qatar are a clear example of this. Here the company achieves cheap energy and low environmental taxes. Former Minister of Oil and Energy Åslaug Haga, who is now employed in Norwegian Industry, says to the magazine Energy News that Norwegian energy-intensive industry is based on renewable energy, has tough environmental requirements and the world's best technology. Moving production out of Norway is pointless. Although it is good for national climate accounts, it is not good for global accounts, says Haga. These are thoughts about the Norwegian power-processing industry that few – if any – share in the red-green government, but which most touches on the issue that exists in today’s political debate. If the power-processing industry is shut down or moved to countries with lower energy and CO2 costs, there will be significant adverse ring-effects, not least for District Norway. This doesn't seem to worry the red-green government very much. The EU considers carbon leakage to be a serious threat to the power-generating industry and therefore revised its Trade Directive in December 2008. One supporting element was to implement greenhouse gas emission reductions using allowances trading without leading to carbon leakage. Carbon leakage means that efficient industry is moved from countries with emission climate costs and in the power price to countries without such costs, with unchanged or increased global emissions as a result. The amendments to the EU Trade Directive apply for the period 2013 to 2020. The two main measures from EU changes for the Norwegian power-processing industry are: Undertakings exposed to carbon leakage shall be allocated up to 100 pst. free allowances for direct CO2 emissions. Member States may implement financial measures to sectors that are exposed to carbon leakage as a result of the cost of allowances passed through the power price. By actively exploiting the opportunities now established under the EEA Agreement, the Norwegian authorities may facilitate the further development of today’s Norwegian power-generating industry and new activities based on new Norwegian developed technology. If France, Spain and other competing countries introduce the compensation mechanism without the same action by the Norwegian authorities, competitors of the Norwegian power-generating industry will have significant competitive advantages. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the power-generating industry has a competitive framework — and can remain and grow in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e409	The interpellant addresses important questions that concern both me and the Government. The powerful industry is currently operating in troubled waters. In a short-term perspective, it is linked to the consequences of economic downturns. In a longer-term perspective, the picture is marked by competition from low-cost countries, climate challenges and global growth. Global competition is not new to this industry. It's been a central framework condition ever since the Days of Desert and Birkeland. Without global markets, there would have been no basis for the establishment of a fertiliser industry, an aluminium industry or a ferro-alloy industry in Norway. However, a number of important issues have changed over time. Among the most important are: Norwegian hydropower has been given a greater alternative value, giving rise to increased energy prices for industry. The EEA Agreement provides a framework for national measures. Increased globalisation provides competition from low-cost countries, but also larger and more integrated markets. Greenhouse gas emissions are being priced, but we do not yet have a global climate agreement in place. Increased prosperity and growth in other industries in Norway are demanding high profitability. These changes mean that we need to apply a different policy today than the measures presented in the 1950s industrial initiative. When the economic landscape changes, policies must also be changed. Although we in Norway have been able to cope with the financial turmoil with Europe’s lowest unemployment, individual industries such as the power-intensive industry have been hampered. 2009 was the weakest year for industry in Norway in modern times. Aluminium prices fell by 60 pst. The aluminium export went down by 36 pst. Luckily, we see signs of improvement, but the growth happens from a low level. While last year's aluminum price was down to $1,300 a.m. Now, tons, it's now up to $2,300 per. tonnes. Other metal prices have also been well developed, but the situation for Norwegian metal companies depends to a large extent on the markets to which they supply them. The government has implemented a number of measures to reduce the negative impact of the financial turmoil. Several of these measures have benefited the powerful industry. Concrete examples are flexible permitting arrangements, temporary tax reliefs by re-establishing deficits against profits for previous years, and increased investment in the training and competence of the enterprise. The capital market measures and the reduction of interest rates have also meant a great deal. The aim of the measures has been to strengthen the business out of the financial turmoil. The era’s melting plant in Saudi became almost the industrial symbol that the financial turmoil also reached Norway. The Western world stopped buying ferro-manganese almost overnight, and the smelters in Saudi Arabia were hit early by extensive lay-offs. 200 employees were transferred in half an hour. However, now the optimism is back in Sauda, and the permit is back to work. The flexible permitting arrangements have led many companies to opt for leave over dismissals. It testifies that businesses have faith in the future. However, there is little the authorities can do to compensate for reduced demand and lower prices of products produced by this industry. It requires the global activity to resume. The government has implemented a number of long-term measures against the power-intensive industry. It is about facilitating the further development of profitable jobs and pursuing a responsible economic policy that leads to a level of interest rates and a price at which this industry can live. Several measures have also been put in place to ensure the balance of forces and the development of new forces. There are also plans for further development, including: through renewable energy deployment through a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. Since its establishment in 2001, Enova has contracted more than 13 TWh in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. About 3.5 TWh has come through Enova's programmes aimed at industry. In total, industry has received aid commitments of around 890 million. kr. To support the conclusion of commercial power contracts, we are now establishing a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry power purchases. The scheme shall be managed by GIEK and provided a framework of DKK 20 billion in the 2010 budget. The scheme will be operational as soon as it has been approved by ESA. We've also put in place a 40 million grant scheme. kr for industrial establishments establishing joint purchasing consortia of power. As the interpellant takes up, today there are different regulation of CO2 emissions around the world. It is demanding for establishments planning for the future. Therefore, a global climate agreement and a common price of emissions would be the best. But pending a joint agreement, we cannot fail to address the climate challenges. The challenges require that we act now. That's why we have to work intensively in parallel for good international agreements, while doing our homework here in Norway. The quota system is one of Norway’s main climate policy instruments. The government has determined in the government platform that emissions from the power-intensive industry should be regulated within the EU ETS. From 2013 will be about 50 pst. of EU greenhouse gas emissions and 60 pst. emissions from Norwegian territory shall be subject to allowances. It strengthens the efficiency of the quota system. Independently of the auctioning of allowances, the allowance obligation will set industry against the emission costs defined by the allowance price. As a result, emissions are given an alternative value and enterprises will adjust their activities accordingly. As a result, environmentally friendly changes are promoted. It's a step in the right direction. All sectors must contribute. At the same time, we must ensure that climate regulation contributes to real emission reductions globally. We are not served by a system that causes Norwegian and European industry to move to countries without emission obligations. It's the main thinking behind all of our actions in this area. We don't help the environment by moving carbon emissions from one country to another. The government is closely following the process of revising the EU Trade Directive. However, it is too early to say how all parts of the Directive will affect Norway. The aim is to find a device that ensures Norwegian climate policy and Norwegian industrial policy in the best possible way. I believe that Norwegian industry, and its ability to convert in an environmentally friendly way, will also show up in this situation. We know that the industry has succeeded before. Over the period 1990–2008, the industry reduced its climate emissions by a total of 27 pst. Environmental requirements focused on technology development and energy saving. These are measures that are now considered to be among the industry’s foremost competitive advantage. At the same time, we know that industry is ready to make new environmental investments. Alcoa and Hydro have come a long way in developing the next generation of aluminium technologies. The Eramet, Finnfjord and Elkem have announced concrete energy recovery projects. Fesil has exciting plans for solar investments in Orkanger. The government is concerned about creating profitable jobs. It involves stimulating innovation, further development and transformation, not maintaining unprofitable businesses. There are many good examples of conversion in the powerful industry that have contributed to increased profitability and job security. The switch from Søderberg to ‘prebake’ technologies in the aluminium industry is an example of the first. The same applies to the development of Yara’s cleaning technology for manufacturing fertilizers. The establishment of the solar industry in Norway is an example of the last, and the next can be materials for windmills offshore. Tinfos in Odda already delivers to this market today. Norwegian industry works every day to reach global competition in its industry. However, we as the authorities must facilitate fair competition and provide a basis for good results. Our industry can manage if it gets competitive on equal terms. Our main effort is to facilitate further development of the industry. This is why we are focusing on research and development, so that Norwegian industry can be at the forefront of technological development. For this reason, we have established a new eco-innovation grant scheme under Innovation Norway. The scheme may include, inter alia: support the construction of pilot and demonstration plants in the power-intensive industry and contribute to the efficiency, even more profitable and even more environmentally friendly of the next generation of metal melting technologies. We will make it attractive to invest in long-term environmental technology projects so that industry can mobilise its resources. Me and the Government will contribute to the foreseeable framework conditions. Industry is part of the climate solution. Norway and Norwegian industry have all the prerequisites for participation. It is industry’s ability to be innovative, to solve problems and to be effective that is the recipe of a low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e477	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Clearly, the government’s management of the economic situation in the country that was a few years ago has produced results. But that's really not what the industry is asking about. What the industry is asking is whether the competitive disadvantages or differences that exist between Norway and the rest of the world can be addressed. The industry today pays approx. 12 øre/ kWh for climate emissions, and when you think about the main power coming from Norwegian water, it is already a distortion of competition. The fact that the EU now considers carbon leakage as important is clear, because in other parts of the world there is no tax on energy or on climate emissions. I agree with the Council of State that on the day we get a similar global climate tax, this problem will be solved. But until then, we can make the industry we have in Norway disappear. That's what we're happy about in this industry are afraid – that you can't survive with the conditions you have. If you're going to do what the Ministry of Finance wants, and use 2 pst. coal power, the whole force shall be subject to a CO2 tax. This will create major problems for the industry. The government's work on fair competition is very good, and I think that companies also appreciate it very much. However, the industry does not feel that the Government is really very concerned about what is happening to the EU Trade Directive. It looks like the EU may have a greater pressure on it today. In a larger look in Today's Business on 6 November 2009, trustees in the aluminium industry are alerting. They point to the fear of the closure of production which may lead to the disappearance of some rural areas in Norway and more or less to disappear. The Chief Trustee, Billy Fretagsvik from Hydro, says the following: ‘Smoking Hydro, the whole village and parts of the county are shattered.’ The power-processing industry is the cornerstone of industrial activity in many municipalities. Norwegian top leaders fear that European business will be left alone with the responsibility and the bill for climate goals. This is said by the top leaders who attended the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, to the Evening Post on December 14, 2009. So my question is whether the Council of State can do anything to assure the people who are concerned about this, that it's going well for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e500	What I can assure you is that the Government will do everything we can to facilitate the industry in Norway, including this part of it. But it is also the case that when markets disappear, and the global metal industry – at least the aluminium industry – goes for three-quarters of a machine, Norwegian companies will also notice it. We see how the Chinese enter the global market with large investments, large production facilities and large capacity. It also affects the framework conditions for Norwegian companies. There's only one solution to that, and it's that we continue to be innovative and develop next generation technology, that we can produce the same amount of metal with less energy and less emissions, and that we're also preparing for the international climate regime that will sooner or later come. Then we have to make sure that we have equivalent framework conditions. It is about the competitive situation internationally. We spend a lot of time, both through trade agreements through the WTO and through direct contact with countries, working against subsidisation competition, against protectionism, against other countries using instruments that we believe to be wrong, and which make our businesses less competitive. We must also be active in the work of the EU ETS. We have to be active in relation to what kind of energy contracts we can give our businesses when some of these contracts expire. Some are already running out in 2012. Others have contracts up to 2020, and some others, like in Årdal, have very long contracts on energy. We're also conscious of this. The production of aluminium has been a good industry for Norway for many years. Our metal industry has also provided the basis for the solar venture – and for other material technologies. This is a cluster of skills that we're going to take care of, and that we're going to live on in the future, and the government is very conscious of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e509	Parts of industry, similar to many other industries, really slid down in 2009. Low interest rate does not balance for reduced demand and lower prices. For example, aluminium prices range from $3,300 to $1,300 per. tonnes and exports decreased by 36 pst. The government has seen many targeted measures to mitigate the effects of the financial turmoil, but I would nevertheless point out that for the export-righted industry, this crisis is not enough. It's the aluminium industry I know best, and it had a weak result in 2009. The measures the industry itself refers to, in addition to low interest rates, are the measures taken by the Government in relation to the rules of leave, exceptional depreciation measures, temporary tax reliefs and increased ability to increase the level of competence within its own enterprise. These were very useful and important measures. In the 2010 budget, there was a back-up scheme for industrial enterprises establishing a consortium for joint purchasing power. And the Soria Moria Declaration states that emissions from power-intensive industries should be regulated within the EU's quota system. As most people here know, the red-green government also established a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry with a framework of 20 billion dollars in the 2010 budget. This will be operational as soon as approval is obtained from ESA. The issue of the guarantee scheme was also a topic when the Business Committee was visiting Brussels this week. Here was referred to the letter from the Ministry of Commerce and Food, which had come in response to what the ESA had asked in writing. ESA will then have two months to decide if new elements will occur in the meantime. It is good that the Progress Party's representative was occupied by the power-intensive industry. We in the Labour Party have always been, but I can't help but point out that there is just a lack of understanding of the climate challenges at the bottom of it so that we can't put in place global agreements within climate action. The party of progress has not exactly been ambassadors to set up a new climate agreement. It is also a fact that one in Norway has imposed stringent environmental and emission requirements on the industry, which has actually led to the industry in Norway being a leader in environmental technology today. The focus on energy efficiency improvement also has results. This gives our industry a great competitive advantage today. For climate taxes to reduce emissions, it is important to prevent carbon leakage, i.e. prevent Norwegian or European enterprises from moving to countries with weaker emission requirements, where appropriate without emission requirements. This only increases the overall emission, not decreases. Here too, we see that the market does not regulate everything itself, but must be governed. A good example is just climate taxes. If all countries agree to have global CO2 impacts, this will again be applied to the prices of the goods, and the industry will not have any problems with this. Our industry is doing well when he gets to compete on equal terms. I have also been on company visits to Alcoa and Elkem in the South. I then got a glimpse of the research and the test project they had started, where they expect a reduction in energy consumption of about 30 pst. at the production of aluminium. I also visited Hydro's research base in Årdal with the Minister of Industry. There we got insights into another trial project, including about 30 pst. reduction in the energy consumption of aluminium production. This shows that Norwegian companies take responsibility. It is very gratifying that these research projects have continued at the same level, also in the difficult year 2009. The government's investment in Enova has been important and correct in that context. We have a red-green system in place within Innovation Norway that deals with just environmental technologies. This is a good and forward-looking new order on which we will invest more in the future. In the end, I'd like to associate a few words with a setback, which I hear from several representatives of the Progress Party refer to as if the industry is deprived of ownership. So far, I don't know anyone who's sold out yet, and the ability for private people to buy in by up to one-third in 100 pst. public-owned companies, in fact, are there as an unused resource. The water resources are Norway's entire resource. For this reason, it is important that the courts fall back to the country after certain years, as is the case with the relapse regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e542	I assume that the Council of State wants the industry well and will develop it. I will be so positive to say that he also sees that the industry will not be refurbished for climate policy purposes. There, however, he has a job to do internally in the Government, and that is exactly why we challenge the Minister of Industry in this debate and not the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Oil and Energy. We've tried that before, and we've felt like we're talking to deaf ears. It still tastes a bit of party speech when I hear the Minister of Industry talking about this topic. There are many issues that are discussed, but where industry points out that they need clarification, we are not getting any clarification today either. The Progress Party and I have visited almost all the major industrial sites in Norway in the last two years. There are two themes coming up everywhere. Everyone accepts that we can't do anything politically about the demand for products, but we can do something about the competitiveness of businesses compared to their foreign competitors. The two themes that have emerged relate to power and the CO2 regime. This significantly affects the conditions of competition vis-à-vis the rest of the world. All the other things that the Council of State has mentioned – GIEK, etc. – there is cross-political support at the back. These are the two main areas of conflict which industry also points to. Therefore, it is important that we remove political uncertainty about this, so that industry dares to go further. We need to ensure that the framework conditions are adapted to the framework conditions of our competitors, so that it is the best and most environmentally friendly companies globally that survive, and not those that establish themselves in countries without environmental legislation in the next few years. We must avoid competition from Norwegian industry as a result of Norwegian framework conditions. I notice that the Minister of Industry does not want to move emissions, and that he says he wants a level playing field. That's good. Let me therefore challenge him on three specific points, in which case the policy of the Government must be changed. Today, Norwegian industry receives CO2 costs that their competitors do not have. Then you can talk about having international framework conditions in the long term that will add the same CO2 costs to everyone in one industry. It's important. It supports the Progress Party. That is why, before the Copenhagen negotiations, we also said that we wanted to reach a global agreement that is the widest possible, but if it becomes weak, tight, in the way that the Kyoto agreement was, it has no point. Item No 1 on which I will challenge the Council of State is CO2 costs on my own emissions. We know that the EU is beginning to see that competitive disadvantages can be great if EU industry receives CO2 costs from its emissions that competitors do not have. That's why they work with exceptional arrangements. They work for the most part of the allowances to be allocated free of charge for a period of time, while the Government has repeatedly warned that this is not allocated free of charge in Norway after 2012. The government says the industry itself has to pay for this. The Workers' Party's Energy Policy Spokesman, Tore Nordtun, said so in a press release of August 2008. At the latest in the Stockholm Questionnaire on Wednesday, Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, said that – and especially for the Kårstø gas power plant in this example – it is ‘different’ for industry if they have to pay for allowances or if they receive them free of charge. It is not at all because if the Norwegian industry has to pay for all its allowances while its competitors get them free of charge, there is a cost that makes the Norwegian industry's margin worse and that its competitiveness is getting worse. Will the Council therefore provide a fundamental clarification today that Norway will allocate CO2 allowances in the same way to Norwegian industry as the EU will to its industry? You don't have to talk about level here. It could be 0 pst. free or 100 pst. For free, but that we do the same thing as the EU, so that no Norwegian industry needs to be afraid of this point. The second point is the CO2 component of the current prices. By the fact that the EU has CO2 allowances in place, and there is a lot of coal power, there will also be a CO2 component in the Norwegian electricity price as long as we are integrated into the European market. In the EU, industry is working to remove this CO2 component, to be compensated in some way. When we challenged the Government on this both in 2008 and 2009, both Minister of the Environment Solheim and Energy Minister Terje Riis-Johansen rejected that some compensation would be possible, because it would undermine the point of the Norwegian Climate Change Act. But once again, if Norwegian industrial companies are forced into the market to pay for the CO2 component in electricity due to the fall-back scheme, they will have a lower competitive situation. Will the Council of State ensure that Norway is given the same opportunities for exemption as industry in other countries? The third point is on industrial power. Relapse has resulted in Elkem selling its hydroelectric power plants. There was a government error. However, nine months after the guarantee system was delivered, there are many uncertainties about the design here. For companies like the Finnfjord AS melting plant, it is important that this design is put in place very quickly. Can the Council of State say something about when it will happen, when the guarantee schemes are in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e594	The representative, Skumsvoll, raises an important question for the Norwegian industry. I myself have worked in the power-intensive industry in much of my working life. I started in the industry about at the same time that it was faced with strict cleaning requirements for emissions to air and water. Many predicted that these clean-up requirements would weaken the industry, but it got on the contrary strengthened by the fact that the developed technology that was not only useful for the climate but was useful for efficient production. Both the cleaning technology and part of the waste product are currently high-value products that are being traded at a good price. An example of that is the product microsilica, which is actually one of the world's first nanoproduct. Because of this environmental effort, today we have a highly skilled industry of high international standards in terms of environmental requirements and productivity. This shows that good environmental policies can be good industrial policies, and good industrial policies can be good environmental policies. Today we see a little bit of the same thing. Elkem in Kristiansand went through the traditional market, and they went over to make silicon for solar cells. This is one of many examples of the international climate action creating new markets that often provide better profitability than traditional markets. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, recently presented the World Energy Outlook 2009 report. It shows strong growth in markets related to climate and environment. The Norwegian industry is on the offensive in this market, for which they must have great credit. World Energy Outlook 2009 also points to the need to invest heavily in energy savings. It has been taken by the Government in many ways. Finnfjord Melting plant received SEK 175 million last year. kr for energy recovery. As many have been in the past today, Elkem Aluminium and Alcoa Aluminium have received 35 million. kr to develop a new prototype for a more efficient aluminium process. Since 2001, as the Minister mentioned, Enova has provided nearly DKK 1 billion in support of energy recovery in power-intensive industries. It has triggered 4 TWh, corresponding to five to six Alta power plants. The government has also been busy ensuring the right of return for Norwegian hydropower. The water force is an eternal natural resource that we must ensure for the community and for future generations. The alternative could easily be that this heirloom comes into the hands of the large international power group. I think that would be the same for the Progress Party. But neither the Norwegian industry nor the community will be interested in it in the long term. Last summer, the government presented an industrial power regime with a guarantee of $20 billion, to which several people have been living before today. It provides the basis for a stable framework for industry. The implementation of this regime is well under way, and discussions with ESA go according to plan. We are aware that many are impatient after getting all the pieces in place, so it is important to follow up this work. I can also learn that this industry today has 100 pst. free allowances on CO2 emissions from the process. This winter we have had periods of untimely high power prices in parts of the country. This is a result of the market forces, which the Progress Party generally hails. Crisis is not just a supply crisis. It is also related to the market model and the interaction we have with Sweden. SV believes that there is a need to analyse this situation carefully in order to assess whether the laws and regulations work according to the purpose. A few days ago, Alcoa proposed that the power-processing industry could conclude agreements to reduce the impact when the supply situation is difficult. In a country where the power-generating industry accounts for much of its consumption, this is an interesting proposal. From 2013, the EU will set up a new CO2 allowance scheme. The purpose of the quota regime is that this industry should over time take its part in the climate challenges. The details of this regime are not in place. Soria Moria II suggests that the Norwegian power-processing industry should be regulated within the EU's quota regions. The government is following these developments carefully. As the previous representative pointed out, it is very important for the industry that we are close to the negotiations that are now taking place on the new quota regime from 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e621	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer he gave. The centre party is committed to facilitating the power-intensive industry. In this context, we show that the Government has implemented a number of long-term measures against this industry, which the Council of State had in mind in its response. For us in the Center Party, this is about facilitating the further development of profitable jobs. I would like to point out that more measures have been put in place to ensure the balance of forces and to develop new forces. There are also plans for further development, including: through renewable energy deployment through a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. Since its establishment in 2001, Enova has contracted more than 13 TWh in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. About 3.5 TWh of this has come through Enova's programmes aimed at industry. In total, industry has received aid commitments of around 890 million. kr. Earlier this winter, the Industry Committee visited one of the companies that received such support, Finnfjord AS, during the visit to Troms. Last year the company received 175 million. kr from Enova to its major energy recovery project, and they are in the process of planning the project. I have had the pleasure of following the company's plans for a long time, and this will have great effects, far beyond what the company has today, when it completes this project. In order to support the conclusion of commercial power contracts, the Government is now establishing a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry power purchases. The scheme shall be managed by GIEK and provided a framework of DKK 20 billion in the 2010 budget. The scheme will be operational as soon as it has been approved by ESA. The government has also put in place a grant scheme of 40 million. kr for industrial establishments establishing joint purchasing consortia of power. The centre party has faith in Norwegian industry and its ability to convert in an environmentally friendly way. We know that industry has implemented environmental measures before. In this context, I would like to point out that in the period 1990-2008, industry reduced its climate emissions by 27 pst. Environmental requirements focused on technology development and energy saving. These are measures that are now considered to be among the industry’s foremost competitive advantage. In the Centre Party, we are committed to making it attractive to invest in long-term environmental technology projects so that power-intensive industries can mobilise and invest. We are also concerned with the foreseeable framework conditions for industry and are looking forward to the operation of the guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry. The centre party is committed to the operation of this system as soon as possible. We know that there is great impatience in the industry, and it's important that we get this in place as soon as it's possible at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e640	The aim of Norwegian climate policy must be that action in Norway actually leads to real cuts, not only at home but also globally. Emissions shall be cut, not moved to other countries. To illustrate the importance of this, it may be worth mentioning that 1 tonne of aluminium produced on Norwegian hydroelectric power emits 2 tonnes of CO2. On the other hand, if you produce 1 tonne of aluminium on gas, you get an emission of 8 tonnes of CO2. If you produce it on coal, it gives you an emission of 18 tons of CO2. It says something about Norwegian production in Norwegian water as a good environmental measure. It also states that it is essential that no strange measures in Norway lead to emissions being cut at home, but increase globally. When Norway was to join the EU quota system for the current period, i.e. 2008–2012, the Government proposed a special regulation that had to be revised later. It led to root and uncertainty. The question is how the Council of State will ensure this time that Norwegian industry will have the best possible framework conditions in the EU's new quota system from 2013. What are his priorities in his dialogue with the EU on the new quota system? And how does he think that Norway should maintain both our competitiveness and fulfil the obligations of the climate agreement, also in the light of the proposals made in the Climate Action Plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e656	It's an important topic the interpellant addresses in this interpellation. I am also pleased that the Council of State Gieske says this is an important question both for him and for the Government. Then I hope that it will also lead to practical policies in 2010, because that is what we need in this important area. Power-intensive industries are important corner stone companies in many places around our country. I feel that many of these corner stone companies think forward-looking policies, forward-looking business policies and forward-looking development for the society they're part of, and I always find it exciting to visit them. The Council of State said in its contribution to the interpellant that the guarantee scheme will be put in place as soon as ESA approves it. Then we have to hope for an early approval from the ESA system. For industry, there is little time relative to its needs, for example: for power and long-term power agreements. Industry is pleased with the policy pursued by the Government, and also by the opposition, for a long time by establishing a guarantee scheme to ensure long-term power contracts. The establishment of a State loan guarantee scheme will allow this industry to pay for a longer period of time in advance. But we get clear signals from this part of the industry that there is also a lot of uncertainty about the design of the scheme. It is even said that there is so much uncertainty that you can't let election promises control your strategies. This is a big corner stone company in North Norway. They're afraid that this scheme, which the government launched with fire and bram in the election campaign, might come in too late. We know that there needs to be some legislative changes in this sector to put in place the necessary arrangements here at home, so that the power contract can be pledged for the loan, which is a key prerequisite for this type of industry. I think it is exciting both to hear the comments of the government representatives in this interview and also the opposition. I feel that we are equally impatient. What we need is for the government to deliver changes in law to the Storting, and then we all have to hope, as the Council of State also said, that ESA approves this arrangement, and that it can then come into force. But what we can do here at home is the job we're assigned to, to make the necessary legal changes, so that we get this system in place during 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e672	It's an important matter the interpellant focuses on. The framework conditions for operating with industry in Norway versus the rest of Europe are important, but it is also important to experience the same framework conditions within this country. We're probably more vulnerable to the situation in the rest of the world market than we like to believe. It doesn't make our job much easier, and that means we can't regulate and secure the industry from all the dangers that the market has to deal with. That is to say, the working party is very concerned about using the instrument and offering competitive framework conditions. Some of these frames can be handled faster than others. We saw this when the financial crisis hit us, and the market and the aluminium price collapsed. The warning lights flashed fast red, and we took responsibility and acted quickly where we could. Then the party also came with new paces and called for state interference in the market. One of the changes we made was the change in the permit rules. This allowed companies to permit longer — a few minor costs related to it — and not least to allow more people to participate and share the load through rolling platforms. This has led to employees, including: on Hydro Sunndal, jointly and severally entered for rolling platforms. The voltage is great around the start of Su 3, but the optimism is running. Power-processing industries are located in the districts and are often corner stone holdings which are the engine of a community. Therefore, there are also vulnerable jobs we are talking about in terms of housing in the districts. The government is committed to facilitating the power-generating industry, and a forward-looking Norwegian industrial policy can be ensured with long-term power agreements: today there are 15-year agreements, which should be possible in the long term – if necessary. It is important for our industry to have a competitive international environment related to the quota environment, as I said earlier. Looking at the environmental perspective of this, there is no doubt that the Norwegian industry using Norwegian hydropower, with a strong focus on environmental technology, is at the forefront. This industry has faced several challenges over time, representing an industry that more than some are highly dependent on predictability and long-termity. Access to electricity is also essential – and in this way the price is also important. Necessary investments will be allowed to wait if a person does not feel secure around these framework conditions. But investments are necessary to be in the front, and then you don't have to stand on the platform when the train has left. The same applies to government priorities. The government must continue to focus on the power-generating industry in Norway and work hard to establish a competitive framework for future investments. If anyone is able to deliver a good industrial policy in Norway, there is a government with the Workers' Party at the head! I am pleased that the Minister of Industry shows so much interest in the industry, and the dialogue with industry, employees and district trustees can be involved and contribute to the work of getting ready when the train leaves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e689	As has been said in the past from the Senter Party, the Senter Party has great faith in the industry. We have good raw materials, we have a lot of knowledgeable people, and we have enough capital. One of the big questions now is, what do we want with our raw materials? Are we going to sell to an international market where there is a growing need – for many soon? We see, for example: China’s interest in even going to Skaland Grafittverk on Senja to assess the possibility of getting access to raw materials. Are we going to bet on this commodity line in Norway, or are we going to bet on the processing line? It's perfectly obvious that if we bet on the processing line, there'll be more work – not the unemployed community. There's going to be demands for greater creativity, it's not going to be doing things like before. There will be greater demands for capital and less money to export to the rest of the world. Not least, it becomes much more demanding for government and big business to add framework conditions, so that we can get to that processing. But in the eyes of the Center Party, that's what has to happen. The line needs to be much more to process our raw materials – that is, long value chains. And the important thing is to secure long value chains on our renewable natural resources. In the case of energy sources, we have to distinguish between carbon-containing energy sources and non-carbon-containing energy sources. It is the energy that has carbon in it, which is the most important, and that energy source should be used less as energy and more as carbon – as the raw material for a number of products. In the power-intensive industry, it is perfectly obvious that one must process the energy that does not have carbon in it. It's the electricity that's based on a form that doesn't contain carbon. That's our tradition. There we have our assumptions, there we have our strength, and there we have our great opportunities. But it's central things that need to be put in place. I am very pleased with what the Council of State said, that the Government will ensure that it is attractive to invest in environmental technologies. In my image, it is that the state is willing to contribute to the state's ability to get a helping hand from the immature technological markets through an active industrial policy, so that it becomes economically viable to enter into the production processes that it is necessary to grow today and that will produce results in perhaps 10 to 15 years. The Council of State further stated that predictability at this point is important. For predictability is needed — there is a long-term need for action over a long period of time. Finally, I would like to say that for powerful industrial production, the energy price is a major pillar. Securing and recovering the competitive advantage of electricity for processing is one of our biggest tasks. We have the ability to process electricity in a way that is exemplary in relation to the rest of the world, because we have so much capital and thus so much ability to modernise the production processes and ensure a way of producing that meets the most important requirements for future industrial production. That is the challenge, and it is demanding: to secure and take back the competitive advantage of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e706	I must thank you for a good debate with many good contributions, and I must say I very much appreciated the last article from Lundtigen. That's exactly what we want; we want to use the electricity in Norway. But then we must not impose charges that make this industry unable to remain in Norway. Today the industry pays approx. 12 cents/kWh in charge. Why? Because we produce hydropower? Of course, it is for the state to collect taxes. And being the best in the charging sector is the worst thing we can be. Industry calls for predictability, for long-term contracts. Of course, prices have been very low – they were concluded 50–60 years ago – but the new prices must not be such as to distort the balance between competitors in Europe, which are the closest we can compare with. So much is said about the industrial power regime and the 20 billion-dollar framework. The industry says that there is a guarantee scheme for those companies that have such a bad economy that they are unable to pay for the power. That's not the case. The fact is that the power has to be sold to these companies at a competitive level, and then they must not be charged for the power produced by water. Tax on power is in Europe, but the power of coal is produced. That's two different things. Finally, I would also like to say that it is good that there is a great deal of consensus that these businesses should be maintained in the country. I'm also a little worried that if nothing is done or added even if the innovation in the companies is big, we will have problems with many of these companies. Disappearing from communities is of great importance to these communities. They're built around the businesses, many of them. If a state gives good conditions for these businesses to be viable, we have the best people we have the cheapest force we have capital. This is something we have to keep in Norway. This industry produces the purest metal. We have the cleanest products in the world, so we're the ones who have to keep doing it. If we put it down, it becomes coal power from South Africa, from China – anywhere this can be produced. But we have to produce it, because we are the producers of the purest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e717	Like the inter-pellant, I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It seems that there is a broad consensus that we should have an active industrial policy in Norway, that we should facilitate our natural resources to create jobs here at home, and that our large power resources should also contribute to industrial construction. It has not always been such that there has been a broad and unanimous political consensus on this. On the contrary, industrial construction has been a matter of political dispute. So this is very promising. But I must also say to the interpellant that we already have many systems and measures to build up under this industry. This applies both to the way the allowance system per. the design of the electricity charging system today and the structure of the electricity charging system. We are creating a strong Norwegian industry. And we're going to do that in the future. We will use the opportunities provided by future legislation, both in terms of an international climate agreement, in terms of the EU's renewed allowances system, in terms of energy pricing rules, and, of course, in terms of the opportunities we can contribute to facilitating technology development, innovation, research and development. Fortunately, the companies themselves take a great responsibility for this. Together with the representative Hegø, I was myself in Årdal and saw how Hydro is now developing the next generation of aluminium technology with – again – a strong reduction in energy consumption, and with emissions approaching zero vision. It shows that the most powerful innovative energy is found in the companies themselves. If we make it possible for our competent environments of competence to expand, they will find solutions that combine the objective of industry with the aim of taking care of our environment. We've been working on this for many years. But then it's not that it's just the market forces that lead to it. Then we also have to make sure to play on teams – the state and the public. We have to use the possibilities that our wonderful, natural Norway offers to build an industry, as the generations have done before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e728	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e755	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to an hour and a half and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e766	Poverty among children is serious and unacceptable. The proposers, the Committee and the Government agree that action needs to be taken, both to prevent some from becoming poor and to make it possible to get out of such a situation. There must be measures to make it possible to live a fairly good life during periods of poor advice. I share the impatience of the proposers, but not least the impatience of those who have lived in a permanent financial crisis for a long time. If we are to succeed, we need to develop more equitable and solidarity societies. The distribution policy must be strengthened. Those who have the least need more. Poverty does not bring anything good. Distress doesn't teach naked woman to spin; she freezes in the heel. In the book ‘Children’s Poverty’, which Redd Barna and Fafo came out with just before Christmas, the young sailors tell how they feel to have bad advice. That's where they say something very important. I didn't realize that I was poor until the other kids started bullying me for it, says a girl. She was good at school and good at football. But what helped when the clothes were inherited, the sports equipment was missing, and they didn't have the money to participate in where others were there? When one launched the book, these kids came up, and they said the bullying was bad. Having bad advice is bad, bullying is bad: Sick if we got money for new social clothes, we were bullied, because everyone knew that the money came from there, says a youth. No one in the social service ever talked to any of these kids who were in the system for years. It has to be fixed. This story to the young people in the book on child poverty, other research and thousands of enquiries I've been given over the years tells me that the worst thing is that we've got a society that looks down on people with bad advice. It's money that kind of creates our human value. What we can buy and consume shows who we are. If you don't have money, you're a zero. Extreme materialism and consumption have become the norm. When combined with a working life where the rate of change is high, the social conditions become very unsafe for many who are unable to cope with this pressure, and many of these are off the load. The community fits as a hand in gloves to successful, highly educated people, while more and more people get a growing experience of uselessness and powerlessness. And the kids get this message first. The government has brought down the Distribution Committee. They have presented their position, which shows that differences hurt, and that they create poverty. We have to put in place a stronger and better kindergarten, a good school, training and health care if you're unlucky and lose your job and get problems in life. Then we contribute most to the reduction of poverty and not getting caught up in it. Equality in living conditions produces better results. It also appears with all clarity in the book The Spirit Level, written by British socio-medical researchers Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett. The subtitle says it well: why societies with more equality almost always do it better. They compare a dozen rich countries and look at income differences and social indicators. The result is striking. At the point by point it turns out that societies with the least income differences, like our countries, are doing better, while societies with large income differences are doing worse economically, and people are getting poorer by it. Other undesirable things in society are also increasing, such as drug abuse, life expectancy is decreasing, child mortality is increasing, etc. It shows that the follow-up to the Distribution Committee is important in order for us to do well to create a society with less differences. Then it's important, when we're going to work with the Distribution Committee – the follow-up will come in 2011 – that we spend time working on it in the budgets to find measures that work especially for children who have difficulties now. I can mention three examples: Child protection: The statistics show that three out of four child protection children printed out by child protection are entitled to social assistance. We know who these kids are. We have to put measures in place before. Municipal Child Protection must be strengthened. Preventing dropout in high school is important. It is important not to give the young people who find a job and do well, a message that they are not doing anything that is desirable, but it is important to ensure a school that makes more things complete. Because we know that the rate of change, and the qualifications required, in the workplace today require competence. So this has to be strengthened. A simple measure that deals with what these kids mentioned in the book on child poverty, namely, being able to participate where others are, is activity support for young people living in disadvantaged families. In Ålesund Municipality they have developed what they call the Experience Card. I have to say I like that word very well. It's about getting good experiences with others. They've connected the escort to the map, so these kids can bring their mom and dad or a friend of the football game, the swimming pool or where it is now. It's nice to be able to go to the cinema, but it's pretty sad to have to go there alone. That's why it's important that we set up schemes very quickly so that these kids can participate in the other kids. I'm going to work to make it a reality as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e789	I will first give honor to the Christian People's Party to address an important matter. Poverty in Norway is not a problem for many. It's just as completely a serious problem that requires political focus. There is broad consensus in the Committee that there is a need for reinforced efforts to reduce and combat poverty, particularly among children. No one chooses their parents, their growing-up conditions, or their starting point in life. Therefore, when children are affected by poverty, it is extra senseless and unfair. In the last decades, differences have increased in Norway. There is political disagreement in the Committee on the extent to which we should focus on the increasing differences as a problem in itself. But there is a broad consensus that we should fight poverty and balance social and economic differences. To do so requires both long-term and short-term measures. We've had more poor people in Norway in recent years, and more poor children, according to our official statistics. If we base ourselves on the poverty targets of both the EU and the OECD, a clear picture emerges, namely that more people fall outside and become poor. It is a serious challenge, both politically and morally. At the same time, the Committee considers it important to have a broader view of what poverty is — a view that not only includes permanent low incomes but also relates the concept of poverty to economic and social problems. The Government’s Action Plan on Poverty uses a number of criteria, including: income inequality, the proportion of persons on continuing low income and the proportion without completed training. There is every reason to remember that poverty in modern Norway is not just about having bad advice. It is equally about social marginalisation, exclusion from the labour market and a lack of participation in society. This means that the fight against poverty must have a broad focus and cover far more areas than those directly included in the so-called poverty policy. There are major challenges in health policy and, in particular, health continues to coincide to a large extent with socio-economic factors. Education policy is essential both in order to give the child the best possible starting point in life, and because interrupted education and later poverty are largely interrelated. Similarly, family policy and labour market policy are important. Unlike in some other countries, there are few so-called ‘working poor’, i.e. working poor, in Norway. Rather, the Distribution Committee points out that very many of the poor in Norway operate under some form of government support scheme. There is an important reason why an overall committee believes that the line of work is important in getting people out of poverty. In this context, it is also worth noting that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy is behind the qualification programme, which is precisely the main objective of getting more people back to work. The Bondevik II Government put poverty policy on the agenda, and an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, notes that the poverty rate of the Bondevik II Government has continued under this government and that the appropriations for concrete poverty reduction measures have increased. By the end of this year we're in, it'll be NOK 3.9 billion more compared to five years ago. The majority also emphasise the importance of a raising of minimum pensioners, which was added to the poverty action plan. The majority also point out that there has been a much better housing support scheme, which has received broad political support in Stortinget. E.g.: More families with children and young people alone are now receiving help for the bout toxins. While the majority sees that appropriations have increased, the majority also underlines the need to focus on the outcome of the appropriations, not just on the amount of the appropriations. It helps little if we spend more money unless the result is that fewer people get out of poverty, or, at least, that life gets a little bit simpler for some of those who fall outside. Then I would like to comment on some of the concrete proposals to the Christian People's Party. With regard to the proposal to have national minimum standards for social assistance, a majority in the Committee has decided to look at the Ministry of Labour. A letter from the Council of State states that ‘will follow up the first evaluation by the Ministry of State guidelines for the measurement of economic benefits. [[social assistance]] A unanimous committee takes note of the response of the Council of State and the arguments for not attaching abstinence to household income health expenditure, including: because it is a small non-comprehensive instrument. The Committee believes that it is important to ensure a good framework for debt advice provided by non-governmental organisations and that the free legal aid system is important to support legal certainty for all citizens. At the same time, the Committee points out that the municipality has an obligation to provide debt advice and that guidance to persons with financial problems is a compulsory service at the Nav offices. A broad majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party, suggests that indebtedness counselling is a subject that requires competence and quality assurance services. Indebtedness advice should therefore be provided under public authority by consultants who receive continuous training and are quality assured through training and course arrangements in the labour and welfare management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e812	Since 2001, Norway has been at the top of the UN index on income, education and life expectancy — better known as the world’s best country to live in. Norway is at the top in terms of living conditions — not just because we are rich, but because prosperity in Norway is more evenly distributed than in most other countries. It's not random. It is a result of political choices and major political goals that have been far-reachingly achieved. We have gone from being one of Europe's poorest countries to becoming the richest because in the post-war period we have created great values. We went from the agricultural community through the industrial community to the knowledge society. There are also many other countries that have created great values without having managed to combat poverty in the same way that we have done in Norway. Why have we done that? Yes, because in Norwegian policy it has not only been about creating, it is also about sharing. The large values have formed the basis for a distribution policy in which the community has taken responsibility for broad welfare schemes, and the values have formed the basis for jobs. It has made us a long way on the way. The main goal after World War II was to rebuild the country and eliminate poverty. It was seen that the policy was to control the market – not the other way around. In doing so, we got a little after some growth from the welfare state. The labour market was made available to more people, and an active redistribution policy was pursued. Thousands of thousands came to work. The social and economic differences were reduced. Fewer had to hold hands, and the broad groups were well on the way out of poverty. The labour movement had a goal of a classless society without poverty where everyone was going, and it was far on its way with its project. But poverty in Norway is not even combated for everyone. In our time, there are still groups that fall outside. They deserve as much attention and effort from us today as the large groups received at that time. We have a long way left. Unfortunately, poverty in Norway today is not about hunger and need, but it is about social exclusion. So it's even more incomprehensible that we can't get rid of it. The vast majority of Norway have a high standard of living. Even more so is the contrast of those who are not allowed to participate in the development of wealth. In the last period, I was in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and we were working a lot on poverty there, a completely different type of poverty. We saw a lot of hunger and distress. Compared to the situation in the poorest countries in the world, everyone in Norway has been very well aware of this, but there is no comfort for those who today experience standing on the platform. There is no comfort for the children who grow up in families with such low incomes that they do not get to participate in other children’s participation. Too many children today live in poverty. We know that there are inequalities in opportunities, which persecute them for the rest of their lives. The children are the most important resource we have. The fact that poverty is reproduced, and that it offers fewer opportunities through life, is – to quote my good friend Odvar Nordli, who has committed himself strongly to the poor children – a shame. The fact that children have to live in poverty in Norway today is nothing but a shame. So although the UN image of Norway as the world’s best country to live in is correct, this is also a picture of today’s Norway. In fact, children have different possibilities. People feel economic insecurity, insecurity, social devaluation and low self-esteem. Poverty is disease-causing, it robs children of childhood, it is isolated, it is passivating, and it is reproduced. The main means of combating poverty in today's Norway is still, as it was in the post-war period, to create work for all. We know that poverty affects people with different backgrounds, has different causes and different consequences, but a common feature is unemployment or exclusion from working life. Those who fall out of the labour market are also more easily excluded from other parts of society, and too many are there today. Too many people are out of work, some in the short term, others are out for good, others never get the chance. In the world’s best country to live in, too much of the population lives on the minimum benefits of the social office — a short-term security solution that, for some, becomes too long-term income. Getting those who are out of work today, access to work, getting people out of passive services and entering into activity is the most important instrument in balancing living conditions, and that is why the main task of the Government is to do. This is facilitated by an active labour market policy, an active industrial policy, a high level of action and not least by a strengthening of the qualification programme, so that more people come from passive, low benefits and into work and activity, get a better salary to live off, a place in the community and are allowed to feel that they are involved and contribute. The qualification programme is important. This gives people the chance to get out of poverty. In order for the taskbar to work, the educational line must also work. We must prevent the next generation from falling into poverty traps. Then we must fight poverty due to non-response and lack of education. Education increases the chance of getting a job and getting a safe income. We need to strengthen early school efforts. Joint school is one of our most important tools to combat poverty and marginalisation and to achieve social cohesion. Making sure that children and young people master the school is absolutely essential for them to succeed later in life. In addition to getting people through education and work, we need targeted measures to reach those who are living in poverty today. We also do so in the Action Plan against Poverty. But we'll do more. We are proud, but we are never satisfied as long as poor children live in Norway. We've recognised that a long time ago, and that's why we're also saying that we're coming back to the Storting with a renewed effort to tackle poverty in the announced big-time news. The proposals we are discussing here today contain a number of good proposals for new measures to combat poverty, but adopting them above the table in a representative proposal is not the way to go. We want to have a broader approach and come back to this in a message. It obliges the government parties, and we must also deliver in that notice. This does not mean that we should wait to increase our efforts to combat poverty until that message comes. No, because the government still has an action plan to follow up, and we follow up and have followed up in each budget so far. We will continue to have a broad, preventive perspective on poverty and focus on what creates and maintains it by investing in work, school and kindergarten, and by strengthening the community economy to provide better framework conditions for local welfare services. We're going to go back to social housing policy. We are going to do more of what the women and men of the labour movement did in the post-war period, and with which they far managed – to combat poverty by strengthening Community solutions. All the parties in this debate are to eliminate poverty. It's obvious, and it should just be missing. But in our budgetary debates and in dealing with other issues, it's very clear that different parties are choosing different paths towards that goal. Yes, some will thus tear down many of the most important tools we have just to combat poverty, for example. the qualification programme. Some parties want to strengthen the community; others want to weaken it. The weakening of the community does not do the fight against poverty a service. The welfare community is not further built when Community solutions are weakened bit by bit. If you let that happen, you finally replace the welfare society with the charity society. We in the Workers' Party will fight against that with all our strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e855	I think that's right, as has been said in this Chamber, that all political parties want to have the least possible poverty, and I should like to see that we did not have poverty at all in Norway. But then we also see that it goes wrong. An article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 February 2010 shows that the Salvation Army has distributed food to nearly twice as many families of children this year compared to last year. I think it is worrying that we see developments going in the wrong direction, that there are increasing numbers of young people living under the term we call poverty. There's a lot of kids out here trying to protect their parents to the best of our ability, and it's hard for us politicians to see and register these kids in a good way, because many of them are very good actors. They're good at camouflaging the fragility that's inside the house's four walls, they're good at finding good excuses for not having to participate in the areas and the leisure activities that many of their friends participate in. I think that's the biggest challenge we have to fight poverty. So how are we going to be able to do that? Where does the road to success go, when we know at the same time, and as has been said in several articles here today – in all the speeches that have been made, I think it has been mentioned – that social status is inherited? It must also mean that the means we have used up to today to combat poverty have not been the right means. Because you can't, with respect to reporting, knock on your chest and say that we've succeeded, and that everything is going so much better, when we see that development is going in the wrong direction, there's going to be more poor. While we're just messing with more of the tools we've been using, we see that social status is inherited. I think we need to focus much more on three things: We have a significant task in preventing school drop-outs. I also believe that all the political parties in the Grand Duchy agree, but we have not yet been able to reach an agreement on how to do so. In any case, I hope that the Minister of Labour, in cooperation with both the Minister of Education and the Minister of Local Affairs, will be able to look at good solutions, find new approaches to catching up with children and young people before they drop out of school. If Per has been out of school and has been away for two to three months, and then you start taking action, it is unfortunately too late. The measures should have been taken before he falls out of school. In this area, I believe that many of our growth businesses and reintroduction companies have something to contribute to. I have registered a sunny example myself – a girl from my own hometown who fell out of school and ended up in the russian environment. Luckily for her, there were people who knew her as working in rehab companies, who were able to get hold of her and get her in the education process and get to work with the school quite immediately, which has resulted in her being a trained electrician today. She got her job training opportunity, got her chance to start over and come into a completely different room to get the education and training she needed. It's just one of many examples of how to think differently, think new to prevent school drop-outs. So I think the most important thing is to facilitate a labour market policy that gives room for more people to participate in the world of work, gives the opportunity for more people to get into the world of work, and that we do not have a working life that almost stands out to some groups. Once upon a time, the best way to become a wheel is to have your own, fixed income by going to work every day. Then, at my discretion, it also has to be added to a policy where it is much more profitable to work. Work needs to be much more profitable, and this can be done by facilitating a completely different tax policy than we have today. But I see that is one of the tools that the sitting government doesn't want to look at very much. Then there are many who are initially not poor from income, but who have come into a hopeless situation because of debt. There may be people who have incomes of 400,000–500,000 kroner and maybe 600,000 kroner, but who have so much debt that they don't have one penny left. Then it's important that we have a good debt advisory system that can provide help, guidance and advice, give them the opportunity to get on the right track as soon as possible. Because there I don't think it's going to be the way to be reasonable and say you're going to give them social help until they get over their knees. They'll never get over it if you don't give them the opportunity to get good follow-up and good advice to get out of their own financial situation. Another tool that has been developed and focused on in the past in the United Kingdom is that Nav is an important tool for combating poverty as well. Yeah, I think we all agree on that, too. Here it obliges the Government to make sure that Nav operates in these areas, that Nav acquires the necessary skills, so that they can see the whole human being and see the needs of the human being, and also be able to see the possibilities of the individual human being in the system. Today, unfortunately, many people, including Nav, recognise that they do not have that competence, do not know what tools and opportunities are available and can be used to treat users. There we have, among other things: received a fairly thorough report a few years ago from the Civil Ombudsman. I record that nothing has come new in relation to the report that was delivered at the time, that any changes have been made, or that the competence has been significantly increased. I know that there has been a lot of lift in Nav, and then the question is, are the right levels of competence done? Is it the people who should have been competent, who have been given it, or is it in other areas that you have made the promise of competence? Then I must say that I am a little surprised at the position expressed by the representative of the Trettebergstien from this pulpit. She points out that many of the proposals raised by the opposition are sensible, good suggestions, but that one will vote against them, and that one cannot adopt things over the table. One of the proposals of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party is on a package of measures to reduce and combat child poverty. All of us here from the government parties have been up so far saying that this is supported, and that we are committed to combating this problem. Why, then, can we not join in and support that proposal? It's not a proposal to adopt anything above the table, it's a proposal that we give the government the task of returning to the Stortinget. I had actually expected that and hoped that the positioning parties would have been able to support it. I also record that there is a rhetorical distinction between government parties in terms of poverty policy. It is interesting to note Andersen, who is acting in many ways as an opposition politician from the pulpit when talking about poverty, and who points to many of the important challenges we face when, versus, you hear the representative Tritenbergstuen, who refers to the Nordic welfare model and almost gives the impression that there is no significant problem in this area. I also record that SV, who has been very clear in the past that there is a need for norms on social assistance, is voting against when this proposal is here for voting today. I can't interpret that in any other way than that here you've been told that the government parties will vote against it, and that here there is no room for the parties to have their own opinions at all on that issue. I think that's a shame. Now you have to solve this problem further, but it's pretty well solved. We have a lot of knowledge about how this is, we know the level of the rates in the individual municipalities, we know they're in great variation, and we know how it's handled. So what's to be investigated more before you can get back to this case, and what's to be evaluated more, it becomes to me a valid question. What is it you want to know that you do not know today, before you can come back to Stortingen with the matter that the Government itself has said at an earlier time that they will come back to? Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party either promotes alone or is part of the two positions we are now considering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e887	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e890	For the Central Party, the struggle for economic austerity is one of the pillars of policy. We're concerned with smoothing between groups of people, geographical smoothing, and not least smoothing on a global basis. It is a special exercise to debate poverty reduction in one of the richest countries in the world. Poor people in Norway have a standard of living that very many people on the globe can only dream of. However, it is not easy to be poor in Norway. Living standards are measured against living standards in the environment, and we must recognise that not everyone has been allowed to participate in the wealth growth that has been taking place in Norway in the last ten years. Many are poor, and in particular many children experience poverty and not least exclusion. We're going to fight that, and this is one of the issues that makes the Center Party particularly thrive in cooperation with the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. Combating poverty is both about stable, good Community goods and about targeted measures to lift people out of poverty. Childcare, the free principle of schooling and tax equalisation are some of the most important measures to combat poverty, and there is a good red-green policy to focus on the wide range of schemes. We have to bet that as many people as possible have a good and safe place to live. That is why the promise that has been in housing support has been particularly important. Getting the most people into work is the best way to fight poverty. But we also need to have good safety nets through good social security schemes for those who fall out of the labour market, and we need social assistance that should be a last safety net for people who are not caught up in other schemes. I feel that the opposition parties regard poverty reduction as a special exercise in politics, while the government parties have poverty reduction as an integral part of all their policies. Tax policy is a policy of poverty. Municipal economy is a policy of poverty. Education policy is poverty policy. Housing policy is poverty policy. For the Central Party, municipalities are an important tool for combating poverty. It is the municipalities that are to provide the good welfare services to everyone. I note that today the proposers have received the so-called state disease: if only the state intervenes with, for example. State minimum social assistance standards will combat poverty. The Central Party believes that municipalities are serious about combating poverty and are the best people who can also afford social assistance. With minimum state standards, municipalities will be reduced to state policy agents. If the proposers actually think what they are proposing – which I assume they are doing – they should take the step fully out and propose turning social assistance into a state system. It does not want the Central Party, nor do we have tradition of that in Norway. Combating poverty in one of the world’s richest countries is not just about larger, wider and better benefits. It's also about taking a settlement with a society where material values determine our entire quality of life. We've developed a culture where children in kindergarten know all the difference between expensive and cheap clothes, where vacations to Thailand are more high-quality than tent tours in the South, and where a new Mercedes is better than an old Volvo. There will always be economic differences between people in Norway. We have to be able to distort the idea that material wealth and quality of life do not necessarily go hand in hand. If we're going to do it, we need to focus more on ourselves and less on me. We must continue to build the broad arrangements, and the government parties intend to do so during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e915	In the debate, it has already been said in every post from the government party that there is a shame that there are poor children, that there is poverty in Norway. The word 'pity' may be what I've thought the most about when it's just about poverty. As a very young politician, I was quite upset when I sat and watched TV and saw my great image of Kjell Magne Bondevik actually got a little tired of the fight he as Prime Minister had led against poverty. In a rather decisive public meeting in Ålesund in 2005, the party leader in SV, Kristin Halvorsen, said: “It’s a shame, Bondevik, that you haven’t been able to do anything about this.” It's just about political will. I think that Bondevik got quite flat and said he would like to do more. It made an impression on me. I could use the rest of the debate today just to criticise that we couldn't do any more. In the 2009 election debate, this was one of the themes. I think very well of a new debate, where one of the quotations that Kristin Halvorsen had was shown, and for which she was presented, and where it was asked, why haven't they done anything else? At the end of the election campaign, Kristin Halvorsen lamented that one had done nothing more. I thought that was great. When Dagfinn Højbrätten, the party leader of the Christian People's Party, got the word right after seeing many pictures from the debate with Kristin Halvorsen, asked – I think it was on TV 2 – the reporter: What do you have to say, Højbrätten? Instead of going hard to attack Kristin Halvorsen, he said: Do you know what, this is such an important matter that we have to go together, go together about lifting, come with different measures and go in for a national fight against poverty. That's exactly the background for this case today, because the party leaders of all the parties said yes, it's such an important matter that instead of fighting each other, we have to go together and fight poverty. Our proposal involves a series of concrete measures to tackle poverty. It was a feeling about getting an idea virtue, thinking together and then sticking out a course. Instead of being responsible for each other, we would act together. I recognise that the other party has many good suggestions, which I am sure could help in the fight against poverty. During this period and also in previous periods, the Christian People's Party has made several proposals, actions, letters to the Prime Minister, proposals in its own or annual budget. Not least in this proposal for a representative, we have made proposals. But so far, the government parties have been reprehensible. During the examination in the committee, I must say that I was very disappointed when I received the first letter from the Council of State. They went into the different actions, but they just pushed out in time. What I was pleased about was that in the letter, the Council of State said that in the revised 2010 national budget, she would ‘draw up long-term leadership for the Government’s work on distribution issues and present a broad strategy to prevent and combat poverty’. Specific measures would be added to the 2011 State budget. But five days before the committee presented the proposal, a new letter arrived, regretting that she was not able to keep that timeline. Instead of being audited and taking action in 2011, a big message was announced in spring 2011. I ask: does this mean concrete action in 2012? My experience of the fight against poverty is that measures are only being pushed out on time. In our proposal – I would like to address the specific proposals, but there is no time – we have a number of measures that would do something to help the poor out of poverty. The workline is incredibly important – getting people out of work, back into work, making Nav work. However, we also need to help those who do not have the opportunity to enter the labour market, get social assistance rates up to a proper level and get state-wide norms, but keep child welfare and cash support out of the way when measuring social assistance rates. Here I must say that in today's Newspaper I read that the representatives Trettebergstien and Gullvåg are some with the Christian People's Party and want to keep the child's fear outside when calculating social assistance. I take it as a big one says. I'm incredibly happy to see that signal. Our proposal, No. Eight, that's exactly what it's saying: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to confirm that child welfare and cash support are excluded from the measurement of social assistance.’ I hope and expect the representatives to vote in favour. Finally, I would like to address our proposals and the proposals we have with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e955	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e959	Poverty often strikes unexpectedly and randomly. It's not a simple explanation of how and why it happens in the world's richest country, but it's a problem that the nation's National Assembly has a duty to take on it all, most seriously. In the view of the Left, priority must be given to combating poverty and health problems in children and children’s families, precisely because children are completely innocent of the situation in which they are born and grow up. No one chooses his own childhood. Therefore, the support schemes that are essential for children's living and growing conditions must be generous. With this backstop and the fact that the number of children growing up in poor families in Norway is increasing, the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, attended a public meeting on TV on 19 August last year to launch a common political initiative to reduce child poverty in particular. This was met positively by the Prime Minister and the other party leaders. With this fresh in memory, Trine Skei Grande and I promoted a proposal for a concrete follow-up to a common promise to combat and reduce poverty among children and children's families on the very first day that the new uprising was gathered at the usual post-election meeting. It is possible that I was new and a little naive in this game, but I had actually expected that it was real will to do it all agreed about three weeks before the election, also three weeks after the election. The case gets a case rapporteur who had to tighten up his own party leader and the country's finance minister two days after the same public meeting and get her to admit: ‘SV itself has built expectations in relation to the poor that we have not met. I am sorry, and I understand that they are disappointed." Then I thought we could at least agree that we are now putting all party political prestige aside, and see if we can jointly find a package of measures to combat child poverty. So naive obviously it's going to be. Instead, our proposal – and follow-up to everyone’s election vows – will be first in the Committee for nearly six months, before we get enough of a case and a position in which the government parties fail to contribute to concrete decisions in the Storting, but are hiding behind investigations and ‘consultation’ taking place in the Government. Yes, not enough of that, as the representative of Ropstad stated: we are even told by the Council of State that concrete promises of follow-up in the form of a ‘wide strategy for preventing and combating poverty’ in the revised 2010 national budget in a letter to the Committee on 29 January of a month later have been changed to a statement on a process in the revised 2010 national budget and a key message in the spring of 2011. This should be directly embarrassing. It should be embarrassing for Norway that we have 85 000 children living in households with income below the poverty line. It should be embarrassing that 33 pst. by non-Western immigrant children live below the poverty line in Norway. I do not claim that the Left has all the answers to the problems, but we have outlined ten different measures in our representative proposal that can help reduce poverty among children and in families with children. I'm sorry, but I'm recording that the majority hasn't taken the trouble to go into the reality of any of these. Instead, government parties refer to increasing minimum pensions as an important measure to combat poverty among children and families with children. It'll be something special. This is not to take responsibility for the children – this is how the poorest and the weakest fail. I am surprised at the posts of the representative Trettebergstien. This is not to take responsibility – Norway’s largest party fails the weakest. So to the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party on a national fight against poverty in Norway. This has many points in common with our own proposal, and many of the concrete proposals that are being promoted are identical to those outlined in our proposal. The left will therefore vote in favour of the proposals. 1-8. As far as the other proposals are concerned, we agree with the intention, but we believe that this is the case, for example. is too rigid to establish that dependants with income below 2 G must pay a maximum of 40 pst. by the price of kindergarten and SFO. I therefore refer to the Left's proposal No. 12, which is distributed in the hall, where we propose a general change of regulation, so that it is graduated for families with low income. We believe that this will vary slightly from municipality to municipality, and that it is therefore neither desirable nor necessary to determine how much the graduated rate should be, or at what level of income it should enter. I refer to our proposal No. 13, which is also distributed in the hall. The vast majority are able to obtain housing themselves, but some have problems getting into the housing market. Especially for those who have had problems in a phase of life, it will be essential to have own housing under as stable conditions as possible. Without a fixed address, it is difficult to get a job and get on with it. The left therefore proposes to introduce a scheme according to the Danish home purchase model, where a rented municipal dwelling can be paid down through rent and will be owned in the long term. The public must contribute to the construction of several rental dwellings, where a proportion of them become home-purchase dwellings. I bring this up with the proposals that I have mentioned, which have been distributed in the Chamber. At the same time, I would like to point out that, of course, the Left supports the proposal of the minority in case No. 3, which is identical to our own proposal in the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e986	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e989	The two representative proposals that are being discussed here today show that there is a great deal of commitment to doing something for those who are the most difficult in society. The representatives of Ropstad, Davøy, Andersen Eide and Hareide propose a series of measures as part of a national effort to combat poverty. Representatives Raja and Skei Grande propose a package of measures to reduce and combat poverty, especially among children. There has been a cross-political consensus and a collection of around a series of measures against poverty in the annual government budgets since the Bondevik government in autumn 2002 presented its action plan against poverty. The government of Stoltenberg presented its action plan on poverty together with proposals for the 2007 state budget. The action plan has been followed up with reinforcements in the annual budgets. Action packages have been launched and specific efforts have been made to combat poverty. Proposals will give priority to targeted action against those who need it most, rather than to broad schemes. I agree that targeted action is necessary and appropriate in order to reach particularly vulnerable people and groups and should be part of an overall response to poverty. We need to keep an eye on measures that can be absolutely certain to prevent people from falling out of work and community, and to improve the situation of those affected. However, the most important strategy against poverty is to prevent the problem from emerging. An economic policy for growth and full employment, and a distribution of value creation through the focus on rights-based welfare countries, are the main reasons why Norway, compared with other countries, has a limited poverty problem. The Nordic welfare model has not eradicated poverty, but we don't know any other models that work better either. In Norway, too, everyone, regardless of income, has access to a well-developed health and education system. It is therefore problematic to also transfer international definitions of so-called problematic low income to the Norwegian welfare community, where many well-being goods are rights-determined and free, and where the general level of income is higher than in most other countries. During the current period of increasing unemployment, enhanced labour market policy efforts and other measures have been essential to prevent people from staying out of the labour market. This, combined with a well-developed public safety network, means that Norway has so far been relatively successful during the economic crisis. Take, for example: Spain, with a youth unemployment rate of 39,6 pst. – this is something that leads to exclusion over time. The fact that children experience poverty is particularly serious, both in terms of their well-being and their inclusion in the short term, and also in order to prevent children and young people from being marginalised later in life. I therefore agree that there is a need to step up efforts to combat child poverty. What are the best instruments in terms of social assistance legislation can be discussed here. The use of a national minimum social assistance standard can be seen as a normal rate, thus making it difficult to adapt to the specific needs of individual users. We know that the main difference in Norway is between those who have and those who have no work. Work provides income and economic security and reduces disparities and prevents poverty. The overall objective of the government's welfare policy is that it should pay off to work and that all should be able to support themselves through their own work. The government pursues an active labour market policy, implements the Nav reform, continues its efforts for an inclusive working life and has taken action to strengthen the labour market links of people who are most remote from the labour market. Some people need close and organized follow-up on the way into work. The Qualification Programme is nationwide from 1 January 2010. The qualification programme has provided many with a range of qualifications and improved job opportunities. In order to ensure good growth conditions for children, and to provide lastingly good solutions for the individual family, it is essential to strengthen the ability of parents to self-sufficiency through work. This is also important to break social heritage and reduce the risk of children being marginalised in their own adult lives. Furthermore, the government has a long-term, preventive perspective on the fight against poverty. We need to look at how society at large is structured, and what conditions and social structures contribute to maintaining social and economic differences. On this basis, the government appointed the Distribution Committee in order to gain more knowledge of the evolution of economic differences over time, of factors explaining developments, and of the measures that can contribute to a more even distribution. The distribution committee presented its position in April 2009 and, in particular, promised that kindergartens and the education system have a major impact on social differences later in life. The selection committee has been set up at a wide consultation and the hearing opinions are now being reviewed. The government will first mention the matter in the revised national budget in our spring. Then we see the need for a broader review, and will follow up the work of the Distribution Committee in a separate paper in the spring of 2011. I assume that we will then have a broad and good discussion in Stortinget about this message. Poverty reduction policies must go hand in hand with policies to reduce economic and social disparities. It's about giving everyone, regardless of social background, the same opportunities for learning, knowledge, participation in work and social life, and living good and safe lives. The government has implemented a major kindergarten reform and strengthened the school. A well-developed pedagogical kindergarten offer gives children good and more equivalent growth and learning conditions. Basic skills contribute to inclusion in working life and secure income. The Minister of Knowledge is taking action to reduce school dropout. It is essential to prevent large groups of young people from leaving school, which weakens their ability to work and self-sufficiency. The government has also strengthened the local economy, providing better framework conditions for providing municipal welfare services to those who need it the most. However, the general welfare systems must be combined with targeted actions and specific efforts towards vulnerable groups. It is a good care and health care for people with mental health problems. It is about providing homeless follow-up and help to live. It's about giving convicted people a new chance to come back to society. It is about ensuring that children and young people are not excluded from social communities, which are important to their everyday lives and their development. It is not least a broad effort to integrate and include the immigrant population, including increasing the proportion of immigrant women in paid employment. The concrete proposals for measures contained in the proposals for representatives were commented on in a letter to the Committee dated 29 January. I am pleased with a discussion about concrete actions and improvements, and attends a debate on active action, but I am primarily concerned with finding long-term and structural approaches that will help all children and new generations to experience being included and feel belonging to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1024	In these days, the Government has completed its first budgetary conference on the 2011 government budget. One of the major leaks that came out in front was that the government considered removing the deduction scheme for the care of children while reducing the amount of child benefit. If you remove the deduction for the care and care of children and you have one child and can deduct up to NOK 25 000, it will mean that your parents will get NOK 7 000 more at the cost of taking care of children. My question will then be: can the Council of State order that this will be implemented? In that case, it will be very hard for the families who have the worst income.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1029	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot cancel or confirm any leakages from the handling of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1034	The President must be allowed to say that the answer was not surprising for the Stortinget and perhaps not for the questioner either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1037	Every time we discuss poverty in the Storting, the government says two things: first, it's always talking about the Nordic model. The Nordic model is all right. That certainly also means the bourgeois governments of Sweden and Denmark. But the second point is that there is a worse situation in other countries, and Spain is constantly being promoted. There is little security and consolation for those who have fallen outside Norway that is worse in Spain. I sometimes have the impression that the red-green government is so concerned about sung in the shine of the Nordic model that it forgets the shadows. It is true, as the Council of State says, that in a period of increased economic growth, it is easier to increase employment. In the period we had from 2005 to 2007, we had increased economic growth, we had increased employment, but more that fell out of the labour market, more that went on disability and more poor. What, then, is it going to be, the Council of State, in a time when we're getting more leave? Then we're going to get more people who fall out of the labour market, even more so than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1044	Why we underline and refer to the Nordic model is precisely because it actually turns out that overall there are less differences and fewer exclusions of society in the Nordic countries than there are in many other countries. I fully agree with the representative that for those who are actually excluded from society or feel that they do not enter the society of which the rest of us are part, it does not help. That is why I have also stressed that the Government is pursuing a policy in which one tries to be focused on precisely those groups, in addition to having the great overall universal arrangements. We know that having a good kindergarten, homework and education system is one of the things that just prevents the reproduction of poverty. It kind of breaks the reproduction that's there. That's why there's some of the government's most focused on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1051	I brought with me these two letters that the Council of State sent to the committee. One is disappointing, the other is very disappointing. It's been almost six months since we presented the proposal for a national fight against poverty. Therefore, I must say that I find it disappointing that the Council of State refers to our proposals as adopting it over the table or looking closer to them etc. when it has been six months. In six months it would have been possible to look a lot at these suggestions, especially when the government had had four years before to be able to look. I know that many of these measures and proposals have been used, and have been evaluated and distributed before. But I'm going to choose to take a positive view of this. The fact that there is to be a big message can be a good thing if it is followed up. I noticed that the Council of State said that she believed that there would be a good treatment with good recordings in the Stortinget. Can I use a real will to listen to actions, and perhaps a settlement, when the message comes to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1060	To start with the last one first: a real willingness to listen, I would like to stress that we have – I have to make sure that I do not underline too much, it has been pointed out that I stress a lot – and I believe that is also the whole basis for this discussion. As I underlined in my first post, it is very positive that we have a very similar view of this problem in general. Then we have a slightly different view of how we're going to solve it. For the two letters. I'm sorry if I let the representative down. The point is that very many of the things that are already in these proposals, we're working on continuously. In my letter to Stortinget I have also shown how many of the things in the proposals are actually toured and treated, in some different ways, but followed up. Then we are now concerned that we need to sort of look at the whole of this – not just the various fragmentary proposals, but a whole based on the attitude of the Distribution Committee. I think, and I'm glad it's going to be perceived as a force that we're getting a message where we're just looking at that whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1070	My immigrant father accepted to be called Raja. I, as the North, want, expect and hope for the correct pronunciation, which is ‘Radsha’. There are 85 000 poor children in Norway, 33 pst. of all non-Western immigrant children are below the poverty line, with the consequences it brings for growth, education, social challenges, mental and physical suffering, crime, and all this is passed on to the next generation. I'm impatient, I'm becoming very impatient, and the Left will have raised now in Norway's poorest. Why isn't the government equally impatient? And can we afford not to be as impatient? How does the Council of State feel that a reinforced response to poverty reduction among children and children’s families will take place through a presentation of a process and a growth report without concrete promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1079	First, I am sorry that I mispronounced the name of the representative. So I just want to say that you don't have to present this as if the government isn't doing anything and waiting for a message. I think it was carried out a very good review of the case rapporteur, Karin Andersen, of all the things that were actually done and done. It's absolutely fundamental. So I'm very happy about the question of immigrants, because we know that very much of the poverty problem is right there. But what's also good to see is that the longer living time, the less problems we have, and that very much indicates that the differences in both education and living conditions change in 2nd generation immigrant environments. That's very good. That's what we've just been working with, through kindergartens, through education, through homework, and we're going to keep doing it. We are not waiting for the job until the message is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1088	After all, we are not discussing the large, wide-ranging welfare systems on which there is a political consensus in Norway. From 2005 to 2007, Norway had a fantastic economic boom. Based on the statistics we use, we got 10,000 more poor in that period. I want to ask the Council of State a simple yes or no question. Now there is a recession in Norway, at least there are more unemployed. Can we expect to get more poor next time the statistics are presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1095	Not surprisingly, the representative does not get a yes or no, because it is not a yes or no response to it. I was just into it in my post as well. How we define the poor is also a challenge we have to look at a little bit. If we use this 60 percent, the marginal groups, we'll probably get more poor in Norway, yes, in a few years, because we'll get more poor in Norway compared to that definition as we generally increase living standards in Norway. I do not think it is an important norm, because relative poverty is also important. But we have to be willing in a way to problematize that question as well, otherwise I think we're going to run a little wrong. It is important to stress that there is something that needs to be done here in a group, that you cannot talk about poor people as one group, and that means that you can't set up tools that work. And as I was just talking about, we know that within immigrant groups you have a growing problem, and then you have a problem with drugs, and you have a special problem with people like that. I'm under criminal custody. There we have to put in the shock – I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1102	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1105	First of all, let me say that I think it's quite remarkable that the Council of State says that with today's poverty targets, we have to expect to have more poor people in the years to come. I fully agree that today's poverty targets have serious weaknesses and shortcomings. It is therefore also an overall opposition that proposed an alternative poverty target, at least a supplementary poverty target during the budgetary procedure, but was voted down. After all, when one has a poverty target that greatly measures inequality, the Council of State considers either (a) that inequalities continue to increase in Norwegian society – but in that case it is contrary to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration – or (b) that even if some people get better, it can be expected by the Government, a red-green majority in the Grand Duchy, that those who have the worst in society do not get as much better than other parts of the population. That means that what the government has said in the Soria Moria statement is no longer valid, or that means that the government should go back to its back room and see if you need to have a more realistic, real goal of poverty that allows you to get a better policy. In the book that the representative Karin Andersen referred to about child poverty in Norway, it is young and children in Norway who tell their stories about how it is to be poor in Norway. Those stories tell us a lot. They also tell us something that you don't see in the big statistics, which you don't see when you look at the macro image, or when you just concentrate on praising the Nordic model. It tells of poverty that is not just about low income. It tells of poverty that is about loneliness, exclusion, the feeling of being marginalized, parents that are not present, parents that have to work a lot, a school that fails, bullying both teachers and fellow students. It also says that poverty no longer affects the large, transparent groups in Norway, but is spread and has varied causes. It also says that poverty can no longer be combated solely by collective raising. There has been a change in Norway in the last hundred years. While the fight against poverty before it was about lifting people collectively out of poverty, today it is about having targeted solutions adapted to the individual or to the individual family situation. It is important for the Right to stress that everyone has a personal responsibility. Equally full, poverty is not a choice. Of course, the choices you make have consequences, both for yourself, for your children and for society around. Policies cannot, nor should they be, responsible for everything and everyone, either in the fight against poverty. Personal responsibility is a requirement imposed on each citizen of society. It is in my opinion the top of arrogance to claim that people who have temporarily fallen outside, or who are struggling with economic and social problems, are unable to take responsibility. It's to strip them of dignity as citizens of society. Just as fully, it's our responsibility as politicians to try to see why we have a system that, despite our broad welfare systems year after year, people are coming out of work and leading to more people falling outside. I think we can see the contours of an evil circle. It's like the children's books, where you have to draw lines between the dots, and then you have a picture. We see the same picture in Norway. It starts with a school that fails and one in five goes out of school without being able to read and write. It continues in high school, where the dropout is dramatically high, especially in the professional field. It's about a labour market that's changed, while we're not good enough to get new jobs to everyone. It's about activating. The proportion of young people aged 18 to 19 has increased by 115 pst. from 1992 to 2008. In a short time, the NRC reported an increase in the number of young people attending its social offices. Our systems have failed. Instead of helping people get back to work or into education, we lead too many into a public system that offers passive support schemes. And then it's about inheritance, about the risk of a person being disqualified before the age of 26, is three times as high if the child grows up with unqualified parents. In that situation, I can't say with my hand on the heart – and I don't think the red-greens can say it either – that you have fulfilled the promise you made to the voters in 2005. Then Kristin Halvorsen sat down and said that eradicating poverty is a matter of political will. Well, now you've had a majority on Stortinget. You can do whatever you want. Nevertheless, based on the same statistics that Halvorsen used in 2005, we have more poor people in Norway, at least from 2005 to 2007. We see a Nav system, the very core wall of our welfare system, that fails, that can't pay money to anyone who has a right to it, nor follow up the users. We see that the decline is increasing. We see that bullying has taken a break. We see labour market measures giving longer queues. We see that it is cut off in vocational rehabilitation, and there will be an abrupt stop in the middle of the period. And then the government's answer is to run opposition policy through the newspapers, as in today's Newspaper, where the Workers' Party, instead of voting for measures in the Storting, says they support it in the press. With all due respect, that's not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1124	I find that the last speaker is making a diagnosis of poverty Norway without prescribing any kind of medicine. It's the opposition's task, obviously, not just in this area, but in most areas. In the preface to Fafo’s report on child poverty in Norway, Pre-accession in Norway points out that the impact of growing up in poverty in as prosperous a country as Norway can be extra big. I think in many ways that's right. It may be easier to be poor when many are, and more difficult when poverty only affects a small minority. Poverty in Norway is a relative concept. In the Fafo report, this is related to families with a family income of less than 60 pst. of the average income of Norwegian families with children, starting from the income year 2006. Here, the poverty limit for a household with two adults and two children is drawn by a total family income of less than NOK 300000. I want to reflect on a few moments in the report: About 85 000 Norwegian children live below the poverty line in relation to this target. Two out of three poor children live in households receiving social assistance. There is a clear link between poverty and educational levels. Poor households are constantly quite childish. Children of lone dependants are overrepresented among those families with very low income. Children from households with more than one labour income are almost not represented in the statistics. One of three children with a non-Western immigrant background lives in what we might call a low-income household. I am pleased that the Government has followed up the Action Plan against Poverty and is now notifying that it will present a major communication on the policy for distribution next year. It will probably underline the importance of work and income as a basis for our common well-being and the fight against poverty. As we can read from the poverty statistics, households are constantly dependent on two incomes in our modern society if they are to maintain what I would call a normal standard of living. This affects many immigrant families, who, for cultural reasons, have only a dependant and often with relatively low incomes. Of course, it does not improve the situation that they also feel an obligation to contribute money to even poorer relatives in their home country. Therefore, one in three children with a non-Western background is categorised as poor. We do not meet this challenge with increased social assistance, housing support or other passive transfers — of course, we can contribute in the form of free kindergartens, SFOs and increased activity support for children of school age. However, if we are to get immigrant women into work – and that is what we are talking about in a substantial way – we need more and more targeted Norwegian training and qualification measures and less contact support. The social assistance system shall be a safety net that captures people in need of assistance for a short period of time. It was never intended that individuals or families should depend on or live on social assistance for years. Whenever that's the case, I have some sympathy for the Christian People's Party's proposal to keep child welfare away from the calculation of social assistance. As I understand it is about 120 of the country's municipalities that are currently using this scheme, and that are thus using the child-responsiveness of the poorest children to reduce their social welfare costs. After I have been informed, the municipalities save between 300 and 400 million. kr in this way. Social assistance is an individual benefit and must in my opinion be. However, if we remove the municipality's access to child welfare into the calculation basis for social assistance without ensuring that child welfare really benefits poor children, we are equally far away. That's why I could imagine switching in the 300-400 million. the municipalities save on this, in activity support for the children, so that children in poor families are given the opportunity to participate in camp schools and other school and cultural activities in the same way as other children. We do not do that through a representative proposal in Stortinget. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to take this issue into the Government and come back to it when the municipality proposal for 2011 is to be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1170	Today, the debate is about the Norwegian welfare model and the Norwegian welfare society. The fight against poverty and the fight against child poverty is especially one of the most important issues we debate in this Chamber. We just have to say that the world's best system still hasn't solved all the challenges, so we have to keep on running politics. That is what we actually agree on today. The fight against poverty is the political heritage on which the Workers' Party has built its entire ideology. We have prioritised that work for everyone should be goal no. 1, we have prioritised that ever-new groups should be lifted out of poverty and into public welfare. We design a welfare model that ensures that all residents of the country have a safety net in the form of a good health care system, that there is schooling for everyone, that there is security of illness and income in the event of disability and unemployment. Those are rights that we all have in society, and that we share in paying for over the tax bill. In this debate, I see that the red-green and the civil blue sides represent a fundamental disagreement about the major road choices. We can find points that we agree on in detail, but in the big picture we have chosen different directions. In fact, I think it is very worrying that the blue side has not given priority to agreeing on these major choices about combating poverty. It's too big a crack. I am among the really lucky people who have been allowed to be rapporteurs in a Norwegian municipality. It was during a period when the municipal economy was not a priority, so I want to concentrate on the role of municipalities in combating poverty. The period under Bondevik II was marked by contractions in the municipal economy. We were a municipality that was on the ROBEK list. That means we had a deficit on our operating budgets. The number of people increased sharply, and it gave us a lot of challenges to work with at the same time. We were going to balance the economy, and at the same time we were going to give new school offerings to those who moved here. It was more than one night I lay awake! The thoughts ranged around how we could get more sick homes, while at the same time getting more students and less money than we got the year before. The meetings that we had with the representatives of the then Bondevik government, I really want to briefly summarize this: it was about improving the efficiency of the services and concentrating on the statutory tasks. The focus was entirely on rights-based services, not on local adaptations and early intervention. Actually, that wasn't a priority. The municipality is the main provider of welfare in Norway. When the municipalities were drained for resources, we ended up not having the opportunity to make a good effort early enough. I think the municipality is the most important actor we have to fight poverty. It's about the health centres, the kindergartens and the schools. It's about following up early those who are struggling with drug addiction, it's about an active cultural life, and it's about the organization of good housing. The most important thing we can do to combat poverty is to intervene early. We have to help before the problems get too big, before life gets too complicated. Poverty, as several have mentioned, has a strong hereditary factor, and it has a bleak tendency to bite if we don't intervene early enough. So our task is to give children another way into adult life than to inherit the financial problems of their parents. The only place we can catch them all is in the municipalities. That's where we meet them – daily, at home. When the distribution committee is set up, it becomes important for the overall grips that need to be done not to work piece by piece and piece, but to provide for grips that are not downgraded due to other schemes. This means that we need to continue our efforts on the municipalities and on the municipal economy, and that will be a key to the fight against poverty. We need measures to get to work and help find good housing, and we need good financial advice that can take a long time to achieve lasting changes for them. Poverty is not about a group of people or selected areas in the country. Poverty strikes people randomly – it hits people across the country – so we have to take action at municipal level. I think we have a task in making sure that the poverty effort becomes a priority municipal task. It is the local politicians who draw up their own action plans to combat poverty in their local settings in order to put the right measures in place at the right time as early as possible. Poverty control should not be about deserving ones, but about a society that is early entering and working with you to give you an opportunity to take back control of your own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1196	One of the biggest problems we have in our society is that too many students don't complete their education. This is in particular a challenge in professional studies. Children who grow up with parents without secondary education or higher education are statistically less able to complete today's 13-year-old schooling. Many of the young people who fall away are found in statistics on the unemployed and the disadvantaged later in life. Their children again have less chance of completing their schooling. This is a bad circle that has to be broken. The main response to non-advantage in secondary education is in primary school. So many as 20 pst. of those who leave the 10th grade, read and write so poorly that they have problems with further education and work. If you can't read or write properly when you leave high school, there's a higher risk of falling from high school. We need to give children and young people the opportunity to learn on their premises. Everyone has something they're good at, and everyone will be something when they grow up. Many of us have been interested in joining the series on class 10b in Skedsmo. Last Monday the class had the exam. The boy who almost didn't meet up at school throughout the fall got new teachers together with the rest of his classmates who focused on motivation and learning. This boy went from grade 1 to grade 3 on the exam. During the spring he had zero days of absence. His answer to why this change had happened was that there was no one who gave him up any more. No children dream of receiving social assistance. They dream of becoming a fireman or a hairdresser, a doctor or a lawyer, and we need a society that embraces everyone. We need a school that thinks completely, that sees the individual and that motivates and gives knowledge. There's a lot of reasons for the high dropout. There may be weak basic skills that prevent you from joining the subjects of higher education. Weak professional skills also give low grades, so you do not get into the first choice in higher education. Studies show that students who do not receive their first choice lose their motivation more quickly and fall away more easily from education than other students. However, research shows that early work in primary schools strengthens the basic skills of students, and then a stronger resource needs to be deployed early in school. This may prevent young people from falling from later on in the course of education. In the last five years, therefore, the government has invested considerable resources at an early stage in primary school. We want to break the tradition of waiting and seeing and hoping that the problems pass by themselves. That's why we've started increasing language stimulation for the smallest, and we'll give faster help to students who are struggling at school. The long-term perspective is to build good education systems. Although we have put in increased efforts early in school, it still takes a few years before we see the effect of this. The proportion of young men aged between 20 and 24 in disability benefit has increased by 150 pst. in recent years. From 1986 until now, there has been a clear decline in jobs that can be achieved only 12 years of schooling or less. In the future, we will have a more demanding working life in which a higher level of competence is required. For those young people who fall away, it often starts with so much absence at school that they lose all professional prerequisites in order to continue. Follow-up services in the counties operate to varying degrees and in many cases very poorly followed up. Not all parents have the prerequisites or resources to follow up their children’s schooling, and it may have come to such an extent that their parents have a sense of abstinence and almost give up. The government has launched a series of measures to prevent non-response: improving vocational guidance, continuing training of teachers, testing schemes for youth and more flexible careers are some of the measures. St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, the Education Line, which the Stortinget deals with the first Thursday, refers to some of the responses to these challenges. There are no revolutionary individual measures to prevent non-response. Long-term and targeted work in many fields at the same time produces results. There are many important measures in the field of poverty in schools. Early schooling and prevention of high school dropouts are the two most important and concrete. Many of the big social differences are found in the big cities, especially in Oslo. Combating poverty is about giving people a job to go to, but it is also about housing patterns, social housing policies and raising the general living conditions. This is the responsibility of local politicians. Oslo has become a divided town. You could read in the evening post Last night last afternoon that in Old Oslo it is 8.4 p.m. receiving social assistance. In Western Aker, it's only 1.9 pst. This again has consequences for schools. The only people who can deal with this are local politicians, and there I miss action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1228	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1231	Norway is one of the best countries in the world to live in. Most people are doing well in this country, but we still know that someone is experiencing poverty in this rich country, and it may be extra difficult because there are so many who have it so well. In particular, it is difficult for families with children. Politicians and the government sitting here must take some of the blame. It has been given promises and created some expectations that have not been followed up. Much is allowed to combat poverty in Norway, but it does not meet the target. The poverty debate in Norway is a collusion of various measures that have had far too little effect. The groups that were poor in the 1990s are still poor. This is serious. It's serious for those who struggle with economically difficult conditions, because they're promised improvement that doesn't come, and it's problematic because we spend a lot of time on things that don't work. The characteristic of those who are poor is that many of them fall out of work. Therefore, the first objective is to ensure that as many as possible are given the opportunity to get to work in order to become self-sustaining. So it's also about regaining self-respect. To get to this, we're dependent on using more tools. It is necessary to facilitate the qualification of people for the jobs that exist, and then it is not useful to have a qualification programme that excludes some groups, for example. dependants and insured persons with residual working capacity. We have to make it profitable to work both by combining work and social security and through targeted tax relief for those with low and ordinary incomes. We have to make sure to slow down the entrance to poverty. We have to get away from the situation that we see in high school. The school may be the most important arena for poverty prevention. At the same time, it's maybe here that we've done the worst to create space for social mobility. This despite years of experimentation with the left-hand side's equality experiments. We have to create a school where everyone is guaranteed opportunities in adult life. We cannot accept that one in five students leave school without reading and writing well enough for the demands of working life. The school must be given the opportunity to see each individual student and give the individual the best possible opportunity to pick up their potential. There is one dimension in the poverty debate that often disappears, and that is what individuals can do for themselves. Public auxiliaries can do a lot, but if a person succeeds in getting out of a difficult situation, it requires a lot of self-sufficiency. In health care, we use the term help for self-help. In the Nav system and in the municipalities, there are many good helpers, supervisors and support persons who can motivate and encourage those who need organisation to get started. I would therefore like to warn against a poverty policy that follows the rhetoric of the left, namely to set up even more support schemes to make life easier. This is a defensive and erroneous starting point. My goal, and the Right goal, is to help people out of poverty by making demands, by giving more people the opportunity to get into work and get back the management of their own lives. The goal must be that more people can take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1245	This is an exciting and important debate, but I know I'm reacting to one thing. From the red-green side, one of the impressions is that the other side – sail if there are some of us who believe in something in the middle as well – will rage the Nordic model. It's not about that. We are all some that the Nordic model is good. What I react most to is that if you look at the rhetoric, if you look at the change that has happened in five years, it is quite as big. Every time we make suggestions, it's just done, and one says that this can't be treated now. It'll be forested in time, instead of one coming up with your own suggestions. I must say that is disappointing. I took the word again because I want to follow up the interesting post of the representative Steinar Gullvåg. He pointed to an article he has in the Newspaper today, where he points out that 120 municipalities reduce social assistance for children. It's 300 to 400 million. kr, which should also be the property of the poor children. I can't be united anymore. That's why we have a proposal like this. Based on the article held by Gullvåg, I do not understand why he cannot vote for: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to confirm that child welfare and cash support are excluded from the measurement of social assistance.’ What I feel every time we debate it, every time the debate on poverty comes, is that it's only going to be wasted on time. I said in my post instead that I am incredibly happy that I now saw a signal, because I collect it as one says that what opposition politicians use to push with different measures, I believe it is sometimes picked up. But I have to say, I'm worried if it really becomes something when it's not voted for this, and when it's referred to something, for example. a letter from the Council of State, or one that indicates a hope that something will happen. It would have been much better if one had actually got a proposal through in Stortinget. So I'll comment on what's going on social help. I am very happy that one should wait for the distribution selection, distribution etc. - That's great! Storing messages are great to read, but if you look at what the government has done when it comes to social assistance before, you might say. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in 2007: «We must start the evaluation of the times.» The 2007 press release from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion showed that there were far too many differences, that there was too little overview, that we now had to know more, that it would be sent on a hearing in spring 2008, and that hopefully there would be proposals during 2008. We are now writing 2010, and we are about to start re-evaluations. I should like the red-greens to be honest. Does social clients get a minimum government standard, or does they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1261	I don't know how many poor people are listening to this debate. But if they really knew that it was those who it was about, I'm not sure either, because we're good at discussing technical things, the political game, all the good points we're going to get in a political debate. But that may not be what helps people out of poverty. One thing I'm jumping over -- in all our goodwill -- whether it's about high school drop-out or something else, is that there's someone who's gone so far in his zeal as to call people for a cost and a problem. How is it to talk about people that way? Poverty is not just about money. It's about tools to master your own life, and it's also about a sense of being socially excluded. The touching care that the Progress Party also shows for the poor of society is a bit of a signal when you know how they have previously disfellowshiped single mothers, social welfare recipients and immigrants who are not at work. That's the very opposite of inviting people in. But it may also be that someone from our own ranks has sometimes spoken in a slightly bad way. When you think that combating poverty and getting out of such a situation is about getting up about'morran', you may not know all the world about the social distress that people in poverty are living with and who do not know how to pay their bills. I said earlier, when we discussed Nav, that to me it's actually an important goal that there are several people who are going to go to Nav to get social assistance. We know that the experience that many people have when they have their backs bent into a social office is a result of our attitudes to people who are struggling. There are many people who could have gotten help earlier than they do today. But this is basically about the human vision we all have. It's easy to agree that we're going to help these children. But how are we sometimes talking about the parents of these children, whether they need care, going out of prison and trying to get back to society? I think we in this room are going to take a little more responsibility for how we talk about people who want to come back, just by inviting in, not excluding by saying that they're a problem. Finally... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1274	I'm sorry, speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1277	I'm a little surprised that this debate is taking place, because according to the Council of State, Halvorsen, poverty was eliminated in the last period of ageing. So a little humility in relation to a complex subject had been in place, after I heard the debate so far. The Bondevik II government was the first to have poverty as a matter of its own. I was the responsible State Council in this area. It was put on the agenda. This was the first time poverty reduction was supported by a separate action plan. It was a breakthrough, and it was a necessary breakthrough, because in a welfare society like ours it is completely unworthy that people should not be able to get out of a difficult life situation. At the same time, it was a starter cushion. It was a beginning. Our starting point in the poverty debate is that poverty problems are complex, they are complex, and there are no simple solutions. The government made this a political will issue in 2005. There is certainly someone who can regret those words today. It was probably also done by the Council of State Halvorsen when the Government made promises for this period of government. But it was probably a breach of promise. Much of the increase that has been put on the agenda of the Stoltenberg II government has been about discussing social assistance, whether it should be increased or not — as if poverty were being combated by increasing social assistance by x-kronor. Anyone who has driven within this field knows that this is far more complex than that. If you had given a few hundred more patches of social assistance, the number of poor would still be the same. The problem is that it is not done enough to get people out of work, and there is too little effort on what is going on in work qualification. It is bet, but not enough. As I see it, it seems that the government is unable to prioritise. It is public money that becomes the qualitative measure of whether any promises are made in this area. In this field, as in so many others, there will be little action. The Bondevik II government had put a perfect ball for the red-green government in 2005. Poverty was on the agenda, the labour market was at full speed in a positive direction, and poverty measures were targeted. The government squalled the opportunity. So the ball was too open. It's incredibly well done! I don't think that's the last time we're going to discuss poverty in this room, but I hope the measures are getting more nuanced, and the posts are getting a little bit more humiliated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1290	It's clear that if a child can't walk on the birthday of his granddaughter because he can't afford to buy punches, or if he has a dream of being a dancer, but can't afford to be taught dance, then there's bad comfort in the big picture. But I will nevertheless dare to say that in many ways I see a little positive in this debate considering what has happened in a little decade's perspective. First of all, there have actually been some improvements. Social aid measures are increasing, we have implemented a major child care reform, a preventive reform, and the qualification programme is in full phase. Secondly, many of the proposals made many years ago by SV on their own in the political debate are now significant: not least the proposal on norms in social assistance, which I believe will be very important to continue to debate in the years to come, perhaps most of all because I have noticed that everyone is now talking about the unbelievable importance of the welfare state and universal welfare systems to fight poverty. The representative Rupstad was a little provoked that something else was suggested. I noticed that the representative, Røe Isaksen, said in a reply before he kept his sensitive posts: ‘We are not discussing the large, wide-ranging welfare systems on which there is a political consensus in Norway.’ He's a representative of the Right here. For example, no more debate on sick leave, the right to further training, the obvious right to kindergarten and the SFO – and the derogatory mention of it. End this, it must mean. Then we can start an important debate, that is, how we build on many of the welfare arrangements that have such an impact on fighting poverty, for example. kindergartens. Of all those who don't go to kindergarten before they start school, they with a minority background are strongly overrepresented. The same group is strongly overrepresented when it comes to child poverty. We have to take the debate on an offer before going to school, so that everyone meets up to the first day of school with a certain linguistic and social competence. We must dare to take that debate. We have to do the same with regard to SFO, because we have knowledge of the importance of SFO both for integration and for learning and for children's development. There must be an offer for everyone in a significant part of the school day, so that everyone is better integrated into the school day. So I think that too few people here have drawn up the question of culture and volunteering. Poverty in Norway today is not about affording food, but about not being able to join the other. I have noticed that the cultural agency in Oslo, Torger Odegaard, has said that Anniken Huitfeldt has an instrumental cultural vision, because she says that it is necessary to think more about social inclusion than to make it a pillar of cultural policy. I'm totally disagreed, because I think it's an important part of this debate. Finally, I also think that we're all going to admit that the meeting with the systems, whether it's with Nav or other institutions, is a dimension of being poor that is seriously underestimated. There must be all the parties and the public in themselves for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1310	One of the important things this government has done is to raise the minimum pensions. I'm recording that the representative Raja thinks it's just about retirement. So it's all about lonely caregivers, and it's about the social benefits of the people's security of all those who are out of work. Lifting that minimum benefit is money right to families with bad advice. We've done the same thing with the housing stock. We have changed housing, so there are 50,000 new families entitled to housing support – money for families with poor advice. This started in the summer and is not well known by all. These are important instruments, broad instruments. So I don't understand what debate the representative of Injerd Schou has been in, where it's been said that someone is talking about just one instrument. These are many broad, heavy instruments that need to be put in place, and these schemes are important. The qualification programme is important. The qualification programme is about what we know about the consequences of poverty, that having such poor advice that you don't know how to get the ends to meet, doesn't make you move on in your life, but makes you stay in a state of amputation. The qualification programme is such that it provides predictability of income and promises of follow-up, both in terms of social and health, and in terms of work. It concerns the same target group receiving social assistance. It's exactly the same people, and it's not like someone said here, that the qualification programme should exclude some of those who are on social welfare. No, the Storting has said unanimously: it must be for everyone, and it must be built out for everyone. Then we have a logic on how to arrange the benefits for those who have the worst advice and who are in the most difficult situation, namely that we have to provide predictability of income, and we have to provide predictability of follow-up. That's what this is all about. It's not about morality, which someone seems to believe. There are people who read and write poorly in this country – and I am one of them. But I've had fun. I've had people around me. I have had teachers who have seen me, and I have had people around me who have helped me when it's been difficult. Not everyone has it like this. So then it's not just about personal responsibility, but it's about these systems we're talking about, from child protection, kindergarten, school, Nav and also a working life, being able to see and perceive and encourage, and that they don't have to shrink people. I'm afraid that's what happens a lot. I want to repeat what people say to me when they call: It's bad to have bad advice, Karin, but the worst thing is to be looked down on and treated terribly badly. And one of the most important things we can do is not about appropriations. It's about how we talk to people, how we talk about people, how the whole administration talks about people, and that we actually know that it's not the slightest difference between the people who get social help and us who sit in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1321	The representative of Gullvåg replies to the representative of Røe Isaksen by generalising the opposition to say that the opposition has no proposals for solutions. I wonder if the representative has read the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party on poverty reduction. If you're poor, what opportunities do you have? You don't have money for toys, not to go out to eat, not to go to movies or other activities like participating in football or in a leisure club, not to go on vacation — never to go on vacation. I don't think anyone in this room can imagine how it feels to be a poor child. And poverty stays with you all your life. In the case of school and immigrant boys, immigrant boys are just outside of high school. In the case of work, there is higher unemployment among immigrants than elsewhere. They do work as they are overqualified to do. Asylum seekers are not given the right to work on behalf of the Workers' Party and the SV, who sit in the Government with the power. What do we learn from newly arrived immigrants when they do not have the right to work? Temporary employment in private businesses will not be covered by the LO, and the government parties will not have any part of it. This helps to keep immigrants out of work. This continues to thrive on the over-exploitation of welfare systems, and of course on crime, etc. This hall helps to keep the poor poor, and this hall helps to create sub-classes of immigrants. It doesn't just look like you don't have the ability, but you don't have the will either. I'm getting bored, I'm getting annoyed, I'm getting depressed, and I get fighting when I see that minorities are systematically getting badly out of control in this area. I'm surprised at the change of words. I want to bet and raise, and I don't want the good will. I am pleased with the good will of the representative Karin Andersen, but it is not enough with words and loose talk and to show care for each other. I want concrete promises, concrete measures and concrete action. If we don't succeed with the minorities in this country, we will fail as a nation, and it's time for this hall to take it in. I would like to see this nation succeed. This immigrant group has come to stay in Norway. The guest workers did not go back, and we, the children of immigrants, consider us Norwegians. It's time we were taken seriously. It is high time that policies were set up to target them, to help immigrants. Helping immigrants is helping Norway. It's actually help for self-help. The left is ready to take responsibility, and I hope that the Government and government parties will see that the fight against poverty is urgent. Unfortunately, this fight does not have many strong speakers out there, and this House should be obliged to do so. That the poor don't have strong speeches out there to fight their case, should oblige this hall. What else are we elected to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1332	We have had a debate on an important topic, and we largely agree on objectives, importance and complexity in this area. Both the opposition and the position politicians have pointed to things that work: kindergartens, education, dropouts, and not least work for everyone – and action plan will most of us have. But I have to say that what I don't understand is the relationship between the opposition's criticism and what they're actually doing. They criticize the government for working too little and too late on this, and they say the government has had four years on it. At the same time, they use words like ‘daught’, stand or join together. The representative Robstad from the Christian People's Party takes it for a certainty that we are all in this room for the Nordic model, and the Røe Isaksen representative believes that there is agreement on the broad welfare measures in Norway. Then it is more than paradoxical that they themselves have failed to agree on this skill or to agree on the proposals that they themselves actually make in this matter. Once again in an important matter, they do not stand together, and it is interesting to note that this concerns matters that concern those who have little. I wonder if consensus isn't any bigger when we come to business policy and tax. I therefore experience this argument and the priorities that the opposition has, which are quite fragmented. The connection to the joint responsibility of those who fall outside is one of the most important political approaches we can take. It's the support of the welfare community, and it cracks the right-hand side in every direction. The progress party would change Norway in 100 days, and the right-hand side would generally have less to the community and more to the individual. It is the joint joint responsibility that has lifted many out of poverty, and that is what is going to do in the future as well. I must allow myself to bring a little story from Setesdal. There was a lady who was somewhat concerned about the youth's relationship to money. She said, "Money doesn't raise them, but white mopeds they should have." And that's how I see the argument on the right-hand side is in this case. They want everything, but not what really works.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1343	Yesterday, the newspaper Our Country had a statement about child protection as a poor case, in the sense that child protection pays places in kindergarten, SFO and leisure activities for children from poor families. A report by Ingunn Studsröd at the University of Stavanger shows that child protection has changed character, which of course can also be good and good. Early efforts towards both children and families are important in the fight against poverty. However, I feel justified in stressing that child protection must be primarily child protection, not parental or family protection. In recent times, we have unfortunately had some child protection issues in my county where the consideration of parents and the lack of early intervention has ended in abuse and significant care failure. When I find reason to point this out in this context, it's because addiction, poverty, and failure to care for children are usually related. A long life has taught me that as a society, unfortunately, we have to break up families with heavy drug abuse for the sake of both the children and the addicts themselves, and that we too often wait too long to intervene. Then we need to strengthen child protection. Not that I want to reintroduce the law of prosecuting, but that in its time it helped to keep some heavy drug users alive, is raised beyond doubt. That's why we now need a much better care with enough capacity and with good deals, so that we can bring the addicts back to society. It's demanding, but it's possible, and it benefits. The labour market enterprises — and we have visited some of them lately — are full of examples of this. It's also part of the poverty fight. So finally, I think it is commendable that the Christian People's Party invites you to do a good job in the fight against poverty. That skill is coming, but I'm not so sure that everyone is going to participate in it. When I e.g. he hears the representative Eriksson say that for his part he believes that tax relief will help solve the poverty problems in this country, then the representative Eriksson is in a completely different arena from what we are, for all statistics show that the poor in Norway do not have taxable income. That's the main problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1356	The representative, the Red Icemaker, suggests that I have more or less thrown Soria Moria overboard. I just want to say that the point here is that we have had a huge increase in wealth for most people in Norway in recent years. It's also a huge increase in consumption. The financial crisis has come through well, and after some decline it is expected that we will again have an increase in the growth of our consumption. My point was that then the number of poor people, measured at the EU's income limit, can increase if we do not have the power to withdraw the marginal groups that fall outside this welfare increase. For families with two children, this limit is now NOK 331000 per year. year in net purchasing power after tax. I think we should be aware that there has been a significant real wage growth for people with persistent low income in Norway during this period. I agree that although there has been such growth, this growth is not sufficient for those who fall outside and are not in this growth. I think it is very important to have this picture when we are going to discuss what is appropriate action in the fight against poverty, precisely because we are not talking about poor people as one group, that we are not talking about poor people like us and them – I hear a bit of a tendency towards it in this debate – because then I don't think we are able to set up good schemes, which are targeted at them. We know what generally seems to drag people into the increase in wealth. It's kindergartens, it's schools, it's education, and it's work. I can again stress that in these areas the Government has a good policy, and we shall not wait to develop it further until the announcement comes in spring 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1367	The poverty debate in today's Velferds-Norway may be a painful and difficult topic to address, but poverty problems should not be hidden, nor should they be discussed in the closed room. For this reason, the debate today is extremely important. The concept of poverty is diverse, and it can also be very visible. If we look out of the window from this room, we can see people begging, looking for values in trash bins. That makes the impression on us, and I don't think anyone is unaffected by what's happening, and by what you see. But all poverty is not visible in the streetscape. All those who have spoken here in the past have been concerned with those who were born into poverty statistics, namely the children. It is not nice to record that more and more children become part of this statistics. Working to get the kids out of the statistics will be our common challenge. It's about a lot of measures. Working for everyone is the most important thing. Prevention efforts through the growing-up environment and education are other measures. When studies show that children from low-income households participate to a lesser extent in leisure activities than other children and young people, there is reason for extra concern. We're talking about the everyday life of a lot of kids. One of our most important tasks is to give these children the opportunity to be children in line with other children and, not least, with other children. In Soria Moria, the government has been very clear that children and young people should be given the opportunity to participate and develop in society, regardless of the economic and social situation of their parents, and that children should not experience social exclusion as a result of the family’s economy. We all agree that there needs to be a strong effort to remove poverty in Norway. That way might be long, but we're on it. The opposition has presented it as nothing happening in this debate, but it is also important to note that many concrete measures have been adopted specifically for this group of children and young people. I'll mention a few. In the state budget, it's set at 3 million. to measures to strengthen work on inclusion and poverty, covering all groups and individuals falling outside the Community. We know that sport and the rest of the Freewill Norway are doing a fantastic job of having children integrated into a community. In order to further strengthen this work, and especially in urban areas, a mechanism has been established to include particularly young immigrant girls in various sports. We can also mention cultural school offerings such as the cultural school bag and cultural cards for young people. Common to these is that they are important offers to the most vulnerable group of children and young people. It is also important to mention the diversity of offers under the Freefonds scheme. As the representative of Gullvåg pointed out, it is also important to realise that child protection has an important job to do in relation to the use of poverty in our country. Time's up, so it's just as good to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1394	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is absolutely essential and incredibly important for Norwegian society that we have a good economic policy, growth in the number of jobs, and that more people can get into the labour market and thus increase their income. My point was just that if there's a huge difference between reality and rhetoric, you have to do something with either rhetoric or reality. It's not a safe way to do nothing with any of the parts. I am also very pleased that we got a more humble tone in the debate from parts of the red-green parties. I also fully agree with the representative of Solhjell that these are complex issues. But I think when he talks about the Nordic model, he confuses the red-green rhetoric with reality. There has never been any secret in Norway that there is a broad consensus that we should have a publicly funded healthcare system, a school for everyone, care for the elderly, regardless of the wallet. But it is not the case that the Nordic model, which includes bourgeois governments both in Sweden and Denmark, and which includes a history where the Right and the bourgeois parties have also contributed and sat in power, is the same as the Workers' Party's programme adopted at all times. There can be no particularly good starting point for the debate. So we agree on some basic stakes. So the question is, how are we going to move on? We see that the gaps in the welfare community are still large. I think having a consistent policy to pay off work is important. It is not, in fact, as Mr Gullvåg says, that tax relief is insignificant. I registered this with pleasure that the representative Andersen also meant in Dagbladet just a few weeks ago. Many people with low incomes, unearned pensions or other public schemes actually lose money to go from a public system to work, among other things. because the tax rules are not good enough. We have to make the rules so that the threshold for entering the labour market is much lower. We need to ensure that the measures we have for vocational rehabilitation – all these things that prevent people from falling out of work – are strengthened and do not get an emergency stop. We also need targeted measures. Not many weeks have passed since the Right suggested in this room that a specific targeted action be taken on the model of the Youth Card. The cultural card, as in Ålesund municipality, ensures that all children in all municipalities in Norway are given a chance to participate in voluntary activities and cultural services. All of these things are important, and if the government is more humble and doesn't think they're with all the answers, maybe we can get a little bit on the way. Finally, Mr Henriksen's representative. It is true that the opposition has not yet presented a government programme. She'll be fine. We'll see about that. But now it is not particularly impressive that as a red-green government – which sits by a majority on the Stortinget, and has done so for five years – it agrees to do more. It can't be particularly impressive to use the consensus and the majority of the Biggest to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1405	The President is not going to interfere in the debate, but will only state that in Finland the Social Democratic Party is in opposition. Then there is reason to assume that the government will consider itself civil in the listing of the situation in the Nordic region. Then we proceed to the next speaker – Thor Erik Forsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1410	The representative of Raja was involved with the temporary work permit for asylum seekers. Now I see that the representative has left the hall, but he has made repeated attacks on the SV and the Workers' Party for such a kind of policy. But it could perhaps be better to point the finger at itself when it was your own government, the Bondevik II government, who actually made sure that asylum seekers were no longer given a temporary work permit. The exposure to SV is ridiculed a little, and it is very quickly brought forward in this debate that it is about political will. Of course, this is about political will. Combating poverty is about being a fellow human being, but it is also about our willingness to invest in the people who fall outside. It is both the Progress Party and the Right who, in their chronic fear of contributing through the tax bill, are precisely looking for measures that allow people to be lifted out of a desperate life situation, which means that they are actually getting slightly disqualified. Because it costs money to employ people, whether it's about strengthening drug care, nav, criminal or child protection, because there's too many people who are still not seen and heard, and who deserve us to stand up. In fact, we in this room, which is made up of relatively well-nourished people, have to be willing to give something of ourselves in order for others to get better. That is what solidarity is. That's what it is to set up for others – not just as the Progress Party so often does: steals from the next generation of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1417	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1420	I must be allowed to comment on the comments of the representative, Kari Henriksen. I want to confirm that the Christian People's Party is going to fight for a safe, public health system, a safe and good public school and also a safe care of the elderly for everyone, regardless of financial standing, precisely because we, as many people have been involved, are building on the Nordic model. I thought it was an interesting perspective that came up, that the Nordic model, on which Solhjell's representative was involved, should be SV's programme, and not necessarily Finland, Sweden or Denmark. I think that perspective is quite useful. The representative Henriksen says that the community of today's government is only the state or the public, while for the Christian People's Party perhaps the most important community is the family, because the family e.g. is close to the poor children. Securing the family, securing the community in the family is one of the most important things — or the voluntary community where children can gather and can actively participate in an important community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1427	First of all, I think that the representative, Mr Solhjell, made a useful confession. He said in his post that we had discussed norms for social assistance for many years, that it was a matter that SV has fought for too long, and that it is still being discussed. Then he went on to say that it will also be important to discuss norms of social assistance in the years to come. This must mean that at least the current government has not intended to introduce norms in a good time, as he believes that it will still be important to discuss this matter for many years to come. I think that was a useful recognition and clarification from the SV parliamentary leader. So until what Karin Andersen said about the qualification program. The qualification programme is important, provided it works. But the latest report from the National Audit Office does not indicate that it works very well when we know that four out of six offices had not arranged, among other things. for individual plans for each individual, which was the very basis for an individual and good follow-up of those participating in the qualification programme. I think the sitting government and the government parties must take responsibility and make sure that the qualification programme works as intended. Then to treasure. I talked about tax relief in the context of a more flexible working life. I think the most important way out of poverty is participation in working life. I believe that there must then be a tax policy that not only makes it profitable for companies to hire more people, but also makes it profitable for individual employees to take up a job. This I think is important. I note that the representative of Gullvåg disagrees with that, that it will have no meaning. In that case, I think he's quite alone in this hall to mean it, but it would have been interesting to know that there is also a basis for the government's general opinion. Then it's actually so that tax relief will matter to everyone. If you increase the tax base, it will, of course, apply to all those who are just above the minimum rates, for example. people who are disabled, rehabilitating, rehabilitating, etc. They'll get a better economy, instead of poverty. That's perfectly obvious. I think that might be an important element. The representative, Forsberg, said in an excellent way: ‘It costs money to have people employed.’ The tax system is one of the costs of employing people. If you could have seen other ways to set it up, you could actually get down to the cost level and make it more profitable to hire more people. The more people who become employed and participate in the labour market, the more likely they are to be brought out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1436	The qualification programme is important. But it becomes a little paradoxical when the representative of the Progress Party draws up statistics from 2008 to assess how this works – there are many more who are now participating – and also represents the party that will remove the whole scheme. They want to remove this money. It is the most important money for the most disadvantaged, so that they are given financial security and a scheme that enables them to get out of work. And not enough with that, the Progress Party will also have removed the social benefits that single caregivers will have to have for education. We know that education works. The system works. The progress party will remove it, because no one shall have anything more than others. All shall be treated equally. I know how it goes when you treat everyone the same way. It's like Northug and I were supposed to go skiing together. We could have equal coaches, get the same amount of money if we won, the same timing and, to a certain extent, equally good assumptions, but I know who would have won. It won't be credible when the party that wants to remove these arrangements criticizes their outcome. It is such that everyone is entitled to this scheme. So to the right: the right is occupied with e.g. secondary school non-employment. But the right has been against all students being entitled to secondary education. It's a model they're saying today that they agree with. They've been against homework, which we know works the most for the kids who labor the most. Now we give it to everyone for free, because homework is important, so knowledge and mastering are going to come to all the kids. It is said that there are no proposals that the Government agrees with. No, we don't. We need to step up efforts to combat non-response. We're making an early effort in kindergartens. We say we want a better distribution policy, because we know that in societies with smaller differences, it becomes less poverty and that the consequence of poverty is reduced. I think it's a good idea if we can lower the taxes a little for them with the lowest benefit and income. But I also think it's right that we tighten up more on top, not only to fund a necessary boost for those who have bad advice, but also because societies with less differences are better off living in for everyone and at least as productive. It shows research and comparable figures from European countries. The survey also includes overseas countries such as Canada and the United States. It is an important dividing line in Norwegian policy. I feel that we disagree. It is about the difference between civil policy and the policy of the red-green government. I am convinced that if we are to eliminate poverty, we need to get less difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1445	Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1448	Apart from the fact that tax relief almost solves all the problems that the right parties face, I find that I, Røe Isaksen and Eriksson have a very different perception of reality. They believe that it is the burden of taxation that makes young people, immigrant women and single-parents choose social assistance rather than paid work, implicitly that they do not want to participate in the labour market because they have such good arrangements that it does not pay to work. I think that's a totally crazy notion. That's probably why we belong to different parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1455	I note that some of us from the government parties here today are being criticized for publicly believing something about what can work in the fight against poverty, while at the same time being criticized today for not going far enough. With respect to reporting, the Government put down the Distribution Committee, we have said we should follow it up, and we have put a process for an overall assessment, with new and reinforced measures to combat poverty in a coming enlargement message. It's a warning of a session bet. Then it must also be that we have to be allowed to relate to the already committed process and come back to things in the right order, and not in the context of a proposal for a representative promoted in the middle of that process. We're coming back to these things, and we've promised a bet today, there's no doubt about it. This is the main issue of the Government. It is clear today that the Nordic and Norwegian models are a common political project. Oh, yeah, that's great. It hasn't always been like that. And the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about that there's a hole in the Norwegian model, so people fall through. That's a picture I don't like. But okay, that's now that we haven't managed to catch up with everyone. It's people who are outside the community, that's what we're discussing today. But what is the solution? Is it doing more of what works, strengthening the universal welfare systems to capture those we're talking about today, or is the solution to fill those holes with something else? And what's the Progress Party and the Right want to fill the so-called holes with? Is it to weaken welfare systems, that people should take more responsibility to succeed themselves, as it was said? Does it create less social differences? Is there a privatisation of health and school services, where the richest and the richest can buy out the best services? Is there something that makes less social difference? Zeroing out the qualification program, does it make less social difference? Is it to weaken workers' rights, to provide more individual wage fixing and to provide tax incentives to the high-wage groups with a social cohesion policy? Is an alcohol policy release, which will lead to increased use of drugs, a good policy to balance differences? Is it a good policy for children in poverty statistics who are struggling with parents living with a drug problem? Is it to make everyone the minimum pensioner, and that everyone will then take care of the rest themselves, a good social cohesion policy? Is it to drop the market in areas by area, a good policy to create smaller differences in Norwegian society? No, it's not. It is easy to stand here today and discuss poverty as if it is a separate isolated problem that is not related to the rest of the policy. It doesn't work that way, and it's the parties on the left, which have a consistent policy in which we strengthen the community and not weaken it, which will succeed in the fight of poverty reduction in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1470	It is tempting to start a new polemics with the representative Trettebergstuen, but then there will probably only be more lines, and then we have it going on. But I just have to say that I think it's an advantage that you don't base the reality on the rhetoric you get from the party offices. And to the surprise that the Nordic model, with all that it implies, has broad political support, let me give you an example: one of the most important things in the Nordic model is, among other things, that we have had open economies. We are one of the countries in the world with the greatest protection of ownership. Willoch's reforms in the 1980s enabled the government to create an open society, create new dynamics and life in the Nordic model. All these things I also want to have a ownership of as a Right-Man. I took the floor to make a very specific comment to the representative Andersen, who says that the Right is against having a right to go to high school. It's true that the Right was against Reform 94 as it was presented, but it wasn't the right to go to high school that was the reason for that resistance. The reason for that resistance was trying to transform a school system. You cut too drastically on, among other things, the number of lines, and it had major unfortunate consequences. In retrospect, the Right has rather gone into the limelight to say that more people are going to get the right to go to high school, by saying that it is also going to apply to adult students, that you are going to get the right to go back. Fortunately, this is now a practice we have. When it comes to homework, I'm very -- very -- for homework. After all, it is an initiative that has been taken in several Right-Handed municipalities, among others. Here in Oslo, just because the right has been concerned that the school should give equal opportunities to everyone, no matter where you come from, and because the equality school, as we've called it for so many years, is bad at one thing, namely, producing equality -- it doesn't even equal the social differences. The right has also spent money every year in our alternative budgets to have more homework, not less. With regard to fiscal policy and the representative of Gullvåg, I fully agree that it is not, of course, the case that people choose to go to social assistance. No one wants it. But I think it's a little much needed by people that we're going to demand that they lose money on going from a government support scheme and going to work. I don't think that people are gay economics and purely rational economic agents, etc., but it's a little bit much to demand that they lose money, so get less to go with this month because you're moving from a government support scheme to into working life. So I'll recommend the red-green fraction that you take a little training. Representative Andersen has very good points in this regard, which she can certainly share with the representative of Gullvåg at the next joint fractional meeting of the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1481	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[See pages 2459 and 2460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1497	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1506	The background to this case being dealt with in the Storting is different statements in the January press, where it was found that prisoners from the EEA area who are serving more than one year of imprisonment can be regarded as members of the public interest, and then have the right not only to cover the costs of health care under compensation, but also to build up the rights they can bring with them after the end of the settlement and expulsion. After these observations, relatively strong reactions have occurred. What has initially been done in the legislation to find a practical solution to ensure the right to health care under compensation can clearly have consequences that none of us politically support, namely that criminals who do not live in Norway and who come here and do criminal acts, work up the right to benefits they can obtain after the end of acquittal and expulsion. This is obviously completely unreasonable, and it is contrary to people's sense of justice. One must not profit from crime. It sends a very unfortunate signal, and it does not exactly facilitate the fight against so-called charter crime committed by foreign citizens in Norway. Just so it's said, it's obvious that as long as foreign criminals are in Norwegian prisons and are sentenced, they will have the right to receive the necessary health care and emergency assistance, like everyone else. What must be prevented, on the other hand, is that the same criminals under restitution process economic rights that they can collect after an end of reconciliation. This has been discovered by the Government before. Then there's been an interpretation contest. And that's what we need to clarify: what limitations can we put into our own law so that the necessary costs of e.g. health care is covered at the bottom — that the border is drawn in a reasonable place, so that we avoid foreign citizens acquiring rights that they can take with them after an end to their acquittal and expulsion? I am very pleased that the Minister of Labour and, to the extent that the Minister of Justice was also aware of this already the day the matter was first raised, in the Questionnaire, that they were going to start work here to clean up the legislation and make sure that it is not lucrative to commit criminal acts and make judgments in Norwegian prisons. Everyone in this room agrees that criminal activity and the compensation of foreign citizens in Norway should not be paid by benefiting from the benefits of popular security after being out of prison. But in the setting of the case, the opposition goes further. The problem is not only the right of prisoners to benefits after acquittal, but also under acquittal. The opposition, in its comments and in its proposal, says that prisoners should not be entitled to membership of the population during or after acquittal, which will also mean that rights to assistance in the name of propriety will have to be lost while they are in Norwegian prisons. We are talking about the coverage of elementary health care. Let's be clear: it hasn't been about this, and it's not about the government to exclude people like zones in Norwegian prisons, the right to health care. As long as they are in Norwegian prisons, they shall have such a right. They also have a right to this. The opposition has its own views on this — whether they believe that prisoners in Norwegian prisons should be discriminated against if treatment is needed because of their country of origin. In that case, it is an unsolvable practice that the position does not support. I am pleased that the Council of State has said so clearly that current practice and legislation will be cleared up, so that the legislation, and its practice, will be in line with people's sense of law, and not least that we will have legislation in this area which will help to strengthen the fight we are fighting to combat crime in general, in particular against foreigners who commit crime in Norway, and which will also support the work of getting foreign criminals to son in their home country. Criminal exploitation of lucrative rights after termination in Norwegian prisons is not an acceptable practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1526	I believe – as the rapporteur was also concerned – that many of us were more shocked when we saw the disclosures the media included in this matter. I also believe that what came out in particular. The evening post just over New Year's, goes a little beyond the legal opinion that people have. I am very pleased – and I want to stress it – that the Council of State is taking the problem seriously and that she has started a work related to it. I am also very pleased that the entire committee sees the unfairness that, among other things. was revealed in the media. It would be unreasonable for one from Bulgaria – if it is true what the Evening Post wrote in its article – to have an annual salary of between 18 000 and 19 000, for example. 14 years of housing in Norway could take more than one year’s pay home in retirement. I don't think any of us want it to be like that, and I'm very happy that it's being cleaned up in it. So to our proposal, as the rapporteur said. The whole point is that you lose the right to earn while making amends. Because if you don't get the right to earn a living while you're sonning, it doesn't mean a change from today's practice either. Of course, all those in Norwegian prisons shall have the same health follow-up rights in case of serious illness. There is nothing in this proposal about restrictions in this area. What we're talking about is the social security benefits that you earn and can take with you in retrospect. And I hope, as I said, that the work is done quickly, and that we get a quick decision on the matter and a rapid cleaning up of the law. It would also be interesting to challenge the state councils on what types of welfare schemes foreign criminals as zones in Norwegian prisons can take with them. Is there such an overview, and if so, what welfare schemes are there that are embedded in that system? I could imagine knowing that. It would also have been desirable to clarify when one can expect the Stortinget to be presented with a case with changes in the law. With that I choose to end, and I address the proposal that we are promoting, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1539	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1542	I join the large majority – right is part of the large majority – who reacted very strongly to this matter. I want to pay tribute to the Government, and to the Councils, because the first day said clearly whether this is an unacceptable practice, not only because it is perceived as grossly unfair and unfair, but also because it challenges our perception of justice – our belief in the criminal system – and, in the utmost sense, the opening up of our welfare systems. I think this in the worst case way contributes to increased fear of alienation and stigmatisation. For precisely such statements — which are obviously unreasonable — are very easily suffocated along with other debates. As a result, it becomes more difficult to find that Norway has a successful integration policy in many ways, and that in many ways we also have a rapid and cash treatment for people who come here solely for the purpose of committing criminal acts. Welfare schemes in Norway are based on the principle of acquired rights. Those who receive a social security or a pension in some sense get it measured against what they have paid through normal work and paid social security contributions. Of course, the fact that criminals foreign nationals who are in prison and have never done any kind of work in Norway will have the same rights simply because they have been arrested by the police and convicted in the Norwegian judiciary is absurd. When the Right also supports the proposal to submit a case on this already in the spring, it is to emphasise the seriousness of the matter and that this is a matter of making rapid decisions – and where rapid decisions should be made. I want, before I finish, to make a visit to the representative of Trettebergstuen, because I fully agree that, in the name of propriety, of course, as a non-Norwegian citizen – as a foreigner – you should also have access to elementary health services, etc. in Norwegian prisons. But I am not aware of social security rights as such. It's not like you have to give people the right to earn rights in the Norwegian population because we, for example. should be able to provide them with a decent health service — at least a minimum of health services — which we, as a civilised and decent society, should do. So I don't understand that the opposition's remarks about it should be seen as an attack on basic human treatment also by foreigners in prison. But that is to establish a principle: that you do not have to give social security rights to people who are in prison, who are neither Norwegian citizens nor have anything to do in Norway when they have made their judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1555	The President would point out that the term'sauce together' is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1558	I think most people agree with this matter, and I fully agree with what the rapporteur said. But I have to admit that I think it is a bit strange. The reason why questions are asked about it is of course, among other things. It says you're busy doing this fast. At the same time, a number of questions are now being asked: What is this really about? We do not know exactly what is going on – what rules, what welfare schemes are there, asks the representative Eriksson. And so, based on a lookout in a newspaper, you have made very concrete proposals to be implemented in ours – without really knowing what this is all about! The Council of State and the Government have said that this should be done as soon as possible. I am perhaps most amazed at the Right and Christian People's Party who have joined this. They wouldn't have done this if they had been in government, because here the government says it should do it as quickly as possible: if you do it in ours, you can do it in ours. I don't think there's any disagreement about that. But I think you've gone a little too far. In fact, the comments state that health and pension expenditure is involved, and therefore there is reason to ask these questions. So here, I think you let the opposition role go a little bit beyond what makes sense. I'm convinced that the government will come up with a solution to this, because I think this violates the sense of justice of all of us just as much. But we have to go through these arrangements so that we do it correctly, both in relation to international commitments and so that we know what we're talking about. I have experience that the newspapers sometimes write something that is not exactly true. Sometimes they exaggerate the numbers, or the effect, or they wonder a little about what might have happened, but that might not have happened – I don't know. That's why I think we have to do this the serious way. It is not to adopt the time when this matter will come to the Storting, but to fully support the Government that it will come to Stortinget as soon as possible with a system and clarification – or a change of rules – that will enable us to achieve what we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1571	This is the other matter that is being debated here today, which goes on what I want to call the back of the EEA Agreement. It is written in the statement that this is the result of a legislation included in Norway’s EEA obligations. I am glad that this matter is taken up, but I wonder a little about the role that, among other things. The Christian People's Party has occupied. They brought this up with the Minister of Justice in the Questionnaire, and they got a very clear answer. But yet they do not trust that this will be followed up by the Government. With regard to the content of the case, we currently have good welfare arrangements in Norway. That's what we're going to have. There are also costly arrangements. People have a willingness to stand up and be on the fissure layer. But this kind of look-up that the Evening Post had here, that foreign criminals should earn social rights under redemption, can help to weaken the confidence in our social security systems and the willingness to be part and parcel of the split. I am therefore so glad that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour were early out and decided that this is not acceptable. I look forward to hearing the Council of State's description of both the facts of the case, what is possible room for action within the current legislation, and whether there is a need to make legislative changes. For the Central Party, trust in public confidence is more important than respect for the EEA Agreement. I find it difficult to believe that the EEA Agreement will oblige Norway to make foreign criminals earn pension credits and rights under compensation, but if it is not possible to find solutions under the EEA Agreement, I believe, and the Central Party, that this is a fight that is suitable for taking up in Brussels. This is such an unreasonable arrangement that it must be brought up in Brussels. It is far from the core of the four freedoms we are talking about, we are talking here about respect for the Norwegian welfare systems. They're important to the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1586	First, I want to commend the state councils, which went together when this matter became known, and clearly said that one wanted a change. For what is this really about? Well, that's the understanding of the People's Security Act and how that law is interpreted. And what's interesting is that he was interpreted in a completely different way as late as last year's revision. That means that what we're really discussing is whether we can go back to the old understanding that was, and as one knows, there's been a little internal dispute about it. What are we talking about? Well, we're talking about people who behave unlawfully in Norway, who commit crimes in criminal acts, who are put in prison and thus work up health rights and automatically become members of the people's rights, so that they get health rights and pension rights. That means that when you come to Norway illegally and get convicted, you process some dishes. It also means that you rock a little bit at the legal point with which I believe most of the Norwegians are. Because what's interesting is that if you get jailed for a year, you'll get some dishes. If you are imprisoned for three years — that is, you are guilty of more serious crime — you will also be paid the right to a basic pension from the age of 67. The signal effect of what I think is very bad. Therefore, I am pleased that the government has informed that she wants to come back with it. Because it is against people's justice that a person pays crime in that way, and especially when it is that the more serious crime is, the more justices get one. This is, of course, about people who might want to zone in their homeland. That's why I think we have to do something about it when it's about health rights, and when it's about the right to become a member of the people's rights. But when we say that, we don't say that there shouldn't be a right to health care. In the comments that Andersen points out, we only say that there are dishes that they get today, we do not say that they should not receive them. I thought it was important to clarify for the Christian People's Party. What I would also like to point out in that sense is perhaps a difficult parallel to draw: we are involved in another matter that is now being dealt with in the Stortinget, in the Health Committee, which concerns the right to the necessary health care for paperless immigrants, and I have also registered – if not in the comments of the Committee, I have seen it in newspaper headlines – that the Government wants to do something to ensure the necessary health care. Then I think that something similar must be possible to give to these people as well – that one can make sure that they get the necessary health care, but that they don't become members of the public, that we are going back to the old understanding. The reason why the Christian People's Party has agreed to the proposal that lies here is simply that we want to press. I can't let you draw parallels to the previous thing that we're dealing with, where we've seen releases on one and the other. On January 6th, the State Council of Storberget, just enough, clearly and clearly when I challenged him as to whether it was possible to come back quickly, said that he had had dialogue with the Government Council of Bjurstrøm, and that he believed that it would «go quickly». In my opinion, without a seat in government, six months are relatively fast. That's why I didn't find it problematic to go into a proposal that says the government will file a case during the spring. If there is no problem, and if we are some, etc., it should be possible to find arrangements that can easily fix this. That's why I also expect the Council of State, when she takes the word afterwards, to be able to do the right thing for a process further, so that we can be sure that it will come. The reason why we are in favour of this proposal, is that we want it to come so fast – in the spring, before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1601	It addresses the social security conditions of foreign prisoners in the course of punishment. The Social Security Act does not have its own rules on membership in such cases. The question has to be settled by interpreting the general rules of the Law on Social Security of residence in Norway. Persons residing in Norway are compulsory members of the population. Criminals in Norwegian prisons can be divided into two separate groups: persons who were members of the population’s population until the settlement came into being, and persons who have no connection with Norway other than the criminal offences and compensation. For persons who were members until the settlement, membership is also maintained during the prison stay. These, in addition to the right to health care, will earn pension rights. The law has no rules on the cancellation of membership due to criminal offences or expulsions, but there are rules on the cancellation or reduction of benefits during compensation. But this is about those who were members before the award. In the case of persons without any connection to Norway other than criminal matters, the Ministry has argued that, in accordance with a judgment of law, reconciliation in Norwegian prisons is not to be regarded as an illegal residence in Norway. In practice, this has until now been interpreted in such a way that persons with a judgment of 12 months or more are therefore to be regarded as members of the public interest with a right to health care. In reality, the question of the social security situation of prisoners to be expelled after settlement is about finding a practical solution to cover health care for this group. The Directorate has no record of pension entitlements earned only in Norwegian prisons by persons who have not otherwise been legally resident here. During the thorough review that I have now undertaken, I have seen that detention in itself may not be regarded as an adequate basis for ordinary membership of the population as resident here. The case has shown that the lack of direct regulation of social security membership during detention provides a basis for different interpretations and the possibility of divergent solutions. I would therefore like to send a proposal to consult in a short time – and I would like to stress briefly – for concrete regulation of the issue of social security membership under compensation. I will also ensure proper practice and interpretation of the law in the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. It addresses the issue of possible restrictions on Norwegian freedom of action resulting from the social security rules of the EEA Agreement. A distinction must also be made here between persons who were members before the payment of compensation and persons who have only the criminal matters to refer to. The EEA rules only protect the first group. Under the current Social Security Regulation 1408/71, Norwegian responsibility requires that the prisoner was employed in Norway before the compensation or had social security benefits on the basis of an employment relationship here. Such a person will retain the rights during the atonement. The new Social Security Regulation 883/2004 extends the scope of Norwegian responsibility by including residents. We assume that criminal activity and compensation will not be regarded as residence after the regulation. The essential point in relation to the EEA Code is the requirement of non-discrimination between Norwegian citizens and other EEA citizens, as well as the requirement of equality of residence in other EEA countries residing in Norway. In order to limit benefits for EEA citizens as zones, similar restrictions must also apply to Norwegian citizens. That's not the current policy. The proposals which are first sent at the hearing will comply with the requirements of the EEA Agreement. I have also noticed that the members of the Committee from the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, among others. appear to be problematic in terms of coverage of prison health care, given that this could lead to large expenditures. If Norway continues to be a humanitarian society that respects human rights, I think it is inevitable to ensure that the prisoners receive the necessary health care, even if it costs money. I am pleased to record that perhaps I have read this more negatively than I have reason to do. However, I agree that, for the sake of expenditure, and in particular of the possibility of rehabilitating the prisoners, we should work as far as possible for the transfer to settlement in the home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1633	I note that the Council of State says she will be sending out a hearing note in a short time. Then I could imagine challenging the Council of State that she said a little more about when she expected that consultation note to go out. Is it before Easter, or is it before 1 May? What is the consultation period she's going to add up to? As I understand it, the amendments are already made in the department. The councils have made them. They're the ones to go to the hearing. Does the Council of State then realize that this matter can be brought before the Storting and dealt with before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1638	I operate here with a general consultation period. It's the rules that apply. As far as I recall from my time with consultation deadlines, it is three months. But it comes quickly, so I'll think that the Storting will be able to treat it if they want to treat it. But it is not my job to organize how Stortinget treats its affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1643	I take the word so much to say that the Council of State has registered correctly, and that I agree with very much of what she says in her article. I thought it was a good post. My question follows up a little bit of what the previous replicator said. It's for a short time. It was nice to say that the Council of State stressed that it should be short. We have received some criticism earlier in the debate, and one felt that the proposal is unprofessional. My question is therefore to the Council of State: Does she feel that it is unprofessional and difficult to come back with a case during the spring of 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1650	At first, I think I have to stress that I now do not fully remember how the consultation deadlines are in accordance with the legislative directive, so I have to make reservations. I'm sending this out to the general hearing according to the rules that apply. I think I took a little too hard in. But the question was whether I can stress that it will come in 2010. Was that the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1657	Whether the proposal is unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1662	We will present a proposal for consultation which contains the way in which the ministry and I believe this should be dealt with. I do not want to characterize the proposals of others. I think, after hearing the debate and the speeches here, that everyone has the basis to be satisfied with what is going to be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1667	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1685	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1696	Prop. 64 L deals with several proposals for changes to the laws on employment and social protection, including: proposals for ten days' leave in order to be able to provide care and care to close family members over 18 years of age, proposals to extend the right to leave and care in case of care of close relatives in the terminal phase from 20 to 60 days, and proposals that parents who have taken care of care for at least three years and/or an increase in assistance benefit are entitled to benefits for up to three months after the need for supervision and care has ceased due to the death of the child. Today's society is changing. The big concern one has in today's care community is that a lack of adding and people to help the many who need it. Care services have grown in size and, unfortunately, there does not seem to be any need for them to be reduced in the future. It is positive that many relatives care for their communities in different ways. What the various legislative proposals are about is that this should be appreciated, even from a social point of view. One suggests that working people are given the opportunity to provide care and care in the form of care days, and that parents, who are the best caregivers for their own children, are given an extended period after the period of care with the right to pay from the public, so that they have time to enter the labour market or in education. The starting point of law changes is a unanimous consensus on what is important to point out in this room, as one is not always. The change in the law of extension of leave, from 20 to 60 days, for care of close relatives in a terminal phase, is no discussion around. There is a full consensus that this extension is necessary and correct, because there is a great deal of uncertainty about the duration of care needs, both medical factors and planning conditions at a terminal stage. I am glad that there will be a right to leave of up to 10 days to care for close family members over 18 years of age. But I'm not so happy that these days are without compensation. In 2007, this was done with paid care days for close family members – preferably parents – appearing as a matter of signatures in my municipality. The background was that many people had missed such a suggestion, and that one received feedback that several people were using their own messages to meet different needs to care for their neighbors. In the I.A. debate we've put behind us, this theme should have been more up. Sticky dates are to be used for your own disease, and only this. In my municipality we started with two days of care with pay, which was a full deal from all parties in the municipal government, and in our municipality – apart from the Progress Party and the Right – the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party, SV, Left and the Centre were represented. When this was to be evaluated after a year, it became clear that this would continue. Very positive feedback was received from employees and caregivers, and organisations support this whole-hearted response. There was a greater possibility for individuals to take care of themselves, and a clean-up compared to the wrong use of their own e-mail days. This may be the case in so far as notified measures — in two days’ time — improve the working and care day of the individual, which is very positive. Today's proposal applies for ten days, but then without compensation. Then maybe the two days in my municipality are more valuable for the individual, but unfortunately there is no possibility otherwise in the country. Perhaps the politicians in the municipalities who have a different closeness to society view such a proposal as more important than those in here? In any case, this theme shows it. Many who exercise this care are women, and often women in low-paid jobs. If you want to get others on the track, there's a wrong way not to have pay compensation for those days. In an IA company, a total of 24 self-notification days are available within a year, and then I'm afraid that those who use leave days without compensation will become a minority, and that one will continue as before and take out IA days for purposes other than own sick days. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are some of the reasons why there should be compensation that should not go beyond employers. One believes that more people who want it will take care of their own, and that one cleans up the wrong use of IA days. The change in the law on the right to benefit in a transitional period after the end of child care is important and something that we are all aware of. What makes us see this matter a little different is the basis for further statements to be made. The Government's proposal is that, when a caregiver has taken care of a child for at least three years, a child should be entitled to care allowance and an increase in assistance benefit for a period of three months after the end of the care because of the child's death. Some hearing authorities and the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right believe that this is far too strict. Those who provide such assistance to children with high needs are doing a great and demanding job. Doing this effort for one or three years is equally burdensome both physically and mentally – regardless of the number of years. One needs this option for an extension of three months, regardless of the weight or the length of the care. Therefore, it is wrong to think that one has a greater need for the extension of the benefit after three years than after one year, as this is very individual in terms of both the family situation and the physical and mental experience of the whole. One knows that the relationship to the world of work is quickly weakened. In the case of longterm sick leave, there is a difficulty in getting back into work after a few months. Therefore, as I said, it is wrong to punish the care provider by having as long a period as three years in order to be entitled to further benefits for three months. That is why the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right are proposing at least one year to get the right to further performance for three months. Finally, I have to be allowed to fix an error in one of the suggestions from the minority, on page 9 of the setting. Paragraphs 9-11 shall read ‘new fourth paragraph’ instead of ‘first paragraph’. Then I'd like to bring up the proposals where the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1717	The representative of Laila Marie Reiertsen has addressed the proposals — with that correction — to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1720	Our biggest challenge in the decades ahead is what scholars call demographic change. In simple Norwegian, this means that we have succeeded in building up a public health that makes us grow older. The last generations, as my own, have not been as good as making sure that more children come to, on the level of what they did after the war, as it was not unusual with large children's coals. As a homophile, I guess I can't exactly boast of being a great contributor to this challenge, although it doesn't necessarily stand on the will. This gives us some major challenges in getting enough people to provide the necessary care services in the future. This is why work on an inclusive working life is so important. Today, municipal health services and the family share care responsibilities, and so it has to be in the future. We as a family have to set up when we have sick children and older people who need help. But we can help to make better use of it, so that it is possible to combine care needs and professional activity. It is a pleasure that the Government is presenting these proposals. A new leave scheme with a period of up to 10 days per year without compensation, to provide care to close family members, also helps to legitimise absences in the workplace, which in their own way can help to ensure a more inclusive working life. In the public sector, trade unions have fought for compensation, and it should also be made possible in the wage bill, in the time when we have a large increase in private purchasing power, to give priority to this type of goods rather than to more money in the wallet. Here the majority and minority separate layers. I want to challenge the Progress Party – because I think you do this exercise quite many times by proposing a full wage compensation in case of absence. Is it so that you can trust that the Progress Party, with its chronic reluctance to tax, in its proposal for a revised government budget, will contribute the costs that this will entail for the community – around $1.1 billion to $3 billion? If you do not choose to add this to the revised state budget, it is not a contribution to the families who are struggling. The right to care in the home of close relatives in the final phase of life shall be extended from 20 to 60 days. It's a nice and absolutely necessary extension, because when it goes so wrong that it goes to the end of life and you're sick, you don't always know how long it takes. There are many people who have experienced that the 20 days do not last, and therefore it is a good extension that you now get to two months. When the care relationship has lasted for at least three years, entitlement to continued care allowance and increased support is granted when the care relationship ceases because the child dies. It is absolutely necessary in such a difficult process as the loss of a child, the provision of an opportunity to inform yourself in the workplace after such a strong impact as the loss of one's own child. We think it makes sense to set the limit by at least three years so that you still have the right to care and increased aid. Those who lose a child before this will also be able to get help through daily allowances and qualifying measures with social benefits. I met a parent killer in Sarpsborg who had been in a situation where they had spent a long time nurturing their child. The child had a nursing home when it turned 18 years old, but the break from working life that this led made it difficult for parents to get back into work. But it's through these experiences that you build a lot of valuable life experience, which these parents will use to help others as well. So here, there are opportunities to use this competence for example. Re-schooling, such as: may be trained to become a health professional. We're good in Norway. There are good family values that lie in making ever new arrangements, but in all our eagerness to make new arrangements, we are also involved in creating a competence problem, as the Nav employees describe it, those who are going to manage all our good thoughts and ideas. But, not least, it is often a challenge for relatives who are in a difficult situation in life to be able to be briefed in our different schemes. Therefore, it is positive that the Minister of Health announced in this room on 2 March that a rapid-working sample should be set up to look at the different benefits. Simplification and coordination are taking into account those who need it the most, so that they are able to learn about a difficult life situation. It is important for the majority and for the Government that we contribute to creating good arrangements that help people to have a good relationship with the world of work, even if you can have major challenges in your private life. Just as with health services, we also believe it is important to be able to combine work and being at home in such difficult situations. We also think that it has something positive to add to the community that the workplace should be, in order to also have more energy to give to it when you get back. The government has taken some important steps by facilitating the challenges ahead. I want to address a challenge, in particular, to the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party also has the same challenge, but they don't have the same chronic reluctance to collect tax money. It would be tempting to challenge the Progress Party here today: Is it so that you will put in these funds required to provide full compensation in the revised state budget – what is required if we are to make this scheme work from 1 July?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1743	When one of your closest companions is affected by illness and needs assistance and care, most of us have a strong desire to help. For those who need help and care, there is an extra security if the help comes from someone they know well. I know that many people are struggling with a bad conscience towards sick and fragile relatives and old parents. More residents of the home need more follow-up than public aid can often provide. Some examples are necessary for follow-up to doctors and examinations, or for supervision when they become acutely ill with, for example: flu and fever, but not so sick that they need accommodation anywhere. By facilitating private welfare with the right to welfare leave of up to 10 days, society will be able to save a little in public schemes and expenditures for some practical assistance such as following a doctor and X-ray and hospital treatment, tasks that we know often take a long time. There are probably several of us who have been sitting for a long time waiting for a medical officer or for an X-ray. This is positive. That is why I am pleased that the Government of the Proposition is proposing changes to the law that give the right to welfare leave to help family members over 18 years of age. In addition to this being a good arrangement for those covered by it, there is also a good arrangement for balancing the various jobs. Today, public services are entitled to do so, but not in the private sector. Until now, there has been a lot of circumvention of laws and regulations when a person is going to help an old mother or father. Many have reported ill, either by using self-announcement days or by a doctor who shows an understanding of the situation. After today's change, you don't have to. The question of compensation of pay has been considered in the Committee. I record that there are lots who believe that if it does not come with an income hedge, it will be difficult for many to make use of the scheme. I'm not so sure. Many have probably experienced today's system as severely limiting in order to be able to assist their neighbors. Many people complain and find it difficult to ask the employer for freedom. Asking for a search message seems to make many errors. Today's change contributes to the removal of this threshold. In the case of longer-term care absences, the applicant will be able to apply for other income hedges. Similarly, we support the proposal to strengthen the ability to care for close relatives in the final phase of life through an increase of 20 to 60 days. This is in line with the commitment Right-created three years ago, when we proposed this through our care committee. I am also pleased that we are today adopting improvements in the care allowance system in cases where child care ends because the child dies. The proposal provides for the right to continue to be provided for three months after the end of the care relationship. In this respect, the Right considers that the requirement for a three-year social security allowance is strictly strict. If you have received a care allowance for one year, most people will agree that it will take time to decide after experiencing the death of your own child, no matter how expected. It's about a grieving process that takes time. This is very different from situations in which the condition of care ceases when the child becomes healthy or reaches the age of 18. These conditions are easier to prepare for, including in relation to working life. When children die, the situation is different. That is why the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, have proposed to place a one-year restriction on the receipt of care money instead of the Government's proposal in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1760	We in SV are very pleased with the changes in the law that the Government has presented on the extension of rights in order to take care of family members in difficult and, in part, very critical situations. There are suggestions that several of us have been working on for many years to strengthen those rights. I fully agree with those who say that families in these situations often experience very difficult choices. Many would like to combine private care with public assistance. Many would prefer the public to go in and do the heaviest care tasks, but many would also like to contribute more water. The proposals now put forward help to strengthen them. So a sailor could have wanted a lot more in many areas, but I want to problem a little bit compared to being able to take out ten days without pay. Yes, it's an extension, a new right that hasn't been there before. In this way I am absolutely sure that it will be well received. I'm just as sure that too many people will be able to use these days, but for others it may be critical because you have low wages and high expenses. I don't really think there's anyone who would have been very opposed to setting up such a scheme, but when we see the cost of such a scheme, which the department has calculated to be between $1 billion and $3 billion, we get a little bit more thoughtful. To date, we have discussed the need to step up efforts to combat poverty, and I should honestly admit – at least from our side – that if I had the three billion, I would put them in the poverty pot and not here. That's the balances that we actually have to do when we're driving politics properly. So we can keep working to see if we can get in different types of compensation schemes, but so far this is a big step in the right direction. Several have mentioned that there have been some who have had the opportunity to take such time off, and others have not. It has triggered some dilemmas in many people. Those dilemmas are at least cleared by the road. Then there are some other suggestions, especially this one with the right to care after a care for a child ceases because the child dies. There's a discussion about whether it should be one or three years. I totally understand the good intentions of those who say that they want a year, and I totally understand when you say that this is about a crisis that might be the worst you can experience as a parent, namely losing a child, and that it can take time. The point here is that other support schemes exist, because you have not been away from work for so many years, and there is a type of security network that you can rely on. In any case, very many people will need other types of follow-up, maybe skills enhancement, over longer than three months. If you've been away from work for a lot of years, I'll assume it can be reasonable. That's one of the thoughts you're making. When you look at these arrangements, I think most of us realize that in such a situation, a lot of people might choose to be completely at home for a lot of years and think it's the best. At the same time, we see that this puts some of these families in a very critical situation when you're going back to work. So a combination of being able to keep in touch with the working life and at the same time being able to take a greater responsibility for care at home I think is a solution that very many people will be very well served with in the long run. It gives the greatest security and also a type – what to say – the focus for these families, which might be very good. My soul has been working in kindergarten for many years and I know more such families. For most of them, it is a great strength that they have a link to the working life that makes everyday life have more focus than just one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1773	First, I just want to say that it was a very good post by Andersen, the representative, that I can put a lot behind me. That was a lot of good perspectives. The things we are dealing with today are some small but important steps forward in the necessary improvements to welfare arrangements. One of the proposals is also a partial follow-up to a proposal that we are discussing not long ago. The Christian People's Party had a representative proposal, Document 8:10 S, which was launched in the fall, and which we discussed shortly ago. I found it very positive that it would be better to allow family members to combine professional life with care for relatives. It is important for people that they have the possibility of being more present and caring, but I also believe it is important for society that some tasks can actually be done by the individual, and that society does not have to take everything. So the combination of a good welfare that can be used, and a possibility to do a part myself, I think is a very good solution. But when such good suggestions are made, the Christian People’s Party would wish that the arrangement had been made more complete with the same thing. Once you've taken a step on the road, you might as well have taken the step completely. Because not everyone has the opportunity to benefit from a system of leave for up to ten days to provide care and care to close relatives, if they are paid for it. It may be that only those with good economies have the possibility to benefit from the scheme. This means that the differences between the low pay and those who have a little more to live for can be reinforced. The low pay will, if they are to get free, get even less to live for. Another possibility is that there may be different arrangements in the workplace, which one actually sees as a little bit today when it applies to leave for fathers for 14 days in connection with birth. Some workplaces have their own tariff requirements that give free pay, while others do not – an unfortunate difference. What the government is proposing is a step on the road, but for the Christian People's Party, we should like one to take a full step, as we, together with the Progress Party, suggest in the setting. It is also great that the right of leave and care allowance for close relatives in the terminal phase is now extended from 20 to 60 days. There's a few of us here that would mean a lot to that debt. Being able to have some of their own around them in their last days means something both for those who are in the final phase of life, and for those who have someone they know they will lose. An important piece, which also comes into place, is that it is now possible for those who have had a care allowance or an increase in the amount of aid to be able to keep this benefit for a transitional period of three months. It will allow them to surround themselves and make the necessary changes in life without standing on bare ground economically. From the Christian People's Party's side, I think it's too strict that one should have such support for three years before one gets this right. The problems for caregivers may be the same after a much shorter period of time. That is why, together with the Right and the Advance Party, we also propose that this right should apply after one year. In the aforementioned proposal for a representative, Document 8:10 S, which we discussed earlier, on measures for families who have children with disabilities, the Christian People's Party proposed that this scheme should also apply to those who are beneficiaries of care pay. This was voted down in this room a short time ago, and I'm not going to try to challenge the government party again to try to get them to join it now. But I would like to send a signal that from the Christian People's Party's side I recommend and hope that the Government will take it in the next round, so that one might come back with something there. I would also like to mention what we are fighting for in this matter, namely that one should consider making care allowance, care allowance and increased aid for one benefit, a scheme that parents will be able to experience as a simplification and perhaps more conservative. But it has given us a good signal that there is a fast-working selection to look at, so I have great faith and great hopes that these things can be handled further, so that we can get an even better order at the next turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1796	In this proposition, the Government has put forward proposals for legislative changes to improve the possibilities of active workers to combine care and care activities. Initially, it has a significant public responsibility to provide care services. The Local Health Act and the Social Services Act provide the necessary services to all those in need of care. However, family care is of fundamental social importance. For example, the family has about as much care as the municipal services. Demographic projections show that there will be more elderly and, at the same time, fewer younger people to care for. St.meld. paragraph 25 for 2005-2006 indicates shortages of care providers as one of the main care challenges of the future. This concerns both voluntary care providers and access to health and social workers. Continued high levels of participation will mean that, in the future, there will also be those who are economically active, who will have to provide the voluntary care effort. It is therefore important, from a social point of view, to better facilitate the provision of care by professionals. For the individual it will also be a good thing in itself to have the opportunity to give their closest such care. At the same time, it is essential to maintain a high level of professional activity in order to finance the welfare systems. The proposals contained in the proposal must be seen in the light of the need to balance these considerations. For the treatment of St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, a majority of the Health and Welfare Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left Party of the Innst. S. No 150 for 2006-2007 that ‘it is necessary to look at the provisions on leave with a view to making it easier for dependants who are economically active’, and the Committee provided that the Government would ‘return to better rules on leave in the labour market’. In connection with the proceedings of the Labour and Social Committee at the Innst. S. No 14 for 2007-2008 of a Document No 8-proposals from the Right on the examination of changes to the law giving the right to leave and income protection schemes in connection with care tasks showed the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, among others. to allow an inter-ministerial working group that was already set up to assess the need for changes to the permit rules and compensation schemes. This proposition follows these assumptions. Municipalities are responsible for providing care services. The relatives who still undertake tasks over time that the municipalities would otherwise have to do will have a special situation in terms of both care burden, compensation and working life. The proposals contained in this proposal must be seen in the context of the warning by the Minister of Health and Welfare that a public body is to be appointed to review the benefits of dependants providing care to replace municipal services. Then I'd like to say something about the concrete proposals. I note that there is agreement on the proposal for a new scheme entitled to leave for up to 10 days in order to provide the necessary care for parents, spouse/partners or disabled or chronically ill child over 18 years of age. There is currently no statutory right of leave for close relatives. While the Working Environment Act provides for a reduction in working time for welfare reasons, it is conditional on this not being a significant disadvantage for the employer, and the right does not include full leave. The collective agreements in the public sector provide for the possibility of providing full pay leave for up to 12 working days for important welfare reasons, which will be regularly met by caring for close family members. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure a right of exemption from the provision of care also for those not covered by such contractual leave. A minority in the Committee proposes a right to compensation in the form of benefits from public security. To that I would say that a right to compensation will cost a lot, this is a billion. However, for each employee, there will be a limited loss of income, and I would remind you here that this is a short-term right of leave, which would necessarily apply to cases with limited care needs. On 2 March, the Minister of Health and Health replied to an interpellation on the care pay system in Stortinget, where she, among other things, said we have to ‘all are prepared for periods of time to assist relatives who are unable to master the tasks of daily life — together with the municipal care service. However, we should not have paid by the State or municipality for such normal family care». I agree. The purpose of the proposal for a right of leave is to ensure such a practical opportunity to dispense with the provision of care. A right to leave proposed is not, moreover, an obstacle to tariff compensation. The Government proposes to extend the right to leave and care in case of care of close relatives in the terminal phase from 20 to 60 days. Some people need to be able to spend longer time caring for their closest as well as adapting leave and care allowance so that they can be present until the care needs are completed. The need for predictability of the employer and the maintenance of links with the workplace indicate that such leave must be limited. However, an extension to 60 days could significantly reduce the number of cases of uncertainty about the duration of care needs. I am pleased that there is agreement on the proposal. In the proposal, the Government proposes a right to continued care and increased aid for up to three months after care ceases because the child dies. The proposal is justified by the fact that the person who has received a care allowance or an increase in the amount of aid for the care of children may need a period of reorientation to work at the death of the child. At present, the benefit ceases at the end of the care relationship and parents are at risk of being without income. The proposal assumes full-time care for the child. If you have had classified care allowances, you will have maintained your link to the workplace. The proposal also requires a minimum of three years of prior care. The minority has proposed a one-year vesting period. I believe that a claim for three years prior care is reasonable. There should be a requirement for a certain length of time, the link with the working life will be smaller and the adjustment to the benefit will be greater the longer the care relationship has been. Parents will be entitled to a daily allowance on the basis of the previous three years, so that the person who has received a full-time allowance for at least three years has been cut off from earning a right to a daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1826	As I was in my post, I thought it was very good that was suggested. Of course, I would like you to be able to go further with something, especially the case that, among other things, I addressed a proposal for a representative, Document 8:10 S for 2009-2010, last year. That gallant right to care pay. In this case, there will be a right to care and assistance for three months after the death of the child. We also want it to apply to care pay. Is it possible for the Council to say whether there is a need for care pay to be mentioned in this context or whether it is a desire to look further into whether it should also apply to those receiving care pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1834	I think I should be very careful to refer to what the health minister has been about in the answer that I have also referred to, and which I also believe to remember that the representative himself referred to, this rapid-working sample that will also address the question of care pay. So that case will be illuminated then, if we talk about the same thing, and I think we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1839	Some of us in this room appreciate care more than others. I have a question for the minister. What we see today is that the self-instruction days are used for this purpose, without one being compensated for the days you take out to run care. What does the minister think about it, and will she look at it in the next discussion about the IA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1844	Self-declaration days under the rules on sick pay are reserved for your own illness. So I'm dealing with it as a starting point. So here we have proposed a system, not to compensate for it, but to free people in need of care other than their own. I think that's exactly what you take into account here, and that's what you want to regulate and get a whole in, through the proposal we've put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1851	It is very good that has been proposed here today, but I would like to challenge the Council of State on this with receiving benefits in the form of care allowance and assistance assistance for three months after a child dies. We think the limit of three years is very strict. Nor will it cost so much if this scheme is extended to those who have received social benefits for one year, because it is not about very many people. Fortunately, few people experience that a child like them dies. I ask the Council of State: can she review this again? Can one go round to see if this scheme can be extended to more? Because that's actually a little bit of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1858	I hear the debate and that it is felt that this requirement of three years is too strict. I just want to stress that here you've done an assessment just to look at what this rule is going to ensure. It shall ensure that persons who have experienced such a traumatic event and who have also been out of work because of this must have an opportunity to repent in order to be able to get back into working life. It has been assessed that three years is an intersection of labour relations and whether or not one will still be entitled to a daily allowance. At one year, you'll have many of these rules. We must remember that those who have this system must have a link with the working life in order to receive the care allowance. So our view is that the need is different when you've had a shorter period of care, and that's why you've fallen in three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1863	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1866	Politics is to create values and facilitate people's sense of security and belonging and to have room to live a meaningful life. "When you get old and nobody wants you, look on the roof and let the crow catch you!" We wrote that in each other's memory books when I was a kid. I grew up in a psychiatric hospital. One of the patients was found in a nest of the local district doctor around 1940. There the patient had a ‘boden’ until he was found and admitted to Eg, aged 16, without language and with severe physical and mental damage. My hospital had at that time three levels of pampering. I'm assuming this patient was in the third forethought. The family was poor, and was certainly marked by much guilt and shame and many difficult choices to make. History tells of a privatized care at a time when the care tasks were assigned to one sex, namely, the woman, at a time when there was almost no public care, especially for poor women, who often had care tasks for middle-aged as well as for survival. This story belongs to another time, but it's not that long ago. Political elections have led us forward. The Labour Party is committed to regulating society so that both women and men can take on care tasks without having to give up all other parts of their lives. We have made that clear in Norway. We have built a good public health and care service on stone. Women and men's choices are greater, and there is a high level of security for those in need of health and care services, at any level, to receive good help. But even today, some have difficult questions when close relatives get sick and need something more care than usual for a period of time, or when some of our closest ones are dying. Who will give care, or be with? Can I do this enough? Can I ask for a free pass? Will it take you a long time? Will I be able to go back to work? The other tasks of life cannot be suspended. Kids are going to school, the car is going to the workshop, food is to be traded, and bills are to be paid. The changes we are invited to adopt today are good Community responses to the challenges we all face in life. The proposals balance the consideration of our responsibilities as close relatives, by being exactly that, the public responsibility to take over in whole or in part, if desired or necessary, regardless of the family economy or place of residence. The proposals increase the choice of relatives and take into account the need of the employer for predictability and labour. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the majority comment that deals with the consent of the caregiver, page 9 of the vote. Reference is made to the ‘announced review of the right of leave’. The Government shall review the system of looking at wages and salaries and other benefits, which has also been referred to several times in this case, and this is the notified review referred to by the majority. People depending on the care of others are in a vulnerable situation. It may be difficult to imagine that people who want to take care of other relatives do not have good intentions. Nevertheless, we have knowledge of assault and family violence, and we know that this can occur in all kinds of families. Attention must not be reduced to abuse and family violence. The majority expect the Government to assess this issue in the review of the new care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1885	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1901	I would just like to point out that there is an overall committee behind the vote and the proposals that have been put forward and recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1906	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1924	I travel because it is a very important matter for Norway as an energy nation, but a matter which is very little attempted to be politically anchored in the Storting, of course because the EU's renewable directive does not have to be within the Storing while the Government deals with it, but also because the Government has not provided any energy message in the last four and a half years where they have received the possible signals that the Storing had to have in such a process. Norway undoubtedly has a great energy potential. This is one of the industries in Norway that will survive whether oil is part of the energy potential or not. How, then, do we put our feet in the right direction to unleash this energy potential and use the EU renewable directive in the most positive way possible in that process? And not least, since it has visions in this process, how are we going to do it in a way where we also make money on it and not just save the world? For there is no lack of vision and objectives in the Norwegian energy debate. The question is, are we able to achieve what we set ourselves as goals? At the latest yesterday, the wind energy target of 10 TWh was re-focused. The goal that has been in place for many years, over ten years, is not being achieved. In fact, we're only going to get barely a third. Have we built confidence in the power industry to achieve new goals? The debate on small power and green certificates does not suggest that. The debate on biodiesel does not indicate that. The fact that hydropower has poorer framework conditions today than four and a half years ago does not suggest that. Nor are the objectives of wind power suitable for building trust. Are we realistic in the way we approach this debate? If we look at Minister of Environmental Protection Solheim's journey to Rogaland in the election campaign where he said that Hywind mills are an example for follow-up, and that it should help Norway to meet its 2020 targets, it is not exactly very realistic. Fortunately, the Minister of Energy confirmed this in an earlier debate. When we see the government's technology requirements for new gas power plants in Norway, it is also totally unrealistic technology, and makes the trust between the industry and the authorities and the framework conditions that the authorities offer is not good enough and thus does not help us to develop and exploit the potential we have. In this debate, therefore, I want the Council of State to know the objectives it has when the Government is working towards the European Union in this context, so that the Storting can either applaud the objectives and the means he takes up, or provide corrective solutions. In its renewable directive, the EU has a maximum limit for renewable energy requirements of 50 pst. Is there a target Norway will fight for will also apply to Norway? In that case, we have already complied with the renewable directive. Or should one rely on the results that Norway already has? Or you're going to fall on the growth that many other countries get, which also means that Norway is going up to about 70 pst. and like it on renewable energy? There are significant differences in what is required politically and what is required of the industry depending on its objectives. I think the industry would have appreciated to know a little about how the government thinks. It had at least me and I think the Storting too. In this context: What kind of expectations about new power generation does the government think we should have? What are the expectations of the Government about the need for market power? If there is no link between these, we might get sky-high electricity prices if power generation is too low in relation to market needs, or you can expect that power prices will be very low if production becomes too high in relation to market needs. When we look at what's happening around us, we see that Finns are finishing a nuclear power plant that will give 13 TWh new power. The Norwegian-Swedish green licence market – if it comes into operation and works as you wish – will provide an estimated 20–25 TWh with new power. So many people are talking about Norway being able to save 10–12 TWh alone in electricity consumption through an additional measure. It's not a very clear industrial effort, so what happens there, we don't know. But we know that the climate quota law, as it is now, does not exactly stimulate increased industrial production in Norway. We're not sure how much cable exchange there will be in the next decades. But we know that in the next few years it will be completed approx. 8 000 MW of power generation in Norway, while exchange capacity only increases by around 4 000 MW. This means that the power balance in the Nordic region will be significantly improved. It is very good, as the supply situation we have had in winter has not been acceptable in any way. For consumers, it is nice when electricity prices go down, but for investors, who are finally going to meet Norway’s renewable obligations towards the EU, it would be unfortunate if they were to fear that the price pressure would be so high that it would be unprofitable to expand power beyond what is already in the climate. It is therefore also a good thing that the EU Renewables Directive Government can present some realistic estimates of consumption and production, so that we can at least be sure that there will be a certain balance that will make it interesting for new investors to get in place. It is not enough just to say to the industry: Invest now, before we comply with the EU renewable directive, and then the framework conditions come. On 12 January 2010, the head of new energy, Alexandra Bech Gjørv, said to Today's Business: «The problem is that Norwegian governments have for ten years said that they want window constructions and that there will be viable framework conditions, trust us. Many companies have spent a tremendous amount of time and resources investigating in confidence in the political signals, but so far there has not been much. When you see how much resources we have spent on a huge Norwegian portfolio, it feels a little meaningless." Ergo is not trusted in place. One must be more concrete. Then there are many who expect that no matter what Norwegian investors are willing to take, the EU will have a significant import need as a result of its obligations under the renewable directive. I think that's pretty likely. At the same time, for example: the Energy and Environment Committee has just been in England and has seen that the English are very serious when they talk about their offshore wind turbines. They have a greater willingness to pay for this than what we have in Norway, of course. Norway has much cheaper resources to use first, and therefore there is no reason to take the most expensive things first in Norway. However, if it turns out, after all, that England and other countries are willing to make quite expensive investments to achieve their renewable targets, the EU reports show that they are likely to overachieve their objectives. As some of the arguments disappear, many have seen that Germans and English people want good incentives to come and invest in Norwegian renewable energy: the EU would contribute capital to Norwegian power projects to meet EU renewable targets. Yes, if they can do this by themselves, the only reason that foreigners will buy Norwegian power is that they can buy it cheaper from us in the market than they can produce it themselves in a market situation. There is no reason for them to contribute capital to the expansion of the force itself. Then you also have to ask yourself about the visions you have about wind turbines, which you have about other things that will require subsidies: would Norwegian taxpayers be very satisfied if we were to use taxpayers' money to finance a power project that we have to sell with losses to the European market? It is a perspective that one has to take into account in the assessment when negotiating up to the renewable obligations we want to assume. There is no reason why Norwegian taxpayers should use money to subsidise power projects in Norway to sell them with losses to the rest of the world. And there is no reason why the EU will bring free money to Norway if they can meet their own commitments. They probably have exactly the same mindset in the back of our mind when we talk about renewable energy projects in Norway, that we're going to develop value chains and industries. It is an argument that they will want to have things within the EU more than paying others to do the job, because if they do so within their own countries, they will also get a greater degree of value chain. There are many uncertainties here. I have my point of view on the priorities to be taken. I think Norway needs to invest significantly in hydropower. I think we're going to have a gentle investment in viticulture and bioenergy. I think we're going to have a technology development effort both in terms of CO2 clean-up, and in terms of marine wind turbines. But we have to be realistic about what goals we have for this, so it won't be a precious symbol thing to save the world when the world really doesn't need to be saved because it's doing itself. Again, for Norway, the resources we invest in the energy situation, in environmental measures, provide the best possible return in the long term, not becoming costly monuments of willingness to act, but lack of analysis in the short term. Therefore, I – and look forward to it – want to hear the approach of the Council of State to the EU renewable directive. What are his own goals? What are his expectations regarding the power market, so that our objectives become realistic in relation to the needs of other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1964	The representative of Solvik-Olsen asked many and relevant questions in his speech, and there are many of the questions that I and the Government also asked when we started working with the EU's renewable directive and Norway's position, Norway's process against it. It's a process that we're now in the middle of. It also means that the answers that the representative also asked for are answers that come, but, in many cases, we need some more time to work out the background, the factual basis, because – precisely because, as the representative Solvik-Olsen said, there are major and important questions, questions that will lead to far too many in Norway in the future. The Renewable Directive was formally adopted in the EU in the summer of 2009. The Directive is part of the EU's overall energy and climate package and implies binding national targets for the share of renewable energy in 2020 measured against the overall energy use of the countries. In addition, countries shall comply with a requirement of 10 pst. renewable energy in transport. EU countries started with a renewable share on average of 8,5 pst. in 2005 and shall achieve a target of 20 pst. renewable share in 2020. The Government has established that the Renewable Directive is EEA-relevant and has come a long way in the preparatory work. Both the original proposal for a directive, the adopted directive and the action plan have been consulted in Norway. The Renewable Directive is a comprehensive directive and directly, or indirectly, affects large parts of the energy sector. It has therefore been necessary to carry out in-depth assessments of all aspects of the Directive and its consequences, inter alia. assessments are made of the compliance of the renewable approach in Norway with the Directive. We have now come a long way in these assessments. I continue to pay great attention to the fact that the Storting is being briefed on important points in the process towards final EEA decision. In the case of Norway’s renewable directive obligations, it is still too early to go into detail on a target for Norway and how it should be met, if appropriate. Norway also has a somewhat different starting point than the European countries. Our renewable share was 58,5 pst. in 2005. We have an electricity sector that is close to 100 pst. renewable. The Renewables Directive is also about cooperating at European level on the further development of renewable energy. However, it is premature to conclude on the extent to which the total growth of new renewable production will be internalised in the EU by 2020. We see that individual EU countries are now strengthening their efforts. We want to know more about this when we see the national action plans in the middle of 2010. As soon as Norwegian adaptation is clarified in the decision of the EEA Committee, the Government will take a final decision on how to implement the renewable directive. An EEA Decision will also include the other EFTA countries. An EEA Decision will first be discussed with the Commission, which will then consult the EU Member States. We will also present an action plan for the implementation of the Directive. As the representative refers to, and with which several studies of the power market also conclude, there are expectations of surplus power in the Nordic region in 2020. Good electrical energy transmission infrastructure will therefore be essential for security of supply and the development of renewable energy production. The government will therefore facilitate the increased deployment of network capacity between national and foreign parts. It's going to be part of the energy building we're facing, and we see concrete projects that are now being treated. However, the development of power generation in the Nordic region this winter with an unexpected and significant failure of Swedish nuclear power and an undersized network in several areas in Norway has shown that we need to pay considerable attention to our own security of supply and price stability. Nor can we ignore the fact that hydropower production fluctuates significantly from year to year. Regardless of the renewables directive, we therefore need to pay great attention to renewable energy development by 2020. The government has a significant commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. We have set up a fund, with DKK 20 billion in capital, which ensures long-term and stability in work. The government has entered into a new agreement with Enova to deliver energy results of 18 TWh renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement by the end of 2011. In addition, we have promoted a legislative proposal on energy labelling requirements for construction, and we have presented a national marine renewable energy strategy that includes research and technology development, overall land assessments for the development of marine renewable energy, etc. With regard to the development of new production, we have strengthened NVE’s concessional treatment capacity so that it is now doubled compared to 2005. Our commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement is important for our own security of supply. But I believe that the export of renewable electricity will also be important in climate policy. I assume that the electricity certification market with Sweden and the activities of Enova in the field of energy efficiency and conversion will be the necessary instruments for the development of renewable energy in the years to come. In addition, we are going to negotiate a renewable target with the EU, which is in line with the developments we are in the process of and which we want to move on to renewable energy by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1985	The answer is correct enough, as it shows that the Council of State is also concerned about these issues. At the same time, however, the answer illustrates how far Norwegian energy policy has come. For four and a half years, the opposition to Stortinget has called for an overall energy message that takes account of the very short-term power balance, in the long term, expectations for new production, consumption expectations, what is needed for technology development, what is needed for network transfers, and what is needed by state framework conditions and concession authorities. Then one has been rejected by the red-green batches time and time again, saying that it is strange that the opposition wants bureaucracy through paper work rather than action. Then we get the EU's renewable directive, which is essentially much more extensive than an energy message, because here one will also take on a number of other things in the transport sector, among others. in order to achieve the 2020 objectives – a focus on the whole energy consumption in society. So one has to start many of the assessments that an energy message could have given. Had the government submitted an energy message, one there would have made the overall assessments. Now one sees that the government can't answer very carefully the questions that are raised. They recognize that the issue exists, but some answers and assessments on their own give a hint to the industry about how you think, get one to a very small extent – I'm not saying that one doesn't get it at all, but one gets it to a very small extent. This leaves the industry in doubt. It's actually going to be the Biggest too, because even though the Council of State has said that the Biggest is to be briefed along the way, it's done very little. The opposition sent a letter in December last year asking for an explanation. We'd get that, but it wasn't a time indication. So now four months have passed, and we have to have an interpellation debate to get even to travel the theme here. What becomes a relevant issue in this context is whether the Council of State can provide a clue as to the expected new generation of power. What are the expectations of the Council of State for electricity consumption in Norway and the Nordic countries? What are the government's expectations of new cable connections abroad? It will be very relevant to this balance sheet, and it will be very relevant considering whether investors believe that investing in new renewable energy in Norway will be a point of departure by 2020. Although a given green certificate is being reprocessed and the price of the existing portfolio is being squeezed, there is little reason to believe that the licence price will be so high that one could earn more on it than a loss on a lower market price on the existing portfolio. Then you end up with such a Catch 22 situation, where everyone sees where you should, but no one dares to do anything, because it has already led to the price pressure. I hope the Council of State comments on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e1996	All first: With regard to the process, the EU Member States are going to present their action plans until the summer. As non-member countries, we naturally lag behind in that process, because the EEA countries come in after the decisions have been taken first in the EU. In this way, there is nothing special about the time use of Norway at all. The process has been quite parallel to the process in other countries; we only have a phased shift in relation to EU countries. So the representative Solvik-Olsen spent time on a reasoning that has also been present before, to say it carefully, that everything would have been solved if we had just presented an energy message to the Stortinget. With regard to the problems that have been addressed, I can comment on them as follows: It has been a problem, and is a problem, with bad networks. We're doing something about that in the plans that are now at Statnett. There has been a problem with poor procedural capacity. We're doing something about access to resources at NVE. It's been, and is, a problem, a challenge, with a certificate market that's not there. We're doing something about that, by having Maud Olofsson and I negotiate what we've done. There has been a problem that there has been too little money to invest in renewable energy in Norway under previous governments. We've done something about that, because we've put a lot more money into Enova and that's how we got more projects out of it. I believe that the whole point in terms of the energy sector is to ensure that policies are improved in areas where policy is not good enough. That's what we're doing. I also believe that the contrast to what other governments before us have done is striking. So the representative picks up two questions. One goes on power consumption in the future in Norway and the Nordic countries. I think we can quickly agree that there are some parameters, some factors, that we should be careful to conclude on the basis of. We see in Norway that large and desired industrial start-ups contribute to significant growth in electricity consumption. This is something we want to do — environmentally friendly, good industrial development in Norway. If we get more forward from what we've seen especially in Middle Norway in the last decade, it will contribute to increased power consumption. On the other hand, I believe what we see through Enova's work on energy efficiency is helping to bring down the power consumption, so that the electricity consumption per unit produced in the Nordic region is convinced that we are going to bring it down in the future. So I don't think any of us are able to conclude as to how many units, how much production we want in Norway and the Nordic countries, especially in industry, in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2009	Norway is already a major nation in renewable energy, but we have ambitions to grow even larger. The Renewables Directive, adopted by the EU in April 2009, provides binding targets for both the renewable share of final consumption of energy and renewable energy in transport. The Directive provides for a binding EU target of 20 pst. renewable share of energy consumption and 10 pst. renewable share of total EU fuel consumption in 2020. This Directive has been considered relevant for Norway as a result of the EEA Agreement and is consequently to be implemented as part of our overall energy policy. How the directive will affect Norway in detail is too early to be able to say anything about it at this stage, but I am very pleased that the Government is working well on precisely these details. However, it is worth noting the following before going further in this debate: We in Norway were a major act in the field of renewable energy already before this directive saw the light of day. While the EU's renewable share was about 8,5 pst. on average in 2005, our renewable share was 58,5 pst. In other words, it is a totally different starting point for us compared to the EU countries. We have an electricity sector that is almost 100 pst. This is not the case in most other countries. With a renewable share of 58,5 pst. initially, we are already very much above the EU target of 20 pst. renewable share. However, the Directive is about cooperating at European level on the joint deployment of more renewable energy. Good cooperation requires that everyone contributes – and we have a lot to contribute! In the spirit of cooperation, there is also great flexibility in the Directive, which opens up cooperation with other countries in order to achieve its objectives. This Directive opens up the application of both national measures and measures to achieve the national objectives. This provides opportunities for extended European project cooperation both between EU and EEA countries and with so-called third countries bordering the EU internal energy market. It thus opens up different forms of green cross-border certification systems. It is possible to cooperate on each development project or to establish more systematic markets, as in Sweden. Further work on the Directive must therefore be seen in the context of ongoing work on the creation of a common green electricity licence market with Sweden. For the red-green parts, great but also realistic ambitions for energy development are important. In recent years, we have invested huge resources and billions of dollars in renewable energy, because there has been a marked change in pace in this policy area since the government shift in the autumn of 2005. Let me just briefly remind you of the following, to illustrate this: We have spent over 7 billion kroner on renewable energy through Enova since 2006 and up to now. We have set up an energy fund that is now up to DKK 25 billion, where the return goes exclusively to Enova's work in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. The government has committed Enova, through a new agreement with Enova, to deliver energy results of 18 TWh, and one sees that one is on a very good path to achieve it. As the Council of State had in mind, we have strengthened the NVE considerably, precisely in view of the development of renewable energy. This has led to an almost double concessional capacity of the NVE compared to what it was in 2005. The Government has concluded an intention agreement with Sweden for the establishment of a green certificate market from January 2012. We have a system of energy labelling for construction, which will be mandatory from 1 July this year. In this room we have put in place a law on marine energy that will be a very important framework for the future development of renewable energy at sea. In this context, for example: It is mentioned that in September last year the Council of State participated in the opening of the world's first full-scale floating windmill, located right outside Karmøy, in both my and Ketil Solvik-Olsen's home state, Rogaland. This is a project that would hardly have been possible without co-financing from the public through Enova. These are just a few examples of the great shift in the pace of our nation's energy policy in the field of renewables. In addition to good, natural assumptions, we have a clear and clear willingness to invest in renewable energy. We do not know what the final renewable share for Norway would end up on now, but I and the red-green parties are convinced that we will meet the demands made to Norway in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2055	It is tempting to remind the representative Sund that the problem is not what the government is doing, but what the government is not doing. Norway has drawn lucky lots in nature's lottery. However, it is not enough to draw the winnings; we also need to have a conscious relationship with how we manage the winnings. In a normal year, Norway has a surplus of power. Of course, it is a poor comfort this year, but an important perspective to take into account in the debate on the energy situation of the future in Norway. The Green Certificate Market has been on the right for too long because Norway has natural advantages in the energy sector that can help to realise business opportunities, new green jobs and more climate-friendly power generation in Europe. It's a sin The government doesn't have the power to start work before. If the government finally targets the negotiations with Sweden, the green certificate market will contribute to the realisation of 25 TWh with new renewable energy allocated to Norway and Sweden by 2020. In addition, there must be hope that the Government will in the long term be able to achieve energy efficiency improvement objectives and measures. Norway is per year. Today, the only country in Europe that does not have clear objectives and plans for energy efficiency improvement, despite the fact that the most environmentally friendly energy is the one that is not being used. If we succeed in realising large parts of our overall potential for energy conversion, energy efficiency improvement and new renewable energy production on the mainland, this will result in Norway having significant excess power in the future. However, the prerequisite for success is that we are able to expand the transfer capacity to the rest of the world. If we do not expand capacity, subsidising new renewable energy will lead to falling energy prices in the long term and thus weakened incentives to expand new power and to streamline energy use. One measure can thus turn the other upside down. Another prerequisite is that Europe actually needs the surplus energy we want to offer in a normal year. The latest reports from Brussels suggest that most EU countries will be able to meet the requirements of the renewable directive through national measures. The need for Norwegian power will thus be limited. Can the Council of State confirm that it is also his impression, or is he with other information that he can thus share with us in this room? There are many dilemmas in energy policy that will be difficult to balance in the future and that the Council of State should set out. How much new power do we have to provide for in addition to what we can expect to need at home, if it's right that we won't get a provision for it out there? How will the Council of State ensure that sufficient capacity is deployed in the transmission network to the rest of the world? How much, and to what extent, will the Norwegian authorities indirectly subsidise power consumption in other European countries? Although we are expanding the electricity link to the rest of the world, there is no doubt that there will be a need for more Norwegian power, and perhaps much of the new Norwegian renewable energy production will be unregulatable. How will the Council of State contribute to the Norwegian regulatory power playing an important and profitable role in the cohesion of European wind power generation? It is possible that questions are better addressed to the EU than to the Council of State. In the EU, the debate on the renewable directive started in 2006. It's been four years. At that time, EU countries had an open public debate at national level on objectives, instruments, burden-sharing and funding. Following a thorough process, the Directive was nailed to the December 2008 summit. Nevertheless, we know nothing about how the directive will affect Norway, and the debate that has to take place on this issue is taking place in closed rooms in Brussels, not in open spaces like this. In Norway, we still have a seminar on how to implement the climate agreement, on which cables to build, and on how much new renewable energy to build. The government has even found out that there is no urgency in saving the world anyway – and has postponed the climate announcement until 2011. In the EU, however, talk has been translated into action. Today we are discussing, as we usually do in EU cases, a directive that has already been adopted. No one spoke Norway's case and Norwegian interest in Brussels as the case was pending. No premium is received to estimate that it is more difficult to obtain an impact on Norwegian positions once the Directive has been adopted than when all positions are in play. It is increasingly clear that the EU is more than a regional association of Member States, more than foreign policy. The EU is a domestic policy. The EU has become a level of government, unfortunately raised above the influence and reach of this house. Norway's negotiations with the EU take place in the closed rooms, with the Commission on the other side of the table. Norwegian actors interested in the interpretation of the Directive travel to Brussels when discussing Norway's overall renewable energy policy, not to Stortinget. Many complain that the EU is suffering from a democratic deficit. The real deficit is in Norway's relationship with the European Union. Does the Council agree that the EU plays a major role in Norway, although Norway does not play a major role in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2092	As part of its climate policy, the EU has seen concrete objectives related to both emissions reduction, energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy production. The Renewables Directive is a concreteisation of these objectives by imposing a certain amount of renewable energy on individual countries in the energy mix. The different countries have different objectives, and they want different methods of meeting their obligations. The Centre Party is an opponent of Norwegian EU membership. Nevertheless, we are pleased with the work that the EU has seen in terms of climate and energy, simply because the climate challenges are global, and we share the idea that the rich part of the world must contribute to climate change by cutting both outdoors and at home. Energy and climate are closely interlinked, as the majority of emissions are related to the production and use of energy. We know that we are forced to move from the fossil to the renewable energy community, and that that transition must take place quickly if we are to achieve the goals recommended by the United Nations Panel on Climate Change and the rest of the world. The Renewables Directive is important because many EU countries will now intensify their climate action as a result of the Directive. The Directive is EEA-relevant, and thus it is natural that this has implications for Norwegian energy policy as well. From the centre party's side, we have long been looking for a commitment to renewable energy, so we are not any opponents of the objective of this directive. Increasing Norwegian renewable energy production will be one of the measures that we can take to increase the renewable share of our energy mix. It will not only contribute to global climate change, but it will also be a good industrial policy. We have an enormous potential in renewable energy, and it is important and right to use the natural resources we have to produce more renewable energy. Here the Government is doing well, and we will continue to work on increasing renewable energy production. And then the interpellant has an important point, that the development of renewable energy cannot be done in a bubble, but must be seen in a cluster of infrastructure, networks and markets. The fact that the power of electricity, the new power of electricity, comes out where it's going to be used, is absolutely crucial. Of course, short-range power is preferable. We must aim to exploit and further refine much of the energy we produce, but at the same time we must have the opportunity to have a surplus power market and also bring power into areas that today do not have the security of supply that they will have. Here, the Council of State highlighted concrete projects that are very important for Norway – not only to ensure energy supply, but also to ensure renewable production. And the fact that it is a market for the power produced is also crucial to ensure long-term, good framework conditions for renewable energy production. The important efforts being made through Enova and by establishing a green certificate market will lead to more renewable energy production and more green jobs around our country. It's important and right of Norway as an energy nation to promote. And so it is that the Right, from this pulpit, is once again trying to give the impression that there is a standstill in Norway, while it is in the EU it is happening. It's not like that. I'd like to say that we made a step further than having the same lesson up again, that nothing happens with renewable energy production in Norway. Mass happens, and those who haven't got it, have to get out of this house, out of this house, and observe a little what's happening, both on water, on bio and before other forms of renewable energy production around our country. But then I will agree with the representative of Astrup on one point: the EU is more than foreign policy. Yeah, sure. Some of us have long claimed that the EU is far more than foreign policy. The EU is a Union, and the renewable directive – although the intentions are good – also shows that a imposition of obligations on Member States through the EU system to which countries must adhere. The EEA Agreement imposes the same obligations on us, and therefore there is reason to consider... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2109	The number is 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2112	It's an exciting interpellation by Solvik-Olsen's representative, not only is it exciting, but it's also an important interpellation with many perspectives. In Norway, we have been good managers of the large water resources that our country has. Our common water resources have built our country in many ways, both through a scattered settlement across the country and through powerful industries, which are important cornerstones of many municipalities. This powerful industry requires water resources and lies there precisely because of water resources — just to mention two examples. The EU has set ambitious targets of 20 pst. renewable energy by 2020, and 20 pst. energy efficiency improvement by 2020. EU objectives have helped to increase the focus on both renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement. This focus, which the EU has helped us increase, has been important. Former oil and energy minister Åslaug Haga said at a press conference here in December 2007 that the requirements of the Left, Christian People's Party and Right regarding the EU's renewable directive were the direct reason why the government would now reopen negotiations with Sweden on green certificates, a scheme that – for uncertain reasons still – the same government had scrapped two years earlier. However, at least then, in December 2007, the EU renewable directive was used as a direct reason to enter into negotiations on a green certificate market with the Swedes. This was, as I said, a demand from the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, and we can also lean on the European Union to get our policy through. The fundamental position of the Christian People's Party on this issue is that we should use our water and wind resources in a sustainable way in the country, but also in a splinter layer with Europe, given that we have a small world. We need to work together to address the climate change that we see, and then renewable energy is an important contribution. At the same time, it is very important that we focus on energy efficiency improvement. This is a fight that we never engage in, but this is a fight that leads to concrete actions, and that also leads to attitude changes. So to the question raised by the interpellant: How much is Norway going to do in the EU in the fissure layer to which the renewable directive refers? There was no response from the State Council. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that we need to look at this in relation to the renewable resources we have in the country, and we need to deliver what the European Union expects of us. I am very pleased that the representative of the Workers' Party, Eirin Kristin Sund, was more specific on this than the Council of State itself was. I think I can quote the representative of Health as follows: we are going to meet the expectations of the European Union towards Norway. That was the last sentence of the representative. I think it's right, even if she was on her way down from the pulpit. He said that they are at the heart of the work on the Renewables Directive, and that therefore he cannot respond to the interpellant. They need more time, they're now spending time finding background material and building up facts. The Council of State also stressed that he wanted to inform the Storting before final decisions were taken. The Council of State also said that the action plans for the various European countries will be ready in mid-2010. Then this hall must be able to understand the council that the Storting will be informed early in the autumn of 2010 about how the Government views this important issue, so that we get that briefing in time, before the Government takes the final decision in this room, as the Council of State said in its intervention to the inter-pellant that the Storting would be made aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2133	I'm glad that many people think this has been an important debate. At the same time, however, I note that the debate has not brought forward any new information or assessments that had not already been received from the Government or by reading the newspapers. That's what I think is very sad, because that means that all the assessments that happen politically will still take place in closed rooms. The size will have no real influence. We know then that when we get a statement to be consulted, it will happen with a unanimous support from the red-green parties, no matter what is presented, based on the history we have in this magnificence. This is a matter that more than any other matter will preface Norwegian energy policy for many years to come, across different governments. That is exactly why I had hoped, frankly, that the Storting would have more influence and say more about this matter than we have. Norway has a lot of resources. The question is how we develop them in the best possible way, in a sound and profitable way. The dimensions of costs, the time horizons of projects, the energy volume, the relationship between production and consumption, export and import opportunities need to be understood, and a good balance must be found between the different objectives we set and the instruments we use. When I hear some red-green politicians, it seems that there is a lot of joy and fun here – as if the alternative to what the red-greens have done had been a vacuum for four and a half years where nothing had happened. The problem is not that the red-green government has done many things against the opposition’s votes – rather the opposite. The problem is that very much of what everyone thought would happen has been exposed, or has started too late. An example is green certificates. So when the government boasts that this is going to happen in 2012, it's six years later than they all did in 2004. Of course, everyone is happy that it will come in 2012 – it is better than nothing. But there's still a fact in the history that things don't happen any faster than it would otherwise have happened, it happens later. I mentioned Alexandra Bech Gjørv from Statoil in my main post. I can also mention Trond Ryslett from the Small Forces Association, which says that the small power industry now, as Alexandra refers to, invests in spite of the government's policy, not because of it. The same is true in the last Technical Weekleaf, where Norwegian Bioenergy Association says that they are pleased that the climate cure outlines major bioenergy targets. They are happy that the government has numerically fixed a target of 14 TWh bioenergy, but there are no instruments here that in any way oblige. That's the issue. If a few want to do this, there has to be trust between industries and authorities that things happen. Then, as a rule, the authorities must be out before things happen, and it must not be the case, as we have seen in recent years, that a promise that the framework conditions will come into place will not happen, and then trust will be broken. To the last example of the Council of State came, that this government is beginning to build up networks that the previous government did not: I challenge the Government to provide an overview of how many projects have been launched by Statnett since this government took over, and how much capital this government has come to Statnett to do so. The answer is well, away from zero!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2147	First of all, I think, in general, that the representative Solvik-Olsen should distinguish between the Storting minority and the Stortinge when he talks about different situations in his posts. To address the substance of the issues raised: The representative Astrup had a question to me about Europe as a maritime region in terms of renewable energy. My answer is that there I think we will have a somewhat better level of precision when the action plans are available. There aren't so many months to it. I don't think I'm going to wonder any more about it now, but that there are plans for a significant deployment of renewable energy is absolutely undeniably. On the question of Europe as such is going to be an area of increased production, the answer to that is yes, and then we are a few months away from having a closer look at it. Then ask the representative whether I agree that the European Union has a major role to play in Norway. As our biggest and most important neighbour, it is clear that the EU is doing so. As a result of the EEA Agreement, it is maritime that the EU is important for Norway. Then it is also the case in this case that we now have a good process with the EU to find a solution that is good for Norway. Norway has no significant influence over the process in Italy or Spain, but I do not think so, for example. Denmark has all the world's influence. The representative Solvik-Olsen mentions some sectors where he would like a more offensive policy from the Government. Just to address the last issue, which is a new topic that was raised by the representative of Solvik-Olsen in the debate today, namely bioenergy: what I think is a good example of how the polarized debate can be done, when Solvik-Olsen says that nothing has been done, nothing is happening on bioenergy. At the same time, he says that the most important requirement that the bioenergy people in Norway have made was to remove the so-called detachment regulation that has contributed to a rather distorted competitive relationship between the bio industry and the other energy industry. It's now on its way out. We have now developed an infrastructure for heat, which leads to the bio industry having a market to sell its products to. It wasn't there for any years ago. There is a small revolution in relation to the bio industry, and Solvik-Olsen is also aware that the government has gone into tile support to provide more profitable processes in the forest. This is another example of a lot of good happening in the energy industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2160	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2166	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2173	During the debate, Rigmor Andersen Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is actively asking for the full-time and rented state companies not to establish themselves in tax havens.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2195	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2202	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive package of measures during 2010 to reduce and combat child poverty. The work on such a package of measures should be carried out in close dialogue with all the parties on the Stortinget.’» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2230	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6 and 7, by Kjell Ingolf Roppstad on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8-11, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 12 and 13 from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-11 is included on page 8 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 12 and 13 are distributed in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the left. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Government asks the Government to amend the regulation on parental payment in kindergarten and activity school/SFO so that low-income dependants are to pay the rate of the maximum residence payment’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2273	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2303	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to confirm that child welfare and cash support are excluded from the measurement of social assistance.’ The left has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2320	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2346	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a minimum State standard for social assistance rates in order to ensure a level playing field across the country.’ The left has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2363	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2417	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the spring of 2010, the government is asked to present the necessary legislative changes to ensure that non-nationals who come to Norway and commit serious criminal offences do not become members of the population under restitution.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2443	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2549	It's going to wrestle over you. The Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party has announced that it will come as proposal No. 2 has fallen, they will provide subsidiary support § 12-10 new second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2561	Alternatively, between the Committee's setting up Section 6-5 and Section 9-11 and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2594	The Committee's position on the first paragraph of Paragraphs 9 to 12 and III shall then be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2605	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2615	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2656	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2666	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-19.ana.ud901e2697	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
