ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e105	The representatives Erna Solberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Heikki Holmås, and Dagfinn Høybräten, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Táldal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e122	I would like to promote a proposal by the representatives of Mr Harald T. Nesvik, Mr. Per Roar Bredvold, Mr. Jørund Rytman and signed to remove the duty on imports of meat from 6 December to 31 December. Then I would like to ask that Section 28c of the Rules of Procedure be used to deal with the matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e129	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e132	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e137	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e140	I am delighted to present a proposal from Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Dagfinn Høybräten, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself to shut down the regional health companies and immediately freeze all the conversion processes in the local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e145	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e161	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and members of the Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It will also be suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e172	This has been a good week for Norwegian school. In contrast to our two neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, the PISA survey has given us a pat on our shoulders and an experience that we, as a school nation, are on the right track. The trend is reversed, the arrows are pointing up. The students learn more, and the quality gets better. It is natural to start this year's budget debate with just this. What does this tell us? That hard work and targeted effort over time benefit. Proper road choices and systematic work have produced results. Then all of us who have influence in Norwegian school still have to work hard. But we're on the right track, as the researchers who did the investigation themselves say. It gives the school confidence and belief that you work properly. It itself is a source of new energy. The hope is that we will see even more signs of progress in the coming time. I think that will happen. The results of the 2009 PISA study, I don't want to spend any more time here. It's known to most people already. On the other hand, I want to go into why it is, as the Labour Party sees it. As in other schools, targeted efforts based on knowledge work. We're not experimenting with school. The right-hand side will have more competition, privatisation and ranking of students, schools and teachers. The Party of Progress and the Right is positive for leveling and skill breakdown. This warns researchers, teachers, school leaders and students against this. The OECD own assessment of the PISA survey for all countries highlights the Nordic school model because we have avoided segregation, leveling and excessive individualisation. In my opinion, this is a strong support for the primary school. Both in Sweden and Denmark, privatisation has slowed down in recent years. They're for good reason less satisfied with the results than we are. In particular, Sweden has reason to reconsider its school policy. The civil privatisation wave has led to increased differences, but at least equally important — it has collectively led to a poorer school. In many ways, we can stand together on the promise of knowledge. It was an Labour Party minister who put down the Sägnen Committee and made many of the important premises for the Knowledge Lift. It was Right-Minister Kristin Clemet who presented the matter in the Stortinge under the Bondevik II government. It was an SV minister who launched the reform. We agree on target management and not detail management. We still want a strong commitment to basic skills and to strengthen everything that makes the teacher better able to succeed. In the budget, we also see a commitment to this. This autumn we launched the reform of teacher training. It will give primary school teachers a higher and more specialised competence for the years and in the subjects they will teach. In the budget, we improve the funding for this education by spending over 100 million. kr more than today for general teacher training. This is a historic promise to enable the universities to follow up the requirements of the new framework plan. Furthermore, there is broad agreement that the further competence of teachers should be ensured through a permanent system of continuing training. Since 2006, almost two billion have been allocated. NOK to this. When the school owner grants the equivalent amount, we're up to $3.85 billion. kr. The Council of State is well aware of the concern in Stortinget that too many places are empty of the places that the state has bought at colleges and universities, while we know that there are a number of teachers in many municipalities who want to take more education but who don't get it. We have a challenge in finding a model that makes continuing education work the way we all want it. But it's becoming an important point that the school owner, i.e. the municipalities, must look after it and the ability to employ well-qualified temporary workers when other teachers are under education. But it's the municipalities that decide this. I want to focus on Oslo, which is cutting the offer of continuing education, which removes the municipal grant scheme, and which spends less money on what is provided for in the split between the state, the municipality and the teachers. It's worth noting for the citizens in the hall. The main objective of the budget is to combat non-response. As we all know, it is essential that basic skills are in place when young people come to high school. Then it has to be focused on. In this year's budget, there are now 425 million. kr in measures to increase the implementation of secondary education. The biggest promise in higher education is 2,200 new places of study. But as the most important thing, I'm going to bring out the $14 million. to support the breathing support of disabled students. This group will receive a scholarship 12 months a year through the year. It's a smaller amount, and it doesn't apply to many. But this decision gives even greater power to the slogan ‘equal to the right to education’. It is well documented that this group experiences greater barriers than others when they want to study. At the same time, lower education than the average and greater problems in the labour market. I am sincerely pleased that in this budget we are raising education for this particular group. I want to be honest in my mention of the research budget. It is a good budget, but it is not a huge increase. This year’s budget is marked by less oil money consumption than before, and it also appears in the research budget. However, along with changes in exchange rates in international quotas, changes in construction in the university and higher education sectors, as well as cuts in research on budgets other than those in this Committee, appropriations have been made for which the sector itself does not rejoice. But I would like to remind you that the appropriations for research and development have increased by 50 pst. from 2005 to 2011, from EUR 15,5 billion. NOK 24.3 billion. kr. This corresponds to a real growth of 27 pst. We have more than doubled the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund. Compared to other countries, public efforts are very good and at a level that puts us at the top of the Nordic region. In a tight research budget, it is therefore good that we have put some targeted bets in place. We're going to get 60 million. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's been a long time since we've had a church budget as good as this year. Appropriations for the Church will increase by 158 million. kr. We have invested money for several performances. We grant more for the training of faith, so that this phase is part of the joint councils of more and more municipalities. And we're giving money to the church election to secure democracy in the Church. Finally. Norway is a good country to live in. Many politicians, including in our nearest neighbouring country, envy our position. In many European countries, people march in the streets at these times, led by students such as protests against a sharp increase in tuition fees. It shows that we should be careful to do something with them, which some parties sometimes suggest and sometimes snore about. The words of the Norwegian economy are important to secure enough money for good purposes in society. This budget thus delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e209	The representative Marianne Aasen highlighted the importance of targeted action and focused on basic school skills. The representative also referred to the results of PISA. They show that 21 pst. by the boys in school cannot read and write well enough. My question to the representative of Aasen is therefore: how can the government's removal of support for dyslexics be linked to the strategy for increasing basic skills and competences in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e214	I think it is very good that the Progress Party addresses this with boys and problems in terms of reading. For it is a problem in Norway, as in many other countries that have participated in the PISA survey, that boys read much less, they read less, and they have less understanding of reading than girls. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are fewer overall — many fewer students, in fact — who read worse in this survey than in 2006. That also applies to boys. Equally full, it's worrying, and we have to have extra bet on this group. In the case of dyslexics, they have not received less support. Municipalities have the same obligation to provide aids and ensure dyslexics with good education, as before. But there's been a change in Nav's budget on this, so now there's the municipalities that are going to fund extra support for computers, while it was before Nav that did.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e221	On his blog the other day, Marianne Aasen wrote, among others. the following: ‘I’m proud that the students of the last PISA survey have had Ap-regiering in six of their 10 school years. Hopefully today's news has put a final stop to the black coloring of the common school on the right.» Then is my question to the representative of Aasen: is it to be understood that the representative of Aasen and the Workers' Party will now remain silent in the whole of the Norwegian student results of PISA 2009, which continues to show alarmingly many weak readers, fewer good readers, and alarmingly few students at the highest levels of mathematics and science, which are completely critical competence for Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e231	Not at all! And I allow myself to take a sentence in English in this room, for I believe that the slogan we should use for Norwegian school now is: Keep up the good work! I mean, we're doing a lot of good. We're doing more right now in Norwegian school than we did in 2006. The previous bourgeois government raised major concerns in the Norwegian school with threats of much privatisation, major conflicts with teachers on the implementation of national tests, more focus on the leveling of levels and more stress on the performance of teachers. That way the Workers' Party will not go. I think the primary school is what we're going to bet on. I want us to talk the school up, we're not going to talk it down. But we have a long way to go, with the high ambitions of the Workers' Party, and I'd say the Right too, has for Norwegian school. We're all going to do better. Not least, we're going to lift those who struggle with reading, as the Progress Party took up in the previous line, but we're also going to lift the most brilliant ones. The entire Norwegian school will continue to be lifted, and we're going to use the PISA study for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e238	I think there's a lot of teachers and it's kind of weird that the Workers' Party and the government are trying to take credit for these results. Because in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the PISA results are a result of hard work from many teachers in school to get this done. One of the things that the representative Aasen has been dealing with as one of the major instruments in Norwegian school has been the hourly increase. She has defended it hotly and clearly that the hours that have come are just on the way to what she calls a whole school day, but that is really a whole day school. Many times it's about having a concrete goal. My question to the representative of Aasen is: how many hours does such an entire full-time school contain as the representative of Aasen want? And how many increased hours are there going to come from this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e247	The working party is for a whole school day – that’s absolutely right, and I stand for that. But we don't have any plans that I can advertise from this pulpit, beyond what's in next year's budget, which we're going to adopt today. I want to say that increased hours in the most important subjects such as Norwegian, math and English, supplemented by common school meals, physical activity and homework, have been completed in some experimental schools. SINTEF evaluated that project, and researcher Brita Bungum found that students, teachers and parents are satisfied. This is a story of success. A similar experiment was done in Oslo, and they had better results than the reference schools. I believe that the whole day of school gives a boost to Norwegian school, and I also believe that the representative Dagrun Eriksen has a problem with his partner Right, who is closer to us for hours than the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e256	I thought I'd say a little about something that I and the representative of Aasen are in complete agreement, that it was very sad for Norwegian school policy when many municipalities chose a two-level model, so that it wasn't the principals who were going to be bureaucrats, but that the principals became more municipal bureaucrats than pedagogical leaders in the knowledge company that a school is. If we're going to be able to get back to where we're again getting a school administration in the municipality that takes care of the circulars, while the principals take care of the guidance and the pedagogics, I think we might need bigger municipalities. So my question to the representative of Aasen is then whether she thinks she can do it with the Central Party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e264	I have previously expressed a positive opinion on municipal mergers, but it is not stated that we will use coercion in terms of municipal mergers, neither in the programme of the Workers' Party nor in the Soria Moria declaration. So it's not relevant in the current magnification period. I am strongly in favour of strengthening the competence of municipalities. I believe there are too few municipalities working together – there are only 4 pst. working together in the field of school. I am strongly attached to the fact that, in the case of school, the municipal administration of small municipalities needs professional competence. And I'm a strong supporter of the fact that the municipalities that want to do this come together to get a better offer for the students. So in relation to the goal, namely to get more robust municipalities, I am willing to think quite strongly that many municipalities should look much more closely at this, just to improve the offer to their own inhabitants. But I'm not willing to use coercion in this period of accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e271	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e274	I also want to start with PISA. The PISA study shows that the Knowledge Lift is in the process of being effective. It shows that the focus on skills objectives, the measurement of the results of schools, is effective. I think a little bit of the reason we're getting there is that we have the same reality in the sector and in the political parties more today than before. I've said before that in Norwegian school it happened little from the 1930s to the 1970s. Then a progressive reformer started, and in the 1990s this reformer turned into full bloom – and we reformed as blind chickens both on the right and on the left. The 2000s have given us much more knowledge of the school. We are getting more and more knowledge because of research into pedagogy and school — international research and Norwegian research — and we have international comparative studies such as this. PISA, in addition to national tests. The level of knowledge has risen, and it gives us a common platform to discuss the school. It's important. PISA also shows that the bet on reading has worked. It shows that the quality of the teacher in Norwegian school is of great importance, it shows that it is important that we at Stortinget focus on the further development of teacher training, but it also shows that the municipalities and the state have to work together hard on the further and further training of teachers. It is clear that the municipalities must take their share of responsibility there, but I believe – and this is also reflected in the budget of the Progress Party – that the State must take greater responsibility. This, of course, is also about giving local authorities room for action in order to take these measures through a strengthened local economy. But the most enjoyable thing about PISA is that the whole left-hand side now embraces the results and emphasizes that results and measurement of results in school are important. It was almost obvious before SV – and in part also the Workers' Party – came into government in 2005. But I also find cause for concern, because it was violent for champagne spreading two days ago, when the results came. I would rather characterize it as PISA shows that we are running the stack after the first exchange, but that we are far from in the goal. There's a progress in reading, a very happy progress in reading, but it's still the way one of five guys can't read well enough to understand a subject text. Reading skills are fundamental to any other learning you are going through later in life. Then someone claims that PISA doesn't say everything about Norwegian school. That's possible, and that's true, too. But for those guys, one in five, who can't read, the PISAs say everything we need to know. But the bet has worked. Now we have to make sure that the boys also get the promise that the girls in particular have received. In this way, the stimulation of literacy for boys is crucial. This promise must be made at school, it must be done by the teachers, it must be done by the national politicians and, not least, it must be done by the families. We have to assume that boys and girls are not stimulated by the same literature. The need to stimulate boys' reading ability is also no new phenomenon. On that occasion I find it appropriate to quote Bjørnstar Bjørnson, who wrote in the poem «Old Heltberg»: «The same books, the same self-same thoughts The comrades ate; but I lost the appetite And as long as the diet was wasted, until I was finally rid of it. So the school curriculum didn't appeal to Bjørnson. But Bjørnson was fortunately stimulated to read. Some of the reasons are found in the same poem, where Bjørnson writes: "we had to go there until we grew up. I went there, but I read Snorre." It was Snorre who aroused the readership of Bjørnson. Now it's our task together to find out what stimulates the literacy of Norwegian boys today. I might have to ask myself something questioning whether Snorre is the answer for all Norwegian guys, but at least it is the key to solving this important job for us, to get more boys well literate. In real science and mathematics, we're on the OECD average. Between 10 pst. and 6 pst. by our students, the top level in the category of natural sciences. I think the State Council Halvorsen often talks about something very important, and that is that human capital amounts to 73 pst. of national wealth, the oil industry only 15 pst. Nevertheless, it is important to remember that oil and gas revenues are an important reason why we are cutting as well as we are doing on other things in the OECD, for example. well-being and prosperity. This has been an important contributor to oil, for example. because then we found the oil, put hard on real science skills to get as much back for the hydrocarbons we found in the North Sea. Now that you know that we're going to create a new economy in Norway, and that we have to create a knowledge-based economy in Norway in the near future, I'm a little surprised at this jubilee over the OECD average. I wonder which Minister of Labour, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance, or, for that matter, any minister, who would have rejoiced if Norway were at an average OECD level in terms of welfare and prosperity. If we cut these parameters as well as Poland and thought it was good, I would have wondered. I doubt that these councils had been re-elected. Clearly, with a knowledge-based economy capable of maintaining well-being and prosperity, the average level in the OECD is not good enough. Now we agree that bets on reading have had an effect. Now it's time for the real subjects to get their ups and downs. We are totally dependent on this to maintain the level of well-being in Norway. Then it's like these somewhat mediocre results in real high school, or throughout primary education, also get effect further up the system. Engineering competence is essential for the Norwegian economy, and it is essential for the technical services in Norwegian municipalities. We now see a major decline in higher education on the technology side, which is partly caused by weak results from basic education, but also clearly from internal conditions in higher education. These include: caused by the terrible cost of engineering training, and it is not reflected in the government financing model. I am very pleased that the government has now put forward a proposal in today's budget to strengthen the financing of teacher training. I think that's a very important and proper grip. I'm worried that you don't do the same for the engineers. Technological competence is fundamental to us, and so the Progress Party proposes in the budget for next year to give engineers the same promise that the teachers have received. I think it's necessary to keep the good skills we have in that field. But it does not get a majority today. So for research. Now everyone will understand that there are tougher this year than it has been for the red-green government before. I still think it's a little ambitious what we're going to adopt today. But the big problem is not in 2011. The major problem is that lower returns on the Research Fund will create major challenges in 2012. That's why I find it sad that the government is not spending more money on the Research Fund this year, so you could have avoided the big cut that will come in 2012. But the government is warned about this. I can't exactly say that I look forward to the debate next year, but hope that we can jointly ensure that the pressure on research is maintained in 2012. The current budget does not provide a basis for this. So, President, time's up. I had the pleasure to hear also the debate of the Finance Committee, where I think it was one of the Councils who said that this is a budget for the weakest. The Labour Party is going to vote for everyone to join. Clearly, this does not apply to children in children’s homes who are in higher education in Norway. There are 90 students in higher education in Norway who are orphans or in the care of child protection. It would have cost $5 million. to provide these students with support for their studies. That's not for the red-green government to do. Then I think the slogans of the red-green government are going to be a bit hollow. With that, I am promoting the proposals that the Progress Party has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e332	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e337	Tuesday this week, we received the results of the PISA survey, which shows marked progress for Norwegian school. The report draws up, inter alia: countries where there are equal opportunities for schooling for all students are countries that do well — that the common school system with cohesive classes with low segregation is the best starting point for raising both good pupils and those at the bottom. These are the characteristics of the Nordic model: equal opportunities for all. Finland is clearly making the most of the Nordic countries, with the most coherent and coherent school system. Sweden has downward results. The Swedish school system provides possible explanations: the pupil composition has become more homogeneous between schools and different groups of students has become more differentiated according to the needs of the student This does not affect the student’s results in a positive direction. The party of progress has previously promoted the last two as good instruments in school. Does the Progress Party still believe that we should follow Sweden downwards, or should we continue to rise towards Finland, as the red-green government does?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e364	I note that the red-green side is still cheering that in one field we have passed the average in the OECD and in two other fields are on average in the OECD. You just have to take note of that. I hope it doesn't say anything about the level of ambition of the red-green government for the school in time to come. Then I want to be crystal clear on one thing: there's no doubt that our most important role, whether you belong to the left side or to the right side, is to strengthen the public school. I'm crystal clear on that. That's the most important thing we can do together. But then I don't quite have the huge ideological skyscrapers that someone on the left has, and I think there must be room for a private supplement too. I think, for example, that private supplements, actors towards public schools, can make an important contribution to increasing the level 5 and level 6 share that, in my view, is alarmingly low in the PISA survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e371	In a budget debate, it is often as interesting to look at proposals for cuts as looking at proposals for additions, especially when it comes from the opposition. It is, of course, easier from the opposition site to propose additions. When we look at the cuts, a maybe a little bit more reveals what kind of knowledge you have as a political party. I think the Progress Party here is doing that in a somewhat frustrating way. I am not surprised that the Progress Party will continue to weaken the teaching of Sami people and will continue to weaken the teaching of asylum seekers and young people for asylum seekers. It doesn't surprise me. If Tord Lien wants to comment on it, it's fine. What surprises me anyway is that the Progress Party will continue to weaken adult education. It's so important in our society to help adults get back into the training system. Clearly, the Progress Party is not interested in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e380	The representative Aksel Hagen draws some conclusions for which there is no basis. The first line change today was about dyslexics. Then it was quite obvious to the red-green government that it made sense that the municipalities were responsible for these. Then I think that the same should apply to ethnic minorities, like, for example. the indigenous peoples on which the representative was involved. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, it is true that the Progress Party has a different policy throughout the asylum field. We assume that our policy could have given some other number of students who would need this type of education. Then it is important to remember that the Progress Party also has a number of more offensive municipal budgets, which will enable the municipalities to solve these problems themselves. As far as adult education is concerned, there has been a broad political consensus, as I understand it, that more attention should be paid to the reading and knowledge that can be used in the workplace. We know that a good part of adult education goes to things that can't be very closely linked to working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e391	One of the best things about the budget in this sector is that it provides that higher education can be taken independently of the wallet and physical assumptions. It shows the commitment to interaction, the absence of student payments and the commitment to student housing with a universal design. The Progress Party does not agree. The setting reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, has a clear view that universal design should be planned for future student housing projects and that the Ministry facilitates this.’ The question to the representative Lien is: why does the Progress Party not think that universal design is important?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e401	I don't know if you can use the expression "read the Bible as a Fan" from the pulpit of Storting, but here I think the representative Christensen has read at least part of the setting. We have a note in the setting that is clear that a good part of the student homes to be built must be universally designed. I think the number is 25 pst., which is probably higher than what is happening today. It is such that the universal design of all student cabinets leads to an increase in costs. We know that the need is great, and that the requirement for universal design of all student cabins will lead to fewer student cabins being built. The Progress Party believes that it is important to facilitate that students with these challenges can also have access to organized cabs, of course, but if you demand that all the furniture should be universally designed, there will be fewer hubs than our approach. We believe that this is so important that we need to build as many furniture as possible for the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e410	In his reply to me instead, the representative said that he assumes that this government has the ambition to be on average in the OECD. I can cancel that. This government will, as I said in the post, reach for the best, and one of the best is Finland, which is now pushed down from the first place of Korea. But the OECD also points out that in countries where it is bad, there is competition in schools for students. There is great competition between students and early selection of pupils for performance. This is exactly what I have perceived to be the policy of the Progress Party, and some of what you have stood for in Sweden. My question remains: Does the Advancement Party think that Norwegian school should go in that direction, or should you continue to reach out for the best and learn from what the best do?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e420	I am very pleased that the representative Wickholm is clear that the ambition is not to be on average in the OECD. Of course, it's an ambition that I share completely. So it's also the way that the PISA report shows that within science, that is, natural science, there are 2 psts. by students in Norway at level 6. It's clear that if we're going to draw the Norwegian economy into a knowledge-based petroleum economy, which I think some on the left-hand side are sometimes a little bit busy, we have to get more people who deliver at a high international level. So that's 2 pst. Too bad. Especially for these students, I think it makes sense to have a supplement to the public school. We know that those who are in the other categories, those who are the farthest down and who perform the worst, also benefit from a supplement. But I am clear that it is the public school that needs to be strengthened in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e427	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e430	This week is in the school sign with the publication of the last PISA survey. For Norwegian students, however, today’s budget treatment is probably so important, for it is about how the parties will prioritise school and education in 2011. The results of PISA 2009 were a good portion of encouragement for Norwegian school. After two rounds of setbacks, both in 2003 and 2006, in reading, mathematics and science, we noticed progress this time. The reading skills made a joyful uplift and placed us in second place in the Nordic region after Finland. The decline is reversed to rise also in mathematics and natural sciences, although the progress here is more modest. The results are the major breakthrough in the thinking of the Knowledge Lift and the emphasising of basic skills as crucial building blocks to achieve better results and better learning for students. School reformers are saddened by the fact that the time from reform to reform, often more than a decade, means that it is rarely the Council of State and the government that initiates the reform that can reap the results. Although the 2009 results of PISA show progress, the truth is that we're back where we were after the first round of PISA in 2000. The Minister of Knowledge has quite rightly reminded us that there was a result that sent shock waves to Norwegian school at the time. The right-wing suspicion that Norwegian school was not so good was fully confirmed when we got the first PISA results in 2001. It gave the start to a major turnaround in Norwegian school under the leadership of the then Minister of Education Kristin Clemet from the Right. Norway simply could not live with below-average school outcomes in the OECD while at the top of resource use and teacher density. We could not continue in a track where one in five students left primary school without being able to read and write properly. PISA 2000 formed the recording of the Knowledge Lift. But it is also a fact that the Quality Committee received a new mandate and a new composition in the same harvest. The search light was seriously put on basic skills, several hours in the basic subjects and the importance of skilled teachers. It is raised to doubt that Kristin Clemet, with the big message Culture for Learning, set a new school policy agenda in Norway. It is no exaggeration to say that the introduction of national tests as part of a national quality assurance system for Norwegian schools met with considerable resistance, particularly in SV, which, as late as 2005, was campaigning to cut national samples. I note that there is still a great deal of disagreement about whether there should be transparency about the results. The government's policy of keeping the results of national tests as far as possible away from the public is in the view of the Right, because central information on quality in school is thus kept away from the public and the societal debate. Knowledge of school is a prerequisite for making improvements in school. The coverage of PISA shows great interest, but also great concern for Norwegian school and the fact that students are actually going to learn something in the time they spend at school. The main task of the school is to contribute to good learning. Although the trend in PISA 2009 is positive, there is still reason to pursue the results: improvement in reading, but still many weak readers, and the boys are clearly overrepresented here. We also have fewer readers at the top level. In mathematics and natural sciences, the pattern is much the same, as the representative Tord Lien has also been involved in. Some are struggling heavily, and alarmingly few students claim to be at the very top. Looking ahead, it can lead to a great deal of scarcity of key competences in real science. It's bad news for the country and for the development of the new industries we're going to live on after the oil, all of which are based on heavy real-life skills as a prerequisite. The right has great ambitions for Norwegian school. The goal must be a school of skilled teachers who meet the students with higher expectations and well-adapted training and who are able to compensate for inequalities in their home background. The school must give the daughter of the factory worker and the son of the director equal opportunities to exploit their abilities and talents. The right-hand side can never accept that the students are placed in booths on the basis of background and that the school's ability to contribute to students' learning is almost depreciated. Ten years ago, the Norwegian school was under investigation. We knew most about buildings and toilet conditions, but very little about the quality of school, measured in students' learning outcomes. Fortunately, that's history. Together with PISA, PIRLS, TIMSS, national tests and exam results, we have been given a growing basis for monitoring the development of student performance. The clear emphasis of the raising of knowledge on basic skills, clear professional competences and the freedom of method for teachers has proved robust in the context of subsequent research and studies on the performance of students. In addition, we know that well-qualified teachers are the way to success. Fortunately, the broad lines of the Knowledge Lift were supported by cross-political support. There is therefore reason for optimism on behalf of the school when the Stoltenberg government is now loosing the school, along the path that was trodden up by the previous government. PISA 2009 is a new reminder of the importance of skilled teachers. The differences in results within schools, and between boys and girls, now require full attention from a group of teachers. The right believes that the time is now overdue for a greater commitment and further development of teacher competence to equip teachers even more professionally in meeting the students. The right will therefore introduce the right and obligation of continuing education and give all teachers the opportunity to build their careers. A large majority of teachers state the need for professional replenishment, but with the pace of continuing training today it will take many decades to meet this need. Therefore, the Right believes that the government has a wrong priority when it spends more money on fruit and green and voluntary homework than it does on teachers. The right in its alternative budget has been committed to doing more of what we know works to raise the quality of school. We double the appropriation for teacher competence, and we propose two new hours in childhood to further strengthen initial training. In addition, 100 million is proposed. to help with homework at the youth level, where the need is greater. We are serious about combating high school drop-outs and preventing students from getting hung up on youth. Then we have to make sure that all students learn to read in the first two to three years. Good reading skills are the entrance to good learning in all other subjects. Tribulation is undoubtedly important for learning, but there is nothing to suggest that students would thrive less if they learned more, rather on the contrary. I also refer to the proposal for a roll-call report on increased efforts to combat bullying, which is a major and alarming problem in Norwegian school. The new GIV provides a number of positive measures to reduce the decline in secondary education. The right is impatient, and we find it unsustainable that it will take half a year to get on with the work on a new social contract, and it is also unsustainable that positive measures, such as: School in construction site, now it seems to disappear. So you have to give way to an A4 that doesn't mean a well-adapted arrangement. I also refer to proposals for an obligatory strategy for more apprenticeships in the public sector, and it is urgent, in view of important sectors requiring a high level of labour in the future, inter alia. the health sector and where there are too few apprenticeship places today. The right-wing professional lift has a number of suggestions for better adaptation of training to different subjects and students with different assumptions. Unfortunately for the students, the government parties have voted down most of the proposals. A good school must also meet students with special needs. The level of special education is constantly increasing with increased bureaucracy, more diagnosis and stigmatised students as a result. This is a bad circle that has to be broken. Why is the provision of adapted training not working in the Training Act? These are the questions that the notified Storing Message and the Mid-Lingg Committee report are expected to answer. The right responds to the conclusion in the budgetary procedure of key issues related to the organisation of auxiliaries for pupils with special needs, completely detached from the notification and despite their protests, because they feel that they are not being heard and get part of the process. Loss of state support for dyslexic PC equipment has made everyday life more difficult for these students. There is no longer one door to go in to get a PC and software. Far fewer seems to contact the municipality for such aids. If we don't think that the number of dyslexics has been dramatically reduced overnight, there is now a real danger that many students will not get the help they need in school everyday. The government's cut in PC support is unsocial, and it is completely incomprehensible that a school council from SV can stand up and defend this. A good school is a fundamental prerequisite for providing the country with well-qualified labour in the future. The right will provide the basis for tomorrow’s growth and well-being through a lift for teachers and increased research efforts. The aim must be to enable Norway to cope with Finland within 10 years and match the best countries in the PISA survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e484	As parties, we are in competition between ourselves. We fight about the favor of the voters and want to take credit when things go well, and then we want to blame others when things go bad. It can often be tempting for all parties, let me emphasize it, but I often experience that it rarely seems to be pickers. Rarely do charms on the part of voters. I feel that what the voters are most concerned about is the future. What I see now is that the Progress Party and the Right are doing well in the polls. What I'm asking is what kind of school we get. What I'm not afraid of is we're going to get less focus on reading. Nor am I afraid that we will get less focus on early efforts or some of the things that fortunately, I would say, are broad political consensus. But I'm afraid of what the Right Party and the Advance Party will do in relation to private schools. I'm afraid of what the Right and Advance Party will do in relation to the division into groups after performance. There I would like to point to a report from Sweden, where it is said that the breakdown by level of performance leads to a lower level. Do you go in for it, in the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e491	I am very pleased that I got that question from the representative Marianne Aasen. So the right-hand side doesn't go into that level division, as Marianne Aasen describes it, so you're going to put the students in permanent booths. We have said that the advice that came from the Mathematics Committee is actually something that all politicians should listen to. It is a subject that labors enormously, and it has been suggested that students should be approached with greater differentiation in the class situation. I believe that it is to comply with the provision of the Training Act on adapted training. It is to take that provision seriously and facilitate a teaching that can actually benefit all rivers, and enable them to climb and experience more mastering, professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e496	The right is pleased with the concept of quality and regularly tries to put equality between quality and right school policy. In the view of the Centre Party, the main contribution to the quality of school is to provide municipalities with a financial framework that allows for the local involvement and further development of the school. With that background, it's interesting to read the Right Alternative State Budget, which cuts half a billion in the frame of the county councils. It would have been interesting to hear Mr Aspaker's explanation of the relationship between the boundaries of county municipalities and increased quality in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e503	The clear context is that the cuts made in the county council framework are linked to regional development, where the Right actually proposes redisposals and municipal nutrition funds as a substitute for it. The right has clear, clear priorities in its education budget and within the municipal framework, which says that school is one of the most important tasks to be given priority, whether you are in a state or you are in a municipality. So I can reassure the representative Johannes Rindal and the Central Party that there is no danger of any deterioration in the quality of higher education if the Right should come to power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e510	The representative Aspaker spoke extensively about continuing training in his post. In Oslo, right-handers in the offer of continuing and continuing education. They remove the municipal grant scheme and spend less money than is foreseen in the split layer. What I'm asking is: why is it that right-handedness is on this in Oslo, when the offer of continuing education is so important to the Right central?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e517	If there is a municipality that can really stand being taken as a municipality in the past when it comes to investing in the school, it is precisely the municipality of Oslo. Over the years, there have been systematic, good arrangements for following up school leaders and their teachers, and no municipality has more in-depth than Oslo has monitored student performance and taken action where it is seen to be necessary. I feel very calm that the priorities Oslo is doing, still have one focus on creating a school that will enable all the students in Oslo to actually get the opportunity to reach new professional goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e522	I want to grasp what I took up in my previous line when I talked about performance in Sweden. I would like to ask the representative of Aspaker how she views privatisation, whether she wants to go back to the old private school law, and how the Right will deal with it after what we now see regarding Sweden's experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e528	I think we should listen to what the Swedish Minister of Education has now said in his comments to PISA, that they are making changes in Swedish school. As many people have been involved, we know that reforms take time. I am absolutely sure that the Swedish Minister of Education is now going to look to Norway to see what we are doing, which means that we are on the right track. But it is quite obvious that the law of free school that the previous government initiated is a law of free school that Right believes we can allow ourselves to have in Norway. If it goes 4-5 pst. Norwegian students in hospitals, there is no threat to public schools. On the contrary, we believe it is right that students and parents should be able to make such a choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e535	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e538	In regional policy, a broad distinction is made between small and large policies. The small one is about urban and district policies, about the more concrete objectives and instruments that a user uses there, while the big one is about the big social policy. Then we address road and transport policy, agricultural policy, health policy, etc. The point is that it does not help a driver with tiny things in the small regional policy, if one in the big policy, for example, has a policy that leads to strong centralisation and weakens the districts. When the topic is knowledge policy, it is equally appropriate, I think, to talk about both the small and the big policy, for the school – that is, our entire education system – should reflect society. We are increasingly seeing in the school debate that more and more of us are focusing on the fact that there is a strong dependency between school and society. Both need each other, and both have to play along to succeed in the goals and ambitions you have. In the opinion of the SV, the failure of the right-wing parties in Norway is particularly true with regard to the major knowledge policy. There is little use working towards social reproduction within the school building and within the training system when, as a result, the general social policy of the right-wing parties has greater social and economic differences between people and districts. It is just as scarce to work for a zero tolerance approach to bullying when people out in society – and there are many of them today – feel the bully of both individual politicians and political parties for their religious faith, for their dress, for their sexual orientation, or because of disability they are unable to stand in the workplace. It won't be easy to inspire students, students and teachers to make earnest efforts if society else signals that knowledge is not so dangerous. We are just seeing it in some important debates today. For example, the climate debate is a gruesome example of this, where not least the Progress Party is turning its back on knowledge and research and has its own explanations, as opposed to the ‘knowledge producers’ telling us. It does little to help that the right side is concerned with equal opportunities and small differences, when we have a tax policy and a labour policy that shows that the parties in society have a different practice. But it's usually tricked up tactically today to dress up red-green language, not least at a time when both scientists and many politicians celebrate the Norwegian model of society. The last contribution to the presentation of the Norwegian model is – perhaps surprisingly – from the OECD in the context of the latest PISA report. Because it's not SV leader and knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen who explains the progress in Norwegian school by referring to the school of unity, and that we have a society of small social differences and tensions. No, it's the OECD Sea! Let's also remember what Boston College Professor Andrew Hargreaves said at the major training conference in Trondheim in August, and as he repeated when we were visiting the KUF Committee in Boston one month later: there are two major reasons for the drop-out problem in high school. One is high school, which we are now dealing with in a very good way, and the other is society – a society with great social differences and with great tensions. When we have such a society, we're not going to be able to solve the drop-out problems in high school either. So on to the little knowledge policy: there is no doubt that there is now a very large consensus between the political parties, between the political parties and professionals here in Norway, and between the political parties and teachers and others who work at school – fortunately. I think that is clear from the budgetary position here today. I see that some of the opposition parties will move a little bit on homework, some will take out fruit and green, some will decrease a little bit in hours, while others will increase something in hours, some will reduce some activities in the study associations, etc. We see that privatisation is pushed in the background. I think the representative Elisabeth Aspaker here answered quite disparately when she was challenged earlier in the debate today. The differences are actually not greater than that, and that's a good starting point for the further development work that we're all so eager to continue with, and for which we have such clear ambitions. Early efforts and efforts where individual life is as much as possible — and as a result of providing an offer adjusted for individual life within the framework of the class or group set — are currently at the heart of Norwegian school policy. To get to this, time is important enough, teachers are important enough, and it's important that the school becomes a place where everyone thrives. Therefore, it is so important that the number of hours spent in childhood is increased by one hour from the fall of 2010, that we have started the teaching aid system, and that the Ministry of Knowledge, together with the teacher organisations and the KS, are developing a resource standard, so that the teacher's density increases, and that we make the school a good learning venue and a good job. School policy for us red-green is about something far more than finding the one, redeeming single measure. It is to find comprehensive, good solutions, both in terms of training systems, and in terms of school alone, not least in terms of interaction with society. For us there will be a further, quite natural ambition in the years to come, as we still see that some of the parties – even so long – refuse to develop the primary school/SFO package to become a full-day offer, in the same way that the kindergarten has been so successful. We have received a cultural school message – we all have to read it – that presents in an inspiring way such an offer. We know that the vast majority of parents need it, we know that business and society need the workforce that thus becomes 'available' when kids have a good day's supply. Not least, we know that the kids appreciate a day filled with good school, with good culture, outdoors and sports activities, and which is seaworthy to allow for disconnection and free play. In the last PISA study, which most people come across today, it says that: ‘in an international comparison, Norway appears to be a country with a high degree of cohesion in terms of learning outcomes’. So, among other things, it focuses on: on the relationship between learning outcomes and social cohesion. It says, not least the red-green government says, that this is not good enough. But relatively, the conclusion of the researcher behind the report is that we are on the right track: Norway is able to cope with a large degree of cohesion compared to other countries. This was to me one of the most joyful conclusions in that report, because it shows that we are also on the right track in this respect. Another key point for us in the future is to reintroduce greater diversity and diversity, both in terms of science and learning methods. I am then delighted to contribute to the development and subsequently to the treatment of the new high school counselling, because I think it is just going to emphasize this in a good way. I sincerely hope that the opposition will join in, just to get back some of the diversity and variation in our offer, which again takes us further into the New GIV bet, which in a very correct way signals the same understanding of what is the point of training, with the same knowledge view. We've lost a few years because we've become a little too instrumental, a little too narrow. I hope this year I don't get a line against myself like the one I got last year, which goes on that when you start talking about a more practical school, when you start talking about how important it is to get in the arts and culture profession, etc., you're going to be accused that then there's a play we're looking for in Norwegian school. A little bit about higher education and research: we have a lot of good school debates today. It's a small exception when we come to higher education and research, because here it looks like there's a crisis, it's kind of never been worse than it is today. If we look at the red-green government period, the facts on the ground say we've had a significant growth in recent years. For example, we've got 1,000 new scholarship positions, we have a real growth in the ten pst sector. in the case of education and students, we have a real R & D growth of 27 p.p., we have 5 200 new student housing, etc. This is positive number, this shows growth. And then we can all agree that we want stronger growth, and we want both stronger and better activity in the sector. We're all going to have ambitions about that, and I'm very happy that the opposition has ambitions about it, just like the red-green government has ambitions about it. And then there's another 22 seconds, or 21 seconds, now 17. I'm going to come back to a later article and talk about what I think is particularly important in the future, and it's more likely to get an offensive in adult learning – to reach adults where adults live, now adults where adults work, and give them an opportunity to get into our education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e576	The formation element is important in the Norwegian school. Sometimes I get the impression that in-house SV does not have a lot of focus on the history subject, but I think it is very good that SV now embraces the Nordic model and the market economy. I think it's very good. It wasn't as obvious 20 years ago. I am also very pleased that the representative Hagen declares the play school dead and buried, as he did in his post. But then the budget debate on the financial position. Then the Council of State Lysbakken said that this is a budget that prioritises the weak. We've heard in a previous line shift that the government is removing the support for computer equipment for people with dyslexia, and SV is today going to vote against giving students the right to study loans in the care of children's protection. That's 90 students, and that's five million. kr. How does this fit into the Lyssbakken rhetoric about the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e588	First of all, I notice that Tord Lien has read the blog of Kristin Klemet, where she claims that we have been against the Nordic model. I notice that Tord Lien defines it as a market model. It's an original definition. The Nordic model is based primarily on tripartite cooperation between employees, employers and public authorities. We are particularly good at this very thing. In the case of dyslexia, we've had a line exchange about it in the past. Here there's a reorganization going on, where the school owner gets more responsibility. But it is obvious that the right to get the type of tools is as strong today as it has done before. Then the government and we in the red-green crowd of the Storting are concerned that we're now going to follow up on what's going on, and get some unfortunate results, we're going to seasily fix it. But initially, the right is just as clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e595	I brought with me an exciting book. There are no kiosks, but for us in the committee it is exciting to read the setting and go through the comments. It's so that sometimes a person becomes a wonder. I see SV as a party occupied by the individual's rights and concerned that society should take care of them, especially when they come into difficult situations. I am therefore very surprised that only the opposition parties have taken up and pointed out the problem of occupational injury. It is therefore the case today that the grant holders and staff at the places of study are covered by professional compensation schemes, but the students are not. What is the reason why SV would not support an investigation into this, so that the students could also be taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e602	We have had enquiries that go on this. We don't see that students get into a more problematic situation than other young people who are out of work, that way. Students are also assured if they suffer a occupational injury in the study situation. This does not mean that political leadership and we do not follow up on what is happening, but today we do not see the need for a separate investigation into the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e607	SV – before government – would be angry over the dyslexia decision, and that so many now lose PC. They would also be angry over another matter. We've received the PISA study, and as the Christian People's Party sees it, and I also think SV, it only measures a small part of the school's mission. But it's also that we see a happy development, that the bottoms have been lifted up. We have fewer in the lower group. However, — and here it is coming — Norway is among the countries that have exempted most students from the tests. The number of samples kept out has increased from 3,5 pst in 2006 to 5,9 pst. in 2009. Is there a risk that this is what shows that we have now achieved greater social cohesion in school, as the representative mentioned in his statement? And doesn't SV think it's a disturbing development we're seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e614	We also noticed that phenomenon, or the exception, as the representative points out. After all, it is professionals who fully control the implementation of this survey. We have no reason to believe that professionals provide Norway or Norwegian schools with any special treatment in connection with the conduct of that survey. So we fully trust that, and we've been confirmed by professionals, too, that it's done a proper methodical exercise of that investigation – right in the sense that it's done in the same way as in other countries that have the survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e620	As an old teacher in history and political idea history, I have now moved from being frustrated by the ideological interpretations of Aksel Hagen to seeing that they are quite entertaining, because there is an ever-changing change in what socialism is, and on what principles socialism is based. Socialism is now becoming something between the Left and the Workers' Party. It's an exciting journey. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. The left and the left have joined forces and fought many battles in this hall for free research. We submitted a Document 8 proposal to which the government agreed, and which we got through here in Stortinget. This was the case with the Free Research Institutes. I must say that I very much agree with what our higher education and research minister has said in the field. That is why we have also put forward a proposal in the Chamber today to ensure the freedom of research and the freedom of research institutes. So my question to Aksel Hagen is whether he will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e627	First of all, I haven't given a definition of socialism. I gave a definition of the Nordic model of society, which was a completely different definition from that of Tord Lien. Secondly, the proposal to the Left I haven't seen yet, but I'll sit down at my desk and look at it. We are committed – and I think the whole committee is – to strengthening free research. I believe that we have also contributed to the state budget to do so. But we've first and foremost given the student growth the main priority this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e634	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e637	I'm going to start my post with a third-class story and one of my classmates meeting with well-being and learning in Norwegian school. We were supposed to fix the mattel, and everyone took the workbook out of the bag. The problem was we went through the answers, but when we were done, it turned out that the classmate had been very eager and made one page more with mattelex than what was given. The consequence was the brusque appeal from the teacher, and he had to erase the answers on the extra page with tasks he had solved. I don't think this contributed to good well-being or motivated this student to further efforts for learning. But fortunately, a lot has happened in school since the Olympics in Lillehammer. There has become a completely different focus on raising both those students who are professionally weak and those who need bigger challenges. It is, in my opinion, a key factor in improving Norwegian school. The teacher's role as a teacher and leader in the classroom is made clear, and clear demands and expectations for the students in terms of learning outcomes are two things that this government has had a lot of focus on. Today, the budgetary position of the main committee in Stortinget is being discussed. Although the oil fund makes us unique internationally at a time of global financial crisis, it's not the oil fund we're going to live on in the future. About 80 pst. Because the values in this country are between our ears. It is human capital that is Norway's future fund. I'm not a big fan of talking about human qualities in economic terms, but you could say that it gives us all a great responsibility to ensure the best possible return on this human capital, while choosing the right risk profile when we add the framework conditions. It looks like confusion on one of the many pension ads that go on TV a day. I'm going to reflect a little on last year's campaign. One of the big issues in the election campaign was the discussion about full-time school. How long would school day be, and what would be put into school? It was a quantitative discussion more than a qualitative discussion. I feel that the debate has almost been absent after the elections, and I am pleased about that. Now the focus is on quality, on content, on how to get more, good teachers, better education, how to practice school day and intensify the fight against apostasy. This is very similar to the content of the Centre Party's school programme for confusion. When I was a student counselor at high school, we wrote a letter to all the parties at Stortinget about a high school billionaire. We thought there was too little focus on high school, that the stage had major challenges, and that it was now time for a lift. We got a lot of standard answers back, but one response was excellent. It was from Marit Tingelstad, a central bank representative in Oppland. She invited me to the Stortinget. There was a rendezvous, a meeting at the big restaurant, and I went home again with a centralized bag on my back. I am therefore particularly pleased that the government is now working on a big message about the high school, which is to be submitted to spring. In the opinion of the Centre Party, much of the solution is to reduce, among other things. non-compliance on this particular step. We need to give the students a timetable that is more adapted to their strengths and interests. The electoral profession deserves a reindeer in high school. We also need to look at the balance between theory and practice in the various disciplines. We often group subjects in two blocks – theoretical and practical – but it is an important point that all subjects should have both theoretical and practical content, and that there is the balance between the two that are important. A more practical secondary school requires that we have teachers with good skills, who, not least, have time to teach in a varied and exciting way, and that we bet on modern equipment. For the Centre Party, it is also important that the communication is ambitious in terms of entrepreneurship and contact with the labour market. Knowing in practice what a profession is all about and learning to create its own business is knowledge that hopefully will lead to students better equipped to choose the right education in higher education. Letting young people try out as entrepreneurs is perhaps the cheapest and best form of nutrition that we can facilitate. Many schools are doing well today, and I never stop being impressed by the work of Young Entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship as a method can also be a good way to motivate more students, thus reducing the dropout. The Committee's red-greens have improved the budget. We do more than reverse the cut at the national colleges and give them a role in the drop-off rate. In the vote, we ask the government for an overall review of the offer of higher education in Norway. The centre party is a warm supporter of the fact that higher education institutions will have conditions that allow further development of the offer, and look forward to discussing this matter in the future. In my opinion, the most important clarification we have made on this trade union budget is the earmarking of 1 million. kr to the project Week Sex. It is a sexual educational system from Denmark, which is now to be introduced in Norway. Many suggest that we need to strengthen sexual education. We are high on the statistics on gender diseases and are world champions of having unprotected sex. The experience from Week Sex in Denmark is very good both from students and teachers, and already more than 20,000 students have registered the Norwegian scheme next year. It is important to strengthen the capacity of young people to make independent and informed choices about their own sexuality. The budget shall amount to 425 million. kr to increased completion in secondary school. Of this, 165 million is going to be going to be. kr to the New GIV bet – the amount of time needed for increased implementation in secondary school. We have a stable high dropout in Norway, which may be due to many conditions. Lack of basic skills, theorization of school, noise and unrest in classrooms, lack of apprenticeships and poor counselling services have all been highlighted as explanations, and there are several. The challenge is complex and needs an overall approach. The new GIV project targets the resources, draws with many relevant actors and is a work we have to succeed in. In the work on the New GIV, however, it is important not to forget that the best response to non-response is to ensure that municipalities and counties have a framework that allows them to invest in the school. Therefore, it is a common red-green objective to continue the strengthening of the local economy that we have contributed to in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e660	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e663	The centre party is, as you know, particularly concerned with district policy. This also means, of course, that they are interested in strengthening training and job security with access to highly skilled workers in both the country and the city. Many specialised schools in different parts of our country are now reported to have major challenges in the conversion of the economy and that the counties are responsible. Vocational schools provide as well-known education from six months up to two years. Much of this training is very important for vulnerable districts. Will the Central Party return its financial responsibility to the State? And if not, what will the Center Party do to secure the colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e672	It's quite right, as the representative Thorsen says, that the Center Party is a strong supporter of the colleges. As I said in the debate on Monday, the subject schools are unique in that they adapt rapidly to changing skills needs in society, and they respond to important challenges in society, especially in providing education in health, care for the elderly and climate/energy. The centre party supports the conversion done by assigning financial responsibility to the counties. Of course, we also see and hear the feedback that some schools have challenges, but it is as much about the level of support as the level that is responsible for paying it. It's a challenge that the Center Party will follow closely in the future. But no, the Center Party is not going to go into a governmentization of the funding of colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e681	I think that the representative Rindal made a very good contribution, and we also got a little insight into how the acquisition of new members to the Senterung judgment is going on. The centre party may be the party that holds its hand over today's municipal structure and has a great love for the smallest municipalities in particular. The Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen here in Stortinget has said in the past that she is concerned about the small municipalities as school owners – perhaps not in relation to budgets and finances, but in relation to competence. We are several in the committee who have had many discussions about the importance of municipalities becoming better school owners. How does the representative Rindal see that all the small municipalities are going to be able to have enough skills when we make greater demands on them as school owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e688	Let me first say that I think many parties underestimate the importance of taking engaged youth seriously when it comes to responding to enquiries. And one should never underestimate the significance of a meal in the big food restaurant and a centenarian bag! But then to the question. The centre party sees the challenges of some small municipalities in terms of school competence, but it is very much the same about the reorganisation that many municipalities have done, both large and small, in terms of introducing two-tier models and removing the principals. The Central Party fully agrees that there has been a major error in Kommune-Norway. So is it that very many small municipalities are able to find many good local solutions, for example. inter-municipal solutions, in order to maintain competence and further develop schools. I myself have been a municipal politician in Dovre and know that regions define common skills needs and make plans to meet those challenges through continuing training of teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e697	The representative was in his post on how to create the best possible school. For the Christian People's Party not only does it spend a lot of money, they also have to be used properly. That government has given priority to the last few years is precisely what the representative in his speech was concerned about the fact that the debate was no longer going to take place, namely several hours. Both the SV and the Workers' Party have underlined that it is their way to the full-day school. The Christian People's Party believes that it is the teacher who is the most important resource, and we will therefore spend the large amount of money differently from what today's government is doing: increasing teacher's density, more ambitious efforts at continuing education, launching mandatory mentoring and a better and more practical secondary school, which the representative was also involved in his post. What's the reason why the Center Party wants to spend 1.3 billion? kr in several hours instead of what the post of the representative was about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e706	It's important what we choose to spend money on in school. The centre party is not Catholic in the matter of not granting money for several hours. We also see that some of the reinforcements that have been, among other things, in Norwegian, math and English, has been necessary because the results and level of education have been too poor, and there has not been enough time to provide the teaching that Norwegian students deserve. I feel that with the Central Party in government, we are able to find just that balance between several hours, an extension, and bet on increased quality within the existing school day, which we also experience that our partners, the Workers' Party and SV, have a great understanding of and are equally concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e712	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e715	Today’s debate is held after the very latest results of the PISA study have been presented. It gives the debate a special touch, and it might make the debate we have today, even more important, even though the press release does not exactly give the impression. With today's PISA results, we're back to starting with what PISA measures. But it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that PISA only measures a small part of the mission of Norwegian school. I am pleased that we can see progress in Norwegian students' results, and in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the teachers will have all the credit for the job they have done. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party would say that, in terms of what PISA measures, we are not satisfied with just being back to the beginning. With the government budget, you continue to use a medicine that you don't know the consequences of. So far, we haven't seen the results of the government's gigantic increase in the number of hours at the small school stage. This is a measure that costs a lot of money. To date, the government has not been able to provide research results that show that it is working. PISA also shows that gender differences are large and that the number of hours will not be able to reduce this. The government parties have criticized the Christian People's Party for cutting in the hours at school. The hour is the holy cow of the government, and it must not be touched. Dramatic cut at school we have been able to read about in newspaper posts from government parties. But to create the world's best school, it doesn't just keep spending a lot of money, they also have to be used properly. The Christian People's Party believes that the teacher is the school's most important resource and will therefore spend the large amount of money on teachers. That's our logic. The relationship between teacher and student is much more crucial for a good school than the government of today adds up to. We want to increase the teacher's density. We want a more ambitious commitment to continuing education. We will launch a mandatory mentoring system for newly-trained teachers. We want a better and more practical secondary school. The government will have several hours. On Monday we could read in the evening post that next year too it does not seem to be becoming more teachers in school. However, the State Secretary of the Department had a relaxed attitude to it all. She doesn't think the numbers are dramatic: ‘The most important thing is to stabilise teacher’s density and avoid further cutting, but also to obtain a certain growth.’ ‘Ambitional’ is not an adequate word for government policy in this way. The government has announced that they will deliver a major report on high school. That Christian People's Party has been calling for a long time, and we look forward to it. However, we have noticed that there is nothing in this budget that suggests that money will follow with this message. The only budget targeted at high school must be the labour market. The weakness of this subject is that it should not be for everyone, and thus it does not solve the lack of practical subjects in the school or the theories. I believe that everyone will be able to benefit from practical subjects at school, regardless of their skills and facilities. The large amount of applications from schools shows that there is an enormous need for a more practical secondary school. I believe there is a need for a much stronger commitment to quality development in high school. That is why the Christian People's Party proposed to allocate 75 million in its alternative budget. kr for quality development in secondary school. The government has put in place a guidance system that only some newly-trained teachers can avail themselves of. The Christian People's Party believes that the voluntary arrangement is far too uncommitted and ambitious in terms of competence and structure. In addition, there is a great weakness in the fact that teacher organisations are not included on advice here. I believe it is essential to keep teachers in school that they give the best possible start to their career. It is a very demanding task to work well as a teacher — a challenge that has undoubtedly increased. We have to avoid the practical experience of many newly-trained teachers when they meet the reality of the classroom. In order to strengthen the link between theory and practice, we do not escape structural grips. Better practices are needed, but more practices are also needed. The Christian People's Party believes that a mandatory mentoring system in the form of an introductory year would make a decisive contribution to this. That is why we are asking the government today to come back to Stortinget with an arrangement for a mandatory mentoring system, in the form of an introduction year for newly educated teachers. In this budget, too, the government proposes to set up a number of new study places. The fact that several take higher education is positive as long as the quality of the education is good. However, we believe that there is a need for stronger ambitions on the theme of quality in education in parallel with the stepping up of several places of study. It is now essential to strengthen the educational part of the sector. We need to strengthen professional environments, increase guidance through the study, provide educational skills enhancement to the scientific staff, and ensure relevant practices. An important measure to improve the quality of higher education is a stronger focus on guidance throughout the study. Good guidance helps each student to develop professionally and to master and complete the study, while preventing the students from being delayed in the studies. Furthermore, I believe that good practice and cooperation with the labour market increase the relevance of education, which is an important quality indicator. This is particularly important in short vocational training. That's why the Christian People's Party proposed to allocate 107.5 million in its alternative budget. kr for better guidance in the study and SEK 107.5 million. for better practice. We need to focus on knowledge, on education and on research. It is very worrying that, in the course of its budgets, today's government has systematically de-prioritised these areas of activity, despite the fact that the government has had a historically large economic space. It is serious when the sector announces that the budget adopted today will in reality mean a decline in research appropriations. That is why the Christian People's Party has strengthened research through its budget. One of the themes that has come up to now is church policy. The report ‘Church control 2009/2010’ by the Church employers’ and interest groups on the state and maintenance of church buildings points out, among other things. there is too little fire and burglary protection in the majority of church buildings. I am particularly concerned about the poor security of peaceful and protective churches. Many of these are also equipped with large cultural memories. Municipalities have the basic financial responsibility for the operation and maintenance of churches. However, according to the responsibility of the State for cultural memories with national values, government contributions are necessary for a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protective churches. We therefore ask the government to present a comprehensive plan for state measures for the fire and burglary of peaceful and protective churches in the context of the revised 2011 national budget. There are also other major needs in the Norwegian Church. There is also a need for more performances. The Christian People's Party is concerned that mass falls are being reported. We talk a lot about abstinence in this committee, but there's also a fairly large proportion of trade-offs in our society. More people experience that local church services are becoming a rarity. We need more performances and more effort to get more services and to keep a local church where you live. The Christian People's Party also believes that we need a faster stepping up of the faith training reform. There is great frustration in those communities that have not had access, but have been ready for many years, and wanting to be able to participate and offer this to their children and young people. There is also great frustration that sometimes the Church’s own resources have been used to achieve the faith training goal. Therefore, the Council of State should be commended this time for the funds that have come to religious training, for the first time coming outside, and that there is a proper bet and not just something the Church should re-prioritize. I started with PISA and I'm going to stop with PISA. It is good that we have better scores for the weakest, but it is worrying with the reports that more people are being exempted from the PISA tests. I'm afraid that teaching is also largely directed towards doing good in PISA, but the school has a much broader task than that. Let's not forget that even though PISA is a great landmark, it's quite odd. PISA is an indicator of the education target, but it doesn't tell everything about the quality of school. It's not enough to use PISA as the only unit of measurement if we have a good or a bad school. I will then be able to address our proposals and the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is associated and which have not been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e769	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e774	I share the representative's commitment to good initial training, and I see that the Christian People's Party cuts in the budget for initial training. It's a cut that'll be able to take the students' lessons in Norwegian, English and math, which is a central subject. And international contexts show that it is the kind of subject that needs to be further prioritised. In addition, we know that the school is asking for calmness to carry out the promise of knowledge. They are asking that there be no dramatic changes. If we were to follow the wish of the Christian People's Party to reduce the number of teaching hours considerably, it could lead to unrest and dissatisfaction. Why will the Christian People’s Party cut off the most important subjects and counter what the school itself thinks is important, namely calmness in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e781	I guess that's often the way you want to be at school when there's something you've introduced and want to keep. If we cut the hours that the Christian People's Party cuts in its alternative budget, we'll be down to the hour that you had in 2006, where we had the same PISA results that we now see for 2009. So I don't think that's the hour that's going to give you a better school. If we had cut those hours, we would also have gotten more teachers. I feel that is a great need out in school. The effort has now gone to fill up with teachers because of the increased hours, instead of getting more teachers into the hours we have. I'm not worried about the school for which the Christian People's Party will fight, with fewer hours, more teachers and better teachers. It will provide good learning and a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e788	It was said that it is positive that more people are taking education and that quality in higher education is important. It's about resources for the UH sector, infrastructure and learning forces – and it's probably the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. But the quality of students is also an important resource. Norway has 4.5 million inhabitants and a very export-oriented business. We're participating in markets all over the world. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party agree that it is important to facilitate Norwegian students leaving the country. It also appears in both budgets. But the Christian People's Party is therefore calling for it to be more difficult for students from, for example, Germany. Southeast Asia to come to Norway and study. When you are concerned about quality in the higher education sector, my question to the Christian People's Party is: if there are now several fewer students from Southeast Asia to Norway, will it weaken or improve the quality of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e797	The Christian People's Party has introduced a study funding for foreign students, but we have also put in a grant for those students who come from economically difficult conditions and who will then have an opportunity. It's important to clarify, so we get the whole of the proposal. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that we will get many students into Norway. We also record that from a number of professional environments now it is said that we do not have a tuition fee, which means that some of the attractive, the glum heads that might be coming to Norway are a bit skeptical. They wonder if the quality of our system is just as good when they don't have to pay the tuition fee with us. It may be an argument for introducing tuition fees, but the main argument for the Christian People's Party is that it is a budgetary issue. We want free studies for all Norwegian students, but we don't see it as our task to have free studies for the whole world's students.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e804	The labour market is an innovation in Norwegian school, and the pilot scheme was extended in the autumn. Every now there are 135 schools in 81 municipalities that are in the experiment. Demand has been high, feedback has been largely good, and the subject is evaluated and improved along the way. And in the view of the Centre Party, the subject of employment is one of several measures that are needed to get a better school. The trade provides better contact with the labour market and a more practical school day for many. It's the goal of the high school I've experienced that the Christian People's Party is behind it. Therefore, it is amazing to record the resistance of the Christian People's Party to a subject that contains some of the solutions to the challenges in Norwegian school that the Christian People's Party itself is concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e809	The Christian People's Party is not opposed to the subject of labour, but we have warned that this has been lifted as the only solution to solve the challenges that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party agree that Norwegian school is facing, namely that there are several practical challenges, a practically directed theory and a practicalally directed secondary school. One of the weaknesses in the subject of employment, as I said in my post, is that it will not be a subject for everyone. The Christian People's Party believes that even those who are so-called theorists have good experience of both practical challenges and practical subjects in Norwegian school. I believe that the subject of employment that we have now adopted, which has a lot of good in it, does not meet that need. That's why we're warning you not to put all the eggs in that curve, and rather to look at it in a much broader perspective. The labour market is one thing, but we need to have completely different measures if we are to get a good, practical-oriented secondary school and a good practice in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e816	The representative Eriksen and I come from a modern and innovative part of the country, but we are also struggling in the South with living conditions and equality. Then I get a little worried when I see that the Christian People's Party and the representative Eriksen are concerned that children should be as short as possible in kindergarten and preferably receive cash support, and as short as possible in school, i.e. have fewer hours. I fear the consequences, both for the South and for the rest of the country. Does Eriksen share my view that this is a terrible old-fashioned policy, which has negative consequences for those who perhaps most need a good follow-up in both kindergarten and school?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e823	I'm a little surprised at that entrance, because if you draw it in its ultimate consequence, it means that getting together with parents is not good. I hope the representative didn't mean that. When the cash support was introduced, there was one thing Christian People's Party was very busy checking, and it was whether children's protection used kindergarten less. They didn't. There was an evaluation presented by Karita Bekkemelm, the then state council, which showed that it did not happen; the most vulnerable children were not affected by it. We want to have good deals – and long for those who need it and who want it, but we believe that it should not be mandatory for everyone. One of the things we should be concerned about in our part of the country is that child protection students do not receive education and scholarships because they receive other things. There could have been a joint effort on the part of the representative de Ruiter and Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e835	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e838	I have to admit that I have felt a bit like an old lady in the assembly, because I have probably, among those who are in the debate, attended most of these educational debates here in Stortinget. The nature of the PISA part of the debate has changed a lot, from the first time, when PISA showed poor results to Norway, and the big debate was about whether PISA mattered or not, and to now, when PISA shows that we are on the right track, and everyone will own the results. And I think that's interesting. First, PISA shows us that if we're betting on something, and if our teachers are motivated to do a job to get it done, our teachers will be able to do it. There have been many interesting studies lately. One of them that I thought was striking, but nevertheless interesting, was the one who showed that unskilled teachers got better results. Then you have to have some knowledge of what ‘unskilled’ is. Unskilled teachers are those who are skilled but not skilled teachers. This means that they do not have education in pedagogy, but in most cases they have good education in the subject in which they teach. What does that tell us about school policy? Well, that tells us that being able to teach is very important, and it becomes more important and important, the more you get to the degrees. If you're going to learn to read a six-year-old, you also have to be able to study pedagogics. Of course, you need to know how kids learn, because then you can adapt your teaching to each other. But knowing your profession is very important. The other thing that I might think we haven't looked at in relation to that study is that most people who work as unskilled teachers, and who don't get regular jobs, are usually newly educated. They have fresh knowledge, they have fresh skills in their subject, they still burn for their subject and they think they chose the most fun subject at school to take higher education and university education. This fresh knowledge and this fresh glow of the subject are worth a lot. It is precisely these points that are the cause of the priorities of the alternative government budget of the Left. We prioritise more competence for our teachers. We want more good teachers into school, more with the glow that newly educated teachers bring into school, more with the glow that the unskilled show when they get straight from their subject. We also want more people who have depression in the subjects in which they actually teach. I encourage the entire committee, and also the state councils, to go into the blog of the Education Association and the debate on continuing education, because there is the thought-provoking input from many teachers. One teacher I read about before the weekend wrote that he taught English at high school. He had no education in the profession, but he had a very strong desire to take training to put his weights of study in English, in which he was to teach. What, then, is the answer? No, the school and the municipality won't give priority to that. They want to prioritize things that benefit more. They want to spend money on something that benefits more. I especially hope the Minister of Knowledge hears that, because it's about municipalities that don't fully understand what's good for many. There is nothing that benefits as many teachers as they can. There is nothing that benefits as many as spending money on teachers who want to be able to do their job. I don't think many municipalities have enough understanding of how important this is, so we should have done a lot more on the state side. The Left's alternative government budget is about building up the knowledge society, it's about making the big grips on poverty, on the environment, on creating jobs, on small and medium-sized enterprises. But first and foremost, the great commitment to the knowledge society. The knowledge society is about building people and building societies on the basis of human assumptions. It's about building creativity, it's about having a school that finds out what each student is good at. The financial debate was a debate in the media some time ago that we trained people too much. We have had that debate for hundreds of years, and certainly also under the great school politician in the Left, Johannes Steen, who introduced a common school 130 years ago. When he was the Council of State and the Prime Minister, he carried out a major reform. I'm absolutely sure 130 years ago, it was really controversial whether kids were going to use the time to sit on a school bench and learn to read – something they never came to use for the rest of their lives. This debate that kids are learning too much has been going on in Norway for the last 130 years. Kids really never learn too much. But it's important to have a school that also takes care of creativity and tries to find the good of each student. I heard here in the day a story about a teacher who walked around the class while all the kids were drawing, and who stopped by a little girl who drew very eagerly, and asked what she was doing to draw. No, she drew God. So the teacher said, "But no one knows what God looks like." Then the girl said, "Just wait, they'll know soon." To bring out students who have both a creativity, a knowledge, and a sea pint enough to cope with the things that you actually want to accomplish – it is important to get to in Norwegian school. Then I want to say that continuing education is always going to be the most important thing for the Left, and we are most proud of that. We joined two major representatives of the Bondevik II government and stood for one thing in the Knowledge promise, namely the follow-up and further training scheme. So we feel that we should be able to prioritize this in the future. That's always going to be the left. However, it is important to bet on the whole course of education. That's why we've added a total of 2.2 billion. kr in the field, plus that we wanted the Research Fund to increase by 73 billion. kr. This has been important to do now when we see that it is cut in the sector because of interest rates, which means that the Research Fund decides less. But it is also important to focus on students having the opportunity to be full-time students. We therefore submit eleven months of study support and full indexation of study support. We have also added 500 new scholarship holders and 100 new post doc positions. We have submitted money for advice, we want a lesson aid that is not as rigid and managed as the government has provided. We also want to have a specialist in homework, so we want to make it a support system that is organised differently. We want more specialised educators into school, and we want to take action to support environmental technology. But it is also the case that everything else in the budget – not just the education budget – is involved and supporting during the thinking of our alternative education budget. To help with measures specifically related to poor young people, to give them the basis and the security at home, are the steps we take on social assistance. The other big grips in our poverty package are important to give all kids the most equal start possible at the start of the school day. That's also why we want teachers to be teachers. I don't know if Stortinget has seen Norvegia's commercial with the teacher sitting with frustrated teenagers in front of him – it's a fantastic picture of what it's like to be a teacher. But some of those things I think the teacher shouldn't have picked up. Some of it is not his or her job to fix. Some of it is actually other functions in a school that have to take care of, because it's not that teachers should be god and mother and grandmother and aunt – and everything at the same time. The teacher should be allowed to be a teacher. But then we have to make sure there are other functions there. That's why one of the big issues of our health sister service -- building up a health sister service that makes it possible for the teacher to say when a student is struggling: maybe I'm not the best person to fix, maybe you should go to the health sister and talk to her about exactly those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e869	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, is often clear on stressing his social liberal fundamentals. And not only because it's almost Christmas, but because I also actually mean it, of course I don't have much objection to it. On the contrary, I will actually give credit to the representative for her clear ideological anchoring. But what I'm asking is whether it's ideologically justified when Left now wants to cut into such a principled system as free learning. I would like to remind you that it is not by chance that this scheme is still in the budget – it is not a forgetting either. It is still so that there are large social dividers in Norwegian society. And I'm going to think that the Left in particular is some of the Workers' Party in that this doesn't have to go further into our school. So Trine Skei Grande has asked the student organisations if they want the needs-tested scheme that has been before, which meant thousands of dollars for each individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e878	It's our social commitment that makes us mean what we mean, also at this point. Because it's a matter of introducing broad schemes where we see that teaching material is actually a big boost – it's a big boost for many families to be able to pay all the learning material. With the arrangement we have now, we're all helping a little bit, but not those who really need it. We want a scholarship scheme, because then we have a much more targeted scheme, as when the families who are struggling. Then some of the families who don't notice if there's going to be an extra bill in the post office are allowed to pay sails.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e883	The President will remind Trine Skei Grande that she did not include suggestions in her post, but she has occasion for it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e886	I'd like to, and with great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e891	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then brought up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e894	Thank you for a very good post. It was interesting to hear a lot of good reflections. It underlines what was a key point in my post, that there is a great deal of consensus about what needs to be done. It's very nice with an opposition that wants us to move forward a little bit faster and a little bit stronger. We're happy to take that with us. My question goes on with the apprenticeship focus and the apprentice grant. What the left in particular does here is to remove the employer's fee. This means that parts of Norway, for example: Finnmark, get no joy from Left's suggestion. On the other hand, they have problems where we go in with grants and give this extra focus with apprenticeships, the left will withdraw by just using such a general tool. Why is Left doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e901	We're doing this because this is what we've been told will have the most effect. We're actually adding more money to our proposal than the government is doing in it. What we see then is that there would have been a grip that would have been much more effective in those areas where we see that we have huge problems. We believe more in the general approach to using the charging policy here than in relation to other fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e906	Then there are no more relics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e910	There's one more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e915	Be my guest – Svein Gelseth. The President reminds us that it is very good to press the button to request a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e920	We'll remember that, President! Knowledge is a prerequisite for Norway to close in the future, and the government has been involved in the creation of thousands of new study places throughout the country over the last few years. We're also focused on raising the quality of higher education. In 2011, the government added up to 2,200 new places of study. This is in line with the demographic developments and feedback from universities and universities on what the sector can manage. Left handed over and adding up to an additional 2,000 places. My question then turns to Skei Grande: Where should these places be created, and how will the Left ensure that the quality is good? I thought this smelled like quantity and not quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e931	We're probably talking to different people in the sector. We're also talking to the different universities and colleges. What they're saying is that they probably, with this budget, have to cut the number of study places. It was the message we got from Stavanger last week, that because the budget is so tight on basic appropriations, because it's so tight in other ways, this budget will actually lead to cuts. That's what we've been taking over. That's why we've made the promise we have in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e936	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e939	The PISA results do not tell the whole truth about Norwegian school. It doesn't when the arrow goes up, and not when the arrow goes down. But it is very important that we see such a strong change and improvement in Norwegian school from 2006 to 2009, especially in reading, but also in science and mathematics, and that researchers can put the heading ‘On the right track’ when they deliver their report. Because that means we're doing a lot that's right, and we have to stick to it. But it is also important because it sets a new agenda for the school debate. For ten years, people have easily thrown around talking the school down – talking about how bad it was, about how many people learned so little, and they made teachers, students and parents misguided every single day. It has to end now. There's a lot of good work going on – it did before these PISA results came, it's going to do after these PISA results are a fact – and what's going on now is that we're taking a positive and optimistic picture of the work that's going on in Norwegian school every single day. The main people who have done this job are teachers, students and all the parents who are interested in the school. But fortunately, they have also had a great deal of political breadth behind them in the most important steps taken. I see it as my most important job to be the most important ally to both hold on and change along the way. So if someone now dares to blackmail and depress Norwegian teachers, they will get with me to order! Because it's like teachers like students: most people get a little bit better knowing that now you're doing something that's good, and it works. We're going to have to take that as our starting point. What, then, is this good work that we're going to stick to? Point 1: The number one success criterion in school is knowledge-rich, good teachers – teachers who have an overview of subjects, teachers who have an overview of the students, who respect the students, who get respect back, and who are clear leaders in the class. That's why it's so important what we put in on the skills of our teachers. Point 2: Management is a key word – management in the class, management in the school, i.e. that the principal is a good leader, therefore we have principal training, management from the municipality to the schools, clear management from the department and the Education Directorate. Point 3 is early effort. Early effort is about how to work when you discover a problem. That problem may occur with a six-year-old or a 16-year-old. It's about not waiting and seeing. It's about being in a hurry with measures, and being able to have a width over them. It's e.g. Some of what we know Finland is going to do. Point 4 is to stick to what's at the core of the Knowledge Lift. We're not going to throw the curriculum into the air and let them fall back on the teachers, but we're going to adjust them and revise them when we see the need. But we see that we have now found a form of basic skills and skills goals that give you more focus on results. So we're going to give better assessments and feedback. We're going to spend time better. We're going to work on a good learning environment. It's very important for learning. But we also have some challenges that I think we need to try more to solve, first of all, the difference between girls and boys. It's international. All OECD countries show the same picture. I'm going to take initiatives towards the OECD to find out more about this, because some countries are better than others here. Secondly, we want more students who read better. We have strong improvements in poor readers, but it is also the case that those who are good readers initially extend too little. We need to get adapted training for everyone. Thirdly, we need a more practical, relevant and motivating high school, and we are now working on that. The store gets a case about this for the spring. It is about getting more varied forms of work, being able to use more of the breadth of competence, that more people are going to experience mastery. It's also about practical approaches to theory – not less theory, not that we're going to back up the ambitions we have, but that we have to work in several ways. Then a main effort in this budget is implementation in higher education. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e965	Time is up – It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e970	The council was so strict when she said that we had to be positive, so I dare not do anything but try it. Governments often talk about our human capital being a major part of national wealth. Oil revenues will decline in the future, which means that we will have a stronger link between the level of prosperity and prosperity in Norway and this level of human capital, i.e. the level of knowledge, in Norwegian society. Mathematics and natural sciences are particularly important in this context. We're lying there on an average OECD level. I think we agree that we do not want to get a welfare and prosperity level in Norway that is at an average OECD level. Now I'm going to get to the positive. I think we can succeed in being OECD leaders, and world leaders, even in the real world. My question is whether the government and the Council of State want to give the real subjects, the math, the promise that you see is about – I have to say – to succeed in reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e981	Yes, absolutely. We now have to review what we have done in terms of reading. We've had a real science strategy at the same time, but probably we've got something in terms of reading that we haven't been able to do as clearly in terms of real science, and we have to look at that. We also know that teachers in real science, and especially in mathematics, vary their working methods less than the average in the OECD. A common math class is often such that the teacher goes through the problems on the board, the students calculate problems separately, and the teacher walks around and helps. A much greater degree of common reflection around mathematics is something that researchers point out that we need. Then we also end up with competent teachers, more teaching skills and more clear guidance on how to vary teaching. Here we have a job to do. I totally agree with Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e988	That was almost the time when the Council of State started its speech, because she fired an ointment by saying that for ten years people have spoken Norwegian school down. Easy? I actually thought there was a fairly broad political consensus that we had discovered some mistakes, shortcomings and challenges in Norwegian school that we had to work out. That's what we've been doing, and hopefully we're doing a lot of smart and right now that makes it look like we're on a different path and a new course, and we're on the right track. But isn't it just as easy by the Council of State to go to the other extreme and explain the genius of the school on the basis of one PISA result? To all intents and purposes, the Council of State used parts of its contribution to deepening the result there that we have major challenges related to reading – many boys in particular are in the lower category and are still reading so poorly that they will not be able to go to higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e995	I don't know exactly where Elisabeth Aspaker wants, but I want to get the PISA results now to provide information about Norwegian school, about the part that PISA measures, along with other international studies and with the studies we do ourselves. But fortunately we have a school with a broad social mandate, and therefore it was very unreasonable that the PISA results alone marked the headlines of Norwegian school. There has been a lot of good work, but we have had a significant need for improvements, and we still have. I put a lot of emphasis on that in my article. I don't get the results we have now. That's still 21 pst. by the boys who read under level 2, and we know that reading well is a key factor for success in high school. Of course we have a lot to work with. But what's so good is that we see results. We have fewer bad readers now than in 2006 – a significant decrease – and also fewer than in 2000. And then we also have challenges on... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1003	The broad social mission that the Council of State is talking about here actually comes to light through the purpose paragraph of the school. I was present at the press conference where the PISA results were presented, and I absolutely share the view that they measure only a small part of what the school actually is. It was also stated at the press conference that one was very pleased, that there was a broad political collection around the purpose paragraph, and that it might also be involved and give an overall mission. But then I also get a little surprised, because several times we have now experienced that when the government uses the purpose section, they just use it piece by piece and divided. They take parts of the assignment and make it very fragmented. My question to the Council of State is, how will she work now so that the purpose paragraph becomes an integral tool, and how can it be used in school to expand the social mission that the school actually has?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1014	We have an amazing purpose paragraph. It's even beautiful. So when I read it around, people think I'm going to start reading poems. I tried to get up a slide with the whole purpose section, but then it became terribly small. That's why I took the first sentence – and it's nice in itself. I don't think we're going to get all of Norway to put every sentence in the purpose paragraph. I believe the main message is that the school has a broad social mandate, which is to prepare the students for life and the world. It's vital, because it's about everyone having to meet a school where they can master something. It's a starting point to be safer and to respect others. It's about having to have a school with a learning environment that's such that no students are afraid to go to school and be tormented and tormented. That's what the bullies lose, and that's what the bullies lose. [[President clubs]] It's about inviting the students for reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1021	Within speaking time, yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1024	I was very disciplined now, President. I'm working on the case!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1029	The councils are good when she's in the poetic corner. The left is on a track. According to the State Secretary, we're on a very one-sided trail. I'm going to try to further develop it, because we're never going to get on that very track. It is about continuing training of teachers. Governments have been very positive about gripping the field, and have also expressed positiveness to it in several line exchanges. Now I'm going to ask a very specific question about one part: is the Council willing to increase the State share of the payment for continuing training of teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1036	It's one of the things I'm looking at, because we have a good track record in continuing education. We have now targeted the state crowns and this fission layer with the municipalities and teachers in order to build formal competence. We see, as the representative was in his post, that there is a very big difference between how the municipalities actually use this. Some people say it's about economics. It's an honest thing that the municipalities do. But it's not just about it. It is also about getting a more decentralised offer, closer to where the teachers are – these are adult people, they have family obligations. It's a challenge. So we're now working on how to organize this, so it's easier for the teachers to make use of it. We have an agreement with the organisations that we should have this design in relation to formal competence now, and that it is a spice layer. But I'm going to look at the distribution between municipalities and state.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1041	I agree with the Council of State that this is a very positive development, and I am pleased that we have reversed the trend. But I also find it a little regrettable that the Council of State finds it necessary to try to threaten political opponents of silence, when it is going to try to shed light on the challenges we still have. I think we should distinguish between painting black and drying to see that we still have challenges. If the black paint has been so totally destructive and cruel in the last ten years that the Council of State actually said, it's strange that in the last few years, despite this, you have had such a positive change. But again, as has also been mentioned in previous line chord exchanges: 21 pst. by the boys can't read and write properly. The support for dyslexics has been cut. We see that the competence in reading and writing difficulties is not implemented in the teacher training that is now under way. How does this fit into the strategy to achieve even better results in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1050	I'm happy to have these questions, because I don't think we're just going to fly around and say good Christmas to Norwegian school. I believe that the best allies for Norwegian school are those who both bring out what is positive and the areas where we still have challenges. I'm glad to have this opportunity to say that I don't have to be pulled that far. Because it is precisely that we need to have a nuanced debate. We have a lot of challenges. We can't give up. You can never give in. We never get on target once and for all when it comes to school policy, because it's about 600 000 students. Then to the dyslexics. What is very important for everyone to know is that there has been no change in the right to study for those who have difficulty reading. The change that has occurred concerns who pays for what they need to learn. That change means that now it is the municipality that has to pay, and not Nav. So the right to education is established. There has been no change in that regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1057	The Council of State reiterated in its statement that good teachers are success factor No. 1st@item: inlistbox In debates with the Right, where we have proposed redeploying money from fruit and vegetables and teaching aid to more further training of teachers, the Council of State has denounced and said that it was small money, not many teachers were given for those heads. But that's 241 million. kr for fruit and green. That's 462 million. NOK for homework, i.e. approx. 700 million. kr. Is that just a little bit of money? In that case, how will the Council of State characterize 400 million? kr, which is the government's commitment to continuing training? Is it just pickle, or what kind of bet is it on continuing education?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1062	What has been spent on continuing education in the last five years is 4 billion. kr. There is a spice layer between the state and the municipalities and the teachers themselves. It's not small money and pocket money. What's our main challenge in terms of new approaches to continuing education is to find the form of it, because there we've had vacancies. So there we have to work on several things. I have to say that I am looking forward to the election campaign, when the Right is going around to School-Norway and saying that it is these apples and bananas that are the big problem. Because when I talk to high school students, they're so incredibly concerned about eating healthy and engaging in physical activity, and there's a connection between learning and nutrition. That the right then should explain that they are going to the apple hose to pay for the teachers, I am delighted to. Because it's an important part to make sure that we have whole, healthy people in Norwegian school. [[President clubs]] I remember that in Finland there is school food — hot school food.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1069	Yes. And there won't be any longer speaking time for that reason! With that, the line chord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1075	I think it is important in this debate to point out that over a few decades Norway has, therefore, through a systematic effort on research, created new industries, such as oil and gas, agriculture and ICT. The research has also made it possible to reverse major challenges for the country to open up advantages: large distances and scattered busses have made Norway a leader before, among other things. satellite communications and telemedicine. Research is part of our knowledge policy, and it is human beings who are going to drive the knowledge society forward. Therefore, the government proposes to create 2,200 new study places from the fall of the year. The opposition on its side will increase the rights of operation of universities and universities, but without being close to targeting resources. Since the quality reform and new places of study are in fact all fully funded, this is not the effective use of community resources. With one exception, our government has also increased these budgets annually, but with the money it has always followed demands for a clearer lease, work sharing, targeting and cooperation. The opposition’s contribution to the debate – on how to raise the quality of research, which is the most important challenge in the sector – has thus limited itself to simply calling for more money and actually depriving the government of pointing to academic freedom. I want to say that it is very untypical – especially by the Right – and it is a very poor political craft. In education and research policy, academic freedom is not an ultimate goal; it is only a means that society uses to achieve other goals. As a management tool, it's bad property. In any case, some people have to rule and make decisions, but it will be done in secret. I want to give honor to the University of Oslo to engage the consulting company McKinsey to go through the organization and get them to point out how to achieve the ambitious goal of becoming a leading international research university. The conclusions of this review, which can clearly be passed on to the entire sector, are that if you want to achieve such an ambitious goal, the road goes through a clearer focus on quality. Of the four most important drivers of good quality, funding comes – only the right-hand side focuses on – first down in a fourth place. That's the fourth most important. The most important thing is to be clear on the leadership functions before higher education. But it is not enough to have good individual leaders, if the management systems built on a common platform in the organisation are missing. It is also crucial to attract and develop high-level academic staff. This requires both high quality and clear rental at institution level. This ratio is clearly visible where you can see it. has invested in external directors and added a lead - instead of the selected one. This is what the Labour Party points to in the debate on how to raise the quality of higher education. There is a clear distinction between the government party and the right side. I would like to point out that under the red-green government, both the university and high-spherical sectors and research and development have had a formidable growth since 2005. But if we are to base Right's lack of governance and governance on development within this sector, yes, then it will soon be experienced as Bjørnson in his time describes it: «Every time of joy you received on earth must be paid with sorrow. If there be more, then believe that they are given in safety only." So, pleasure hours must be paid with sorrow, and they are only given in bail, as loans. In any case, one of the good news in this budget is that three of the research institutes that have been outside the state basic funding, the Uni Rokkansenteret, the NTNU Societal Research and the Frischsenteret, are now inside and receiving a state basic funding. It will contribute to fairer conditions of competition in the sector and, of course, it will be an important lever for national research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1104	There is today a strong cross-political consensus that the fight against apostasy is one of the most important areas, and the reason why this is good is that it forces a strengthening of all stages of basic education. It's good we agree on this area, because it makes it easier to agree on a common strategy. We all agree on the goal of the school in the future, I really hope, to raise the quality of school, but we disagree on the means required and needed to achieve this. When we in the Advance Party are going to design the school day of the future, we're busy talking to those who go to school today. The student organisation pointed out this year to the same thing as last year, which is a major lack of commitment to the government’s advisory service. This, we think, is a pity, because feedback from today's high school and high school students is just that the counselling service and its quality are a very important factor in preventing apostasy. Teachers who do not have additional skills or knowledge in this area can often be put in this role, and with today’s labour market and new lines and opportunities for youth this can lead to insufficient career guidance for many young people, wrong choices and, consequently, an increase in the rate of dropout. This is why we want to strengthen the advisory service, and at the same time we hope that the government will also be able to look at better cooperation with the private sector in the advisory service. At the same time, we know that several drops out because of lack of learning places. The previously concluded social contract was important to ensure cooperation between the various sectors, both private and public. The private business has done a formidable job. Despite the fact that the apprentice's grant is close to cost, they have been conscious of their responsibility. It doesn't have the public. That is why we in the Progress Party believe that the government must now commit itself to a strategy for increasing public responsibility for the admission of apprentices. Unfortunately, bullying is still a major problem in the Norwegian school. There are now no new policies, thoughts or strategies to address this problem, or to make improvements. I think this is a very sad message to have to communicate outside to all the thousands of children and even more thousands of relatives who are still suffering from this, day in and day out. This hinders learning and hinders the quality of school. This prevents the prevention of non-response, and it prevents the protection of each child in the everyday school life. Yes, the statesmen were sent out to supervise the training law § 9 a on psychosocial environments. But without the possibility of sanctions and the possibility of remedying in the cases they detect, this seems to me more symbolic than actually a real wish of the government to overcome this problem. Last year, in the Progress Party, we proposed that all schools in Norway should be associated with an anti- bullying programme. This was then voted down by the government. But in the fall, there was a research report that showed that any school that has such an anti-tubbing program, it is Olweus, Zero or one that it stores itself, has a decline in bullying at its school just because such a plan forces increased awareness of and focus on this in school owners, management, students and supervisors. That's why we hope the government can go away from its resistance to this proposal, so that we can get through this. Several of the studies from PISA and the results there have been kept and discussed. I'm not going to be any worse. I think it's very nice that the trend seems to be turning around. It's incredibly inspiring for us who work with the school policy in the committee, to see that what is actually done and the efforts being made lead to results. We can thank the school owners, the principals and all the teachers in this country for that. But it is also important, as I mentioned in a reply to the Council of State, that we dare to look at those areas where we still have challenges, because that is the way we can actually address the issues. In fact, there should be some warning lights here to land when the government is cheering that the school and school results in Norway today are at the same level as they were ten years ago — which was then shockingly low — while we are cheering that they are now average. One would think that the government of a country like Norway had greater ambitions than that. We know that the wealth and welfare levels of the future depend on and relate to the results we produce in school. Would the government have cheered equally if we were on average when it came to welfare and wealth measurements as well? I don't think so. Over 70 pst. of the national wealth in Norway today is human capital. This proportion will only increase in the future. The founder of Apple, Steve Jobs, said: “Innovation distances between leaders and followers.” We in the Progress Party are incredibly concerned about being “leaders”. So if we're going to be part of the international knowledge economy that's now being driven forward, it won't be useful to sit here and be satisfied that we're on average. We're not supposed to be. We're going to think about how we're going to get even higher, how we're going to get the best in class. That's where the motivation is to lie, that's what should be our inspiration, not come back to an average OECD level. To achieve this, a mentality change is required, both in society in general and in the school sector in particular, for the PISA survey shows that although the average level has increased, the proportion of students in the highest level of education has also decreased. It's a problem. Here the teacher plays an important role. Nobody means as much to students' learning and commitment as the teacher actually does. Therefore, the teacher's competence, salary and status need to be strengthened and increased in Norwegian society. That is why we in the Progress Party are committed to increasing the length of teacher training, while at the same time wanting to strengthen the provision of further and further training for teachers. The teachers have to be made authoritative people that the students look up to, and as abilities to develop the talents that we actually have in school. We have to give the students the opportunity to get up and be good at what they're good at. Egil «Drillo» Olsen said that it is a pedagogical error to believe that the ones create the losers. This is what we in the Progress Party agree on, and that certainty must be implemented in the schoolwork and the everyday life of the school. Today, a lot of students feel that they are not allowed to be nice, and they are not allowed to be better than the others, they are not allowed to come any longer. It was mentioned earlier from the pulpit here an example where a student had to erase the math pieces. That's also happening today, it's also happening today that students are being held back because you have to follow the progression to the average in the class. We believe that this is wrong in the Progress Party, because it keeps down the talents and the ones that we have, that are in all of us. That's exactly what we in the Progress Party believe we want to go from the unit mindset and the unitary school to the primary school. That doesn't mean we want a school for some 1's. That means that we see that every student, every human being, is one and will have the opportunity to become one in their fields and with their potential. Then we must not be afraid to see and cultivate the talents we have in school. A survey published in the autumn showed that 25 pst. By the students – and these were both those who were theorists and those who had theoretical challenges in the field – they said they missed being asked to do so. They missed that they were required by the teacher and at school. It's a challenge we have to take seriously and look further at. It's not a matter of prioritizing the work done to the weakest groups. Very familiar is there still a female majority in the school system, and we are not the best known to strive to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. We're going to have to do that by raising the bottom, but also raising the percentage at the top. In conclusion, I would like to say that today we celebrate the ones in sport. We boast of Petter Northug when he finds the shape. We cheer for every gold medal we carry with us home after the Olympics and the World Cup, and we proudly honor the Women's Land in Handball now under the EM. Let's celebrate the ones in school too! Let's boast of Bjørnson, who was inspired by the Snorre stories. Let's cheer for every percentage point we can raise by in the highest category of the PISA study, and proudly highlight all of the girls and boys who actually managed to figure out the extra sides of the math book.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1136	The three main challenges we face are to meet the global climate challenges, to further develop the welfare community and to create knowledge-based value creation across the country. My message has always been that it's through knowledge that we're going to meet this. In this room, we have debated many times the prerequisites for a good knowledge policy. In my opinion and in the government's view, it is people who are the critical factor in developing the knowledge society. The government’s assessment is that Norway is very well rusted in this area. We are in the lucky situation that youth schools are increasing, and thus there are many more who are in the field of higher education. This represents a unique opportunity to meet the future. We know that we're going to need more teachers in the years that are coming, we know that we're going to need many more with real-time education, and that more competent staff are needed in the health sector. As a result, it has been the top priority for the government to ensure growth in educational capacity in just these areas. I will venture the claim that this has been successful. At the same time, I want to share the honor with our colleges and universities. While government and growth have allocated funds to new places of study, there has been a fantastic effort at the schools to make the best use of the capacity and to offer places of study to more people. Together, this means that the increase in capacity in colleges, colleges and universities keeps up with the growth of students. The Ministry of Knowledge has given crucial attention to using available knowledge as a basis for meeting the educational wave. So far our forecasts have turned unusually well into. Last year, we estimated that demographic changes alone could increase the demand for higher education by 17 000 until 2014. With increased study propensity, this figure could increase to 33 000. At the same time, more adults want to gain new or better skills for a working life in change and development. To meet this continuing growth in the number of students, the government therefore proposes 2,200 new places of study. In line with the needs I described, the government is precisely giving priority to teacher training, engineering training and health education in the draft budget. At the same time, we know that the teachers themselves have good skills to prioritise, because they will meet the skills needs of the workforce around them. So we say that about half of the study places are not bound, but can be strategically distributed by the schools themselves. In the field of higher education, the government's draft budget has been well received. Together, we lay the basis for meeting the educational wave and the opportunities it offers. This must be done without jeopardising the quality of education. Therefore, the 2,200 places of study are fully funded. This is why the government has also proposed to improve the financing of primary school teacher education. This alone will strengthen the sector by over 100 million. when implemented, and provide room for better research anchoring of teaching, better practice and, in general, higher quality of teacher training. The government is also continuing the quality development by continuing a 50 million allocation. kr for cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration. In a tight budget – which is the 2011 budget – priority was needed. The government has prioritised several study places and better quality in higher education. Then there was no room for major new initiatives in the research area. However, I would like to stress that the research appropriations have so far increased by 27 pst. under this government, and that the real downturn of 0,13 pst. in the budget for next year, mainly due to changes in exchange rates and the phasing-out of barley. The research budget for the year is thus continued at a high level. We have behind us a period of what has been described as partially formidable growth, and I am sure that by the end of this ageing period, the development of research efforts will be very good in the historical context. In next year's budget, we have presented research priorities that show important road choices for the future. By increasing the allocation to the open competitive area for excellent research, FRIPRO, there are more opportunities to reach out to research applications based solely on quality. By continuing to invest in scientific equipment and by increasing funding for polar research, Research Norway is preparing for the next step in research policy. Equal rights to education are the starting point and the goal. It's also about different people's opportunities for this. The government is taking decisive action to ensure a specific group of equal rights to education in this budget: students with disabilities are now receiving much better student support. We thus give more young people the opportunity to use their talents for their own benefit and for society. The government is keeping up the pressure in the expansion of student housing. This seems almost obvious, but we're going to continue our efforts at this high level. And let me remind you that we're on a level that's over three times higher than under the previous government. We're going to keep doing this. When knowledge is a prerequisite for meeting future challenges, knowledge policy is the tool. The 2011 government budget requires, and continues, a systematic and long-term effort to develop a knowledge society for the benefit of the environment and people and to meet future challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1164	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1167	I note that the Council of State is somewhat more concerned to talk about the increase that has been, than the increase that is not coming next year. We just have to live with that. I want to say that I miss a stronger focus on the technology disciplines – I could imagine that we were more prepared for the early wave. But we don't. What worries me most about today's budgetary decisions, however, is the situation of today's budgetary decisions for 2012. We know that reduced returns on funds in 2011 will mean that transfers from the Research Fund to the Research Council will be dramatically reduced. Government, can I use the term "puzzle," president? – the addition to the Research Fund will not be in the vicinity of correcting for the loss of returns from the Fund. Is the Council of State, like me, concerned about the situation for 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1174	First to technology and to meet the older wave. There, I believe we are doing a very good and important job at the very investment in the areas of study places to which I have referred. We're going to follow that in the years that come. With regard to future and fund discussion in relation to research, I share the representative's concern about looking this up against interest rate developments. That's what's the big challenge for us too. But the representative can be certain that we will address this. We have actually increased the Research Fund from 36 to 80 billion in this period. kr, so there is a significant increase. There is a significant amount of the fund today, but the developments in the future and the milestones that the fund meets show that we have a job to do in order to be sure that we get money, for example. for equipment and for future research. That representative must be absolutely certain that whatever the mechanisms we will work towards increased research appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1181	Now I was actually going to use my line on this with education for everyone, because it's obvious that the government wants to have education for everyone, but will exclude 90 students from participating in that education, namely those who are orphans. But then I heard the post from the representative Tor Bremer, and then I was worried, so I think I should follow it up. He says that academic freedom is not an end in itself. I guess I had the impression that there's a broad political consensus about that in this room that it is. Then I find it timely to address that proposal. I can immediately say that I am going to call on the representatives of the Progress Party to vote in favour of that proposal if that is the case. But I want to invite the Council of State to comment – so far – both Tor Bremer's clear position that academic freedom is not an objective, and also the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1190	We had a debate not long ago in the United Kingdom about academic freedom, and it is defined as an important principle in the Law on Higher Education. Then there has been an exciting debate just about academic freedom and freedom of research, on which both the representative and the Council of State have participated in various media. I want to maintain my starting point, which is that academic freedom is absolutely central to research. What we're working on now is how we're going to make our standard contracts visible and make them clear to those who are not covered by the law of the university and higher education law. If I can do that to this representative, here and now I would urge those behind the Left's proposal to convert it into a transmission proposal, because I would like it to be included in the evaluation. But I have some problems seeing how we can properly legislate academic freedom outside the universities and colleges. But I'm very open and positive to consider this as part of the work we're now doing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1195	The Council of State stated in its statement that the large number of new students should in no way affect the quality of education. That is a good conclusion, and it fully supports the Right. However, it is a fact that over time universities and colleges have raised more students than they have full funding for. This is done in another time, and certainly in a good sense. Now we see that more and more of these institutions are warning that this has become a challenge. At the latest in Bergen's Official Journal on Monday this week, there was a suggestion from the headmaster of the University of Bergen that they now probably have to cut out some places to maintain quality, because it has gone beyond quality. I'm recording that Secretary of State Kyrre Lekve doesn't agree that it goes beyond quality, but the principal knows best. What will the Council of State do to address the problem that more and more institutions are now reporting about the group that does not have full funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1204	I think it's good that the schools themselves recognize that it's their responsibility how many students they've brought up. What we're doing now is we're giving them the opportunity to be part of the big split layer that's about educating more people. But we see that there are slightly different feedbacks. It's mainly the two biggest universities that have problems. So to say all the others are very grateful for new places of study, accepting pleasure and want more. But the two major universities have a challenge, and it's probably both about things that have been done historically, and about the fact that they're busy – of course – of quality. I'm going to follow this carefully. We have also not allocated the two major universities that lack study places in this round. But I'm going to follow closely the inequality between the different places of study. Of course, it is my responsibility that we have full funding – we have, it comes in two portions – the study places are fully funded. And then, in common, we have to ensure that the quality is maintained in the future anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1209	I record that Soria Moria and Soria Moria II are rarely and rarely quoted by today's government representatives. There is a lot in Soria Moria II that can only be in the Christian People's Party. But there are also some things that we've agreed on, and that have been good things. This applies, inter alia, to: students and pregnancy where Soria Moria II has good formulations. I just read in Universitas about a student who gave birth four days before term. She had studied for nearly six months, but the child was eager to come out and came four days early. As a result, she missed 90 000 kroner in her parental pension. She is nine months behind in the study in relation to her fellow students and has received an extra SEK 70,000 – 80,000 in loans compared to the others. They say they don't have the right to use discretion in such cases. Will the Council of State take the initiative to meet Soria Moria II and gain greater flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1217	We get to be happy with young parents and that there will be children in the world, whether they come to the future or not. And then it's the case with the Loan Fund support schemes that they're pretty rusty, but they can't be exposed to that much discretion. It's simply not built into the system. But I'd like to quote Soria Moria II. So in the budget we're now discussing, we've met the first part of what's going on in students and student support, that's to give better student support to disabled students. I'm very proud that we've got that. And then it's also a formulation to give better support to students with children. We're not done with Soria Moria yet. I can promise the representative that this is something I'm going to work very hard for, that we can also fulfill the promise from Soria Moria II that is about providing better arrangements for students with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1226	It was actually the representative Tor Bremer we were supposed to put lines on today, because there was a lot of special. I want to follow up another part of what Tor Bremer said, namely that now the majority of the Stortinget has submitted that three institutes are going into the basic allocation. This surprises me, and I want to ask the Council of State about it – maybe she can answer it. This has also been done by the left. The left did what to do: we wrote a letter to the Ministry of Finance asking how much it costs to get four institutes into basic funding. In answer to that question, answer no. 270, the Ministry of Finance says it costs $40.6 million. kr. Why does it cost $40.6 million? kr when left to do so, and 5 mill. kr when will the position do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1235	I am very pleased with what the Committee has done for these institutes, which have been through an authorisation system in the Research Council and should really have had a basic allocation. It's not about secondary institutions, it's about completely good up-to-date institutions. I am very grateful that the Committee has then found it possible to put in place something to meet the need for basic appropriations, which perhaps the Ministry of Finance has a slightly different bill. Then it gets up to the institutions even if they're happy about this or not, but we also want to be clear with this signal that we don't want a system where you get a quality assurance, like in this case from the Research Council, without having a funding at the same time. In the future, there will be consistency between what is money for basic funding and any approvals of research institutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1242	Now we have heard the Minister of Research admit today that the research budget to next year is going down in real terms. There was something else we heard when the budget was presented. Then it was crafted by the big addition also on the research budget, but actually it goes down. So the council says again today that the reason for that is a change in exchange rates. It is possible that I have misunderstood something, so it can certainly be clarified by the Council of State: Is it not true that if the government would and if the Council of State – the Minister of Research – had had an impact on the government, the government could have increased the budget for research, even if exchange rates change both here and there? It's probably a question of wanting to increase the budget, and not a mathematical calculation of the exchange rates we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1249	We have increased the research budget in dollars and dollars by half a billion dollars. Then the price and interest rate developments have led to 0.13 pst. less than the previous year. But I think we have such a high level of research budget that for this one year to come, we will tolerate this. I'm going to work for, of course, increasing the research budgets in the years to come. What we have been able to do in this next year's budget is to keep a high growth rate – a growth that has actually been described by the research analysts themselves as a formidable increase in growth in recent years. We stay at the high level, and by re-prioritising within the research budget, we are getting a strengthening of what is the Free Project Support within the Research Council. I feel that I have been perceived as a very good signal in the research communities themselves because there has been a lack of a strengthening of this research. In addition, we have strengthened polar research and other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1258	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1261	This is an education budget that meets today's and the future. The working life of the future will meet us with at least three major challenges: Firstly, the relationship between the number of active people and the number of people in need of care will change significantly. It will be less in working age and more in need of care. Secondly, a smaller proportion of jobs in the labour market could be filled by unskilled workers. This is a development that we have already seen over a long period of time, and it is a consequence of both technological development and increased skills needs. Thirdly, growing economies in other parts of the world are becoming more and more competitive and competitive. We need to look beyond our own borders, and we need to have ambitions for a high level of knowledge in our population that can match the most developing new economies in the world. This is why we focus on quality at all stages of education, from kindergartens to higher education. Education is both about self-development and about getting the basic skills needed to participate and to contribute to the labour market. We take the consequence that unskilled people will strive more in the years to come, and we strengthen the work against high school dropouts. With early efforts, we will equip today's youth with the skills they need to get a good foothold in the workplace. We take the consequences of the expected student wave by proposing 2,200 new higher education places. And we recognise the future needs of working life by allocating them to specific education where we see that the need will be great, such as teacher training and health and social sciences. We have high ambitions for the higher education sector, and have increased the budget by nearly 6.8 billion. kr from 2005 until this draft budget. However, we also demand cooperation and division of labour in important disciplines for the country and at the top of the institution. As Bjørnstar Bjørnson once said, "Among the hundred who are wondering, to think becomes one." We can't tell exactly which thinkers we need in 50 years, and what thoughts they're going to think. That's some of the reasons why we've proposed increasing the funding for basic research by 60 million. kr. In total, research and development receives nominal growth of 550 million. kr from the aged budget. There are clear priorities of knowledge in a relatively tight budget. Now I'm of the opinion that you can't just measure ambitions in the size of your money usage. You also have to look at the willingness to claim the money – that is, after all, the community's money. It was an important part of the assessment of the working group behind the Quality Action Space report, which the Minister for Research and Higher Education ordered, namely that it is important to strengthen strategic management and the ability to prioritise. There are important interventions to ensure quality in education and research. We have increased funds for the sector, but we also link expectations to money use, whether it be about study places or about SAC funds. We don't just want to be an administrative office for the knowledge nation we want to run. I notice that not all opposition parties are equally visionary. The Progress Party and the Right primarily pursue higher education policy — more and more so and more so. The left will have several places of study, but has not expressed any sentiments about how they will allocate places. In view of the challenges facing Norway, this appears to be rather small in scope. Policy is not to throw money at institutions, it is to prioritize, direct and have a comprehensive analysis of what the challenges are. As Oslo representative, I also register that the Right in Oslo is in the middle of the debate on the ambitions for continuing training. I can't see any reason why you should rest on the laurels in Oslo School and lower the ambitions there, even though I'm recording that unfortunately that's the case. Finally, I would like to add a comment to what the representative Hanekamhaug said in his post. She quoted as Egil ‘Drillo’ Olsen in order to give legitimacy to the desire of the Progress Party to invest more in the Ones. I want to make it clear – it is publicly known – that Egil Olsen is a communist. It also shows that the willingness to bet on the ones is not unique to the Progress Party. The difference is probably first and foremost that at the same time – cross-politically, I would say – we will challenge both those who strive the most, and those who do well at school today, who want to learn more, but that we, our side of the political ideology line, do not want to let it go at the expense of the students who strive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1298	Investing in knowledge is a strategy that no party here on the Storting is against. These days, all of us in the KUF Committee have written comments and made comments on the importance of investing in knowledge. In party speeches, throne speeches and new year's dates, knowledge is included. A preliminary record was well received by the Prime Minister on 1 January of this year when he said in his new year’s year ‘knowledge trumps everything’ perhaps as much as 20 times. It was actually a very good speech, but it naturally created great expectations of the government's priorities in the time to come. But when the state budget came, we realized that it was a long way from New Year's celebrations to concrete budget commitment, because knowledge does not trump everything in the government budget for 2011. The effort on knowledge is becoming a new moon landing. And that's not positive. That the government dares to provide a budget that for the first time in 10 years has a real decline in research is both disappointing and incomprehensible. Norway is a small and expensive country to produce in. If we are to sell our goods and services, we must constantly develop them through research, development and innovation. We can't afford to lose terrain. But that's unfortunately exactly what we're doing. At the European Innovation Scoreboard, Norway is now ranked below the average for Europe and among the ‘lossing countries’ group. Research efforts in Norway are lowest in the Nordic countries and below the EU average. Both the number of innovative and R & D enterprises has fallen steadily in recent years. If it is that ‘knowledge trumps everything’, it does not look so good to Norway. It doesn't just help to say that knowledge is important, we really need to bet. Norway is in a unique position internationally. While other countries are drowsy and forced to cut budgets, Norway has a unique economic space to invest. We could use this opportunity to equip the country for a world-leading knowledge nation with internationally leading educational institutions and research environments. We could climb to the top of the European Innovation Scoreboard, and our best universities could be among the 50 best in the world, for example. It would require a clear national strategy and ambitious commitment over the next ten years. Those are the years we probably have left with an action room big enough to do it. Of course, we have also had it to those degrees in the last five years, but over the five years, the government has thrown away the possibilities that have been there. Does the government have the will to bet in this way? Unfortunately, it doesn't look like this. A research budget with a real decline for the first time in ten years does not promise well. The contrast with other countries is striking. Take the United Kingdom as an example: your 2011 government budget involves an average cut of 20 pst. Only the research budget will be protected – there will of course be no increase, but it will not be in Norway either. With such an incredibly much better starting point, it is simply alarming that the government of Norway is unable to do better. It is a tasty and halfhearted commitment to knowledge that government stands for, and at least it does not thrush everything! There are greater ambitions for Norway on the right. We're increasing the investment in research by a total of 600 million. kr in our budget. The right is not an irresponsible party. We don't have more money for all good purposes. But we have a sense of smart investment. A strong commitment to research today is an investment in the future, more specifically in future value creation. This is necessary if we are to maintain living standards and well-being in the future, after the oil. I have recorded that the Right has been attacked in debates earlier this week here in the Chamber to undermine the welfare community. It's a pointless criticism. Our criticism of the government is primarily that it does not focus on growth-promoting measures that can ensure jobs and value creation in the future, because it is the value creation that makes well-being sustainable both today and tomorrow. So finally, investing in knowledge in the future is also ensured by spending money on the Research Fund. Again, the government stumbles in the wrong direction. The deposits have fallen, year by year, under the red-green government. From 14 B.C.E. SEK in 2006 to SEK 6 billion. kr in 2009 and only 3 brd. kr in 2011. Right rate in 2011 the five-fold! Of the fund's 77 bn. kr is only a third budgeted under the current government. The Bondevik government was in need of finance, but was able to save and set aside for the Research Fund. The Stoltenberg government has had the buying party of the times, but cut the savings to half. Return on investment in the Research Fund will decrease from 2012 onwards as a result of lower interest rates. Therefore, deposits need to be increased and not reduced, as the government puts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1315	The Norwegian Church is in a major and important period of reform – many challenges lie ahead. Nevertheless, something remains: the Norwegian Church is to be preserved and developed as an open and inclusive people's church, with a broad lashing among church members. The 2008 Church Agreement forms an important pillar in the process of achieving this goal for the Church of the People. Implementation of the agreement is under way. Last month I was present at the opening of the Church Meeting in Tønsberg. There, as Minister of the Church, I was able to speak for the first time to a church meeting where a large proportion of the delegates were elected by direct elections. The system of testing direct elections to the Council of Bishops and Church Meetings is part of the ongoing democratic reform in the Church, in line with the conditions laid down in the Church Agreement. The experience of church elections in 2009 will serve as a basis for further testing in 2011. Then we have to carry out a thorough evaluation of the elections and the reform of democracy. The church budget has a budget of about 72 million. kr for the implementation of the elections next year. There is a lot of money and says something about how important it is to test and facilitate participation and engagement in church elections. Democracy building will not in itself be enough to create belonging and commitment to the Church. The Norwegian Church is to be preserved and renewed as a church of the people, and new generations must also find their place. I am therefore very pleased that an overall committee has so clearly underlined the importance of religious training. The 2011 church budget represents a record 27 million increase. kr for the reform, and just like last year there are fresh funds. The total allocation is now close to 200 million. kr. The government's aim is to make the reform nationwide in all congregations. I am pleased that the Committee supports this objective. A nationwide people's church depends on a well-functioning performance service that is present in all communities. In recent years, several measures have been implemented to improve the working conditions of performance. Nevertheless, we have learned that in parts of the country there are challenges to recruiting enough achievements, and that the workload for performance has increased in several places as a result of population growth. We are constantly working to facilitate the experience of the daily work situation for the individual pastor. I am therefore pleased that we have submitted a 5 million grant application. kr for new performances in those parts of the country where the performance per church member is the lowest today. I hope and believe that this gives a signal that the pastor's service is considered important, and that we want more priests. The popular commitment to the Church is not least linked to the church buildings. It is therefore very gratifying that in the last four to five years we have recorded a significant improvement in the maintenance effort towards church buildings. Total effort is more than double. The State interest compensation scheme has contributed to increased municipal grants to the churches. Operations in this area shall continue. I am pleased that the investment framework for this scheme is extended by 400 million. kr in 2011, so that the overall framework now rises to 2,5 billion. kr. Although the maintenance status has improved significantly, challenges remain in this area. It is alarming that electrical faults have been detected in many of the churches, and that there are deficiencies in fire and burglary protection. It is my hope that municipalities and church owners will take advantage of the opportunity offered by the interest-rate compensation scheme in this area as well. There is reason to express great satisfaction with the increase in the 2011 church budget. I have also noticed that there is greater satisfaction from the church staff with the budget than in many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1338	Both today – and according to Our Country – the Minister of the Church is positive in terms of the service. But to Our Land, Minister of the Church Aasrud stated: «In the Soria Moria Declaration we promised several performances. It's following the government up now. In the 2011 budget, the appropriations are increased by SEK 5 million to new performances. This increase will lead to the strengthening of the religious service provision. [[...]] The five million cover eight new posts. These positions come primarily in the Dioceses of Borg and Stavanger, where the need for new performances is greatest.» For the Advancement Party, an open and active people's church implies the presence of the priest. Does the government think that there are the eight new posts that are needed to strengthen the religious service offer and comply with the Soria Moria declaration – when the need for more priests is so infinitely greater? We've known this for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1352	I am pleased that the representative Thorsen is concerned about the Soria Moria declaration, but, as the representative knows for sure, the Soria Moria declaration is a government programme for a four-year period. I am pleased that we now – for the first time in a long time – have been able to strengthen the service. I hope you can see that there is a signal that the government wants to bet on better performance in those parts of the country that have large population growth, and where there is a need to relieve the clergy by not having so many people in the parishes per clergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1357	I am aware that the service is facing major recruitment challenges. But it is unlikely that the government's financial investment in the services is helping to resolve this. In order to qualify for equal pay, there is a need for funds to be made available for remuneration. The Church itself claims that new recruitment to the services may be as challenging as the need for more performance. So it's not useful to recruit if you don't have the money to cover the positions. The Norwegian Church has for many years had appropriations for several performances as one of its heart matters to the government. The question to the Minister is: If the Church can show good recruitment, will the Council of State provide the necessary remuneration, or does she have good advice on where to take the money from?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1364	I have registered that the Progress Party in its budget proposal wants to significantly strengthen the performance service. It is certainly possible to spend this money on the Church in a very sensible way. But what I do not agree with the Progress Party is that this increase is financed by cutting out educational resources for Sami kids, halving grants for cultural schools and cutting out important contributions to adult education. I believe that the need for performance services must also be seen in the broad context. We're constantly going to have to balance it. We have done that in this budget, we have increased the allocation of services. I'm glad. We're going to work and look at the needs that are, and then we're going to reconcile it with the totality of our budgets – even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1371	When we started examining the 2011 budget, an overall opposition was concerned that no resources had been put into the settlement of the Information Service Fund. Now I can understand that the government parties were not involved in the comment – they had well been given a hint that there would be a case. We will deal with it a little later today, when the settlement of the Information Service fund begins. It's good that it's now going on. However, what the Committee points out and which is important is that this work be completed and the settlement completed. Can the Council of States now confirm that this will take place quickly, so that one can complete the case of the Information Society Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1378	As the representative Harberg has registered, we have proposed an allocation of 320 million. kr to compensate for the losses incurred by the OVF in 2009 and 2010. Then we're working on the regulatory issues that relate to the agreements and losses that OVF had to have after 2011. We will come back to that once we have been given the necessary clarifications of the legal situation. In addition, of course, we will make a change in the law relating to the Information Society's fund. I intend to submit this in connection with the presentation of a new burial law. It will come to Stortinget after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1385	Before Stortinget took a vacation last summer, we also had this case up. Then the Council of State promised that they would work out the calculations and calculations relating to the settlement of the Information Society's fund. As I know, there is good competence, both legal and mathematical, in this city. I am very surprised that it will take so long to figure out what this settlement is going to be on. Can the Council of State explain to us in the Storting why it takes so much time to calculate a mathematical calculation, and what's lost because of the wrong decision in the Storing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1392	We've been through a lot of rounds with the Information Society's fund, among other things. the number of fasteners which have been wound up during that period. We now have a number of about 1 150 fixtures. We are still in dialogue to find out when transfers have occurred, when losses have occurred. This has been a complicated matter; we have spent a lot of time getting a proper basis before going to Stortinget and asking for a grant. I believe that in this case it must be right, when we are going to present such a large appropriation to Stortinget, that we are sure that we have the necessary background material, so that we do not go to Stortinget with incorrect information.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1399	The councils were in the church buildings and the situation of these around our country. We don't have many castles, fortresses, etc., like other European countries have to take care of their architecture and their national heritage, but we have a lot of church buildings. And it's very bad, especially in terms of fire safety and burglary, in many of these churches. My question is whether we can afford to let these churches lapse, and whether we think they'll be able to win through when municipal politicians sit and prioritise in the fight between hospitals, schools and church buildings. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the state now has a special responsibility to enter a spice layer, so that we can put these churches in proper condition. Will the Council of State be involved in creating a national action plan to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1408	I am concerned with good fire safety and good maintenance of our church buildings. I agree with the representative of Dagrun Eriksen that this is a challenge. Then I am glad that an improved municipal economy has made many municipalities able to make some great promises regarding their maintenance. In 2005, the municipalities spent 200 million. kr for the maintenance of their church buildings. Now the amount is approx. 650 million. kr. So it's been a huge increase. It is also shown that in 2005 there were 33 of the country’s Joint Councils which had construction projects and maintenance projects of more than 1 million. kr. In 2009 it was 90. I think we need to use the knowledge that we now have, that we allow the councils and municipalities to work together to plan based on the report that we have developed. There is a good basis for municipalities to draw up good plans together with the joint councils on the maintenance situation. Then we make a significant effort by providing funds through the interest-rate compensation scheme. That's our response to the municipalities to this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1421	Rapid technological development and globalisation characterise all parts of society. The internationalisation of business involves stronger competition and skills and quality requirements. Growth in new technologies, communication and information processing leads to changes in forms of cooperation and creates new opportunities for cultural contact and influence. Traditional values and norms are challenged by societal changes and in the meeting between different cultures. In many areas, the national unit is on the wane front in relation to new international and regional structures. For this reason, the Progress Party is in favour of the amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, which is designed to ensure that the qualification requirements both nationally and internationally become similar. The Progress Group believes that it is necessary to develop and facilitate the participation of more people in the different learning venues that provide skills for adults as well. In this way, adult training through the Lifelong Learning Programme is of great importance. There are various reasons why the need for adult education is increasing. For health reasons, some people need to be re-trained. Many jobs employ new technologies, traditional workplaces are closed down, and this leads to job change. The Progress Party believes that online education needs to be put into much more use within many education systems. This type of education could also provide much more teachers with a good level of further education. The party of progress is in complete disagreement with the economic policy of the government in relation to the vocational schools. Several counties, including Rogaland, are now cutters in maritime vocational education. The consequences in health schools can be dramatic. Approximately 600-700 places of study may disappear in the worst cases, according to the University of Folkeuniversitet. The danger of the county prioritizing its own schools at the expense of important private providers is increasing. Major technical schools may be closed because the counties now have financial responsibility. The party believes that this shows that the funding of the vocational schools must be returned to the state. It is necessary to ask questions as to why the specialised schools, which are the higher education of the professions, which are the only higher education to be financed from municipal and non-governmental budgets. This weakens the status of vocational schools. In addition, there will be greater pressure in universities and colleges. The government’s commitment to nursing training does not aim to meet the needs – it is clear. The Health Directorate's estimates show that in 20 years' time there will be a shortage of 13 000 nurses. The government has found no room for more than 65 new study places. The Progress Party has proposed 160 new places in addition. According to the Rogaland Association of Nurses, the admission of students to the University of Stavanger is increasing without increasing teaching resources accordingly. In addition, it is reported that there is no time to conduct regular examinations. Instead, multiple-choice tests are carried out. This may impair the quality of education. The press release sent out by the government in connection with the church budget created great expectations. «The church budget of the times», it was said. The Norwegian Church is one of the budget winners. A total of 158 million were proposed for the Church. kr. Closer inspection shows that most of the material is actually to be used to comply with previous landfill decisions. Seventy-two million. kr goes to church elections, which are an important part of democratic reform. Trophy training is worth $27 million. kr in the next year's budget, so that the total grant is now approaching 200 million. kr. Nevertheless, the funding is based on previous decisions. The Progress Party proposes an increase of another 8 million. kr, to strengthen the entry by 35 million. Total kr. However, the government has a recognition of the service. For the first time in many years, the budget proposal has added 5 million. kr for new performances. If it's enough for the Vålerenga Church to get a new pastor, I'm not sure, because this will only give eight new positions, and these are already distributed. The Preste Association is asking for $30 million. In Norway, there is one per 3000 members, which means that Norway is in jumbo place in the Nordic region in terms of performance density. This leads to a very high workload on the clergy, as well as to the fact that the parishioners do not receive the follow-up that may be needed. These are probably some of the reasons why many people refuse to become priests. In addition, there are many who are educated as a clergyman, who do not work as a clergyman. For the Advancement Party, it is important to make the best possible arrangements for us to have an open and active people's church that also includes the presence and availability of the priests. That is why we are proposing another 30 million. kr to the pastor’s service. Continued development and investment in ICT and modernisation of member registration can bring great economic savings to the Church. The Progress Party proposes 2 million. kr to do so. The government does not give priority to further ICT work, but still expects more efficiency. Our church buildings need extensive maintenance, fire safety and upgrade. In order to care for the church buildings, the Advance Party proposes another 1 billion. kr in interest-free loans for this purpose. So to the OVF, the Progress Party records that all parties are in favour of full compensation for the losses incurred by the OVF as soon as possible and that this is to be done in consultation with the OVF. Now there may be different perceptions of what is fast, but the Progress Party trusts that the government's willingness to correct the illegalities that have been committed is great, and that the government is therefore able to trust in getting quick and fair compensation that fully compensates for the loss – even if the amount is high. But it's not OVF's fault. Someone might have thought about this before, because at least there was no need for warnings before the famous decision was taken. All batches have expressed joy today in relation to the PISA results. At the same time, it is important from all sides to have even higher ambitions on behalf of the individual student. But it is clear that one must be allowed to be happy, not least on behalf of the students. That's after all they're talking about. Good teachers are clearly important to achieve this. But I want to show that the PISA report and other student studies show that peace and order are very important. There's something the Progress Party has been pushing forward for many, many years, and for which we have actually quite often been sent forth. Now I hope that more people take the importance of order and order seriously. I see that I have some time left. Then I don't want to read Bjørnson. I will read some well-chosen, wise words that were written in 1953 by Anders Lange, but which are equally valid today: «School education aims to provide children with writing, reading and arithmetic as quickly as possible; at the same time, they must be informed of sound knowledge of the working conditions of the various professions. Norwegian National Broadcasting is fully used as a schoolteacher. It deals with geography, natural knowledge, and history. The emphasis is on making the students want practical education and living a healthy life." I think that is actually as topical today as it was in 1953 when it was written, but today we can replace Norwegian National Broadcasting with online education. There is an important part of education in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1466	For the Workers' Party, the school itself is the foundation of our society. It's also the foundation of life for each of us. It's on what we've learned early in life, we're going to keep building out, out of life. That's why I think the PISA results are very happy, because these are the basic skills that PISA measures, which are also going to provide the basis for acquiring new knowledge. Especially reading is important for all other further education. The work for more people to complete secondary education is pre-eminent for our work in this period of school. The government's bet, New GIV, is important to get to this. We're going to spend almost 0.5 billion. Extra kr, in addition to our second school effort, for further education. The organisation and follow-up of the very weakest rivers and good transitions between levels, more relevant and practical professional and cooperation with the social partners in order to provide more apprenticeships are some important things that this initiative contains. But the most important thing to get more through higher education is nevertheless the basic competence. Everything in kindergarten begins an important learning process. What's happening there, plus emphasis on early efforts and adapted training, is what's going to give people the best starting point to manage and get to live the life they want. The link between basic skills and the implementation of secondary education is well documented. The same is true of the link between basic skills and labour relations. For us in the Workers' Party, work is case number one. It means an education system where everyone is given opportunities and where everyone has to be able to get through. The government can do a lot, but it is also important to have a good and positive school. It is also important that we are clear that it requires some of the individual. Bjørnson has said: ‘To live a consistent life, would do something in the world, would seriously – it costs.’ We can accommodate, but good school results don't come of themselves. It comes from hard work from us — from the school owner, from the teacher, but also from the individual student. PISA is also a result of hard work from all of these parties, and many should be grateful that we have reached where we have now. It's not the way the opposition should give the impression that the government is happy to be mediocre and average. We are pleased that we have had a marked progress since 2006, and that the arrows now point upwards, and that we are recognised that the kind of policy we have chosen offers good opportunities to build on. We're glad we've raised ourselves considerably, and the researchers say we're on the right track, unlike for example. Sweden, which pursues the policies of Hanekamhaug and Lien in its party programme. But we still have challenges. I agree with Lien. ‘The Navarone guns’ should definitely enter Norwegian school, but it may not be easy to get the boys to read as much as the girls, for as Bjørnson should have said: ‘Young cocks always read in secret.’ Petter Skarheim, the education director, said at the press conference on Tuesday that PISA shows us that cohesive classes are what gives us the greatest opportunity to lift both the top level and the bottom level. Then we cannot conduct a policy as the Progress Party wants, with more segregation, more division and more privatisation. Finally, Mette Hanekamhaug's tribute of the 1st. Petter Northug is also a result of latitude. Our best footballers are a result of the sport. You have to bet widely to reach the top. But it sounds like we don't have one in Norway, the way Hanekamhaug talks. The entire committee has been at Harvard and has met Norwegian ones who are studying at the world's best university. Is this despite the Norwegian school system? Despite the Norwegian school system, are we the world's best nation on Deep Sea Drilling? I think it is sad that the Progress Party is taking the time to talk nice Norwegians and our country down in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1491	If Bjørnson has not said that, I can at least confirm that boys are also reading in secret. Which of us has not used the flashlight under the dune – so it may be smoother! The 2011 budget must be said to be a budget that goes on and on. For some, this is good. For primary schools there are still large gaps. That's not good. For research, this is the worst budget in ten years. It's tragic. For higher education there is a budget to continue as before, and it is not deleted well. Feedbacks are that institutions are able to drain the water but do not have the opportunity to develop or lift the quality of the water. When a threshing water remains liquid, but has no direction or propulsion. The others are leaving you. It is not a good situation for the country which, according to the Prime Minister, has almost as slogans: knowledge trumps. Yes, knowledge trumps, and therefore knowledge must be a field of activity. We in the right are concerned that the budget should be included and point out directions for the future. We want to clarify the areas of investment, we want to inspire, and we want to give predictability. Therefore, there are no significant differences between the 2010 Right Alternative Budget and what we have presented for 2011. Education and research also receive clear signals and an increase of well over 1 billion in this round. kr. I'm worried. None of the challenges ahead of us in higher education has been addressed by the government. The challenges are not de minimis issues that can be solved in the backroom or out in the institutions. That is why the management of universities and colleges, opposition parties and individual representatives of government parties are asking for a debate to clarify a direction for the sector. How do we want the structure of the sector to be in the future? The means of cooperation and coordination are distributed without objectives and meaning, and the sector is somewhat confused and wondering how to use the funds. Should it be less university? Or are we going to develop A and B universities? Should several universities be established – universities of the kind that are not financed in any way in relation to their expectations, especially in the field of research? Should a group of subjects at fewer colleges? Or should a spread it as much as possible? How should the quality and competence of the many and diversified professional environments be ensured? Now, the Council of State must take the initiative of a political debate which can clarify and provide inspiration for the development of higher education and which can clarify how resources are to be channelled. The second major challenge relates to the number of study places. Time and again, we have called for a plan to increase the number of places to study, which can take account of the increase that the government itself has pointed out in several cases. There is no plan. Budget decisions increase the grant by some new places and that is good, but it does not solve the challenge. There is no predictability and planning possibility. Universities are already flooded and the quality of education is threatened. This is also clearly notified by the responsible managers. The council must see the seriousness. We need a plan. The government must have a plan. I have noticed that the Council of State is constantly pointing to the international perspective we need in higher education. We agree with that. The challenge, however, is that the words and calls of the Council of State are not followed up with incentives in the budget. At the same time, when the Council of State encourages more people to apply for study abroad, including as part of the challenge of sufficient places of study, it must listen to the clear signals from ANSA that changes in funding will make it attractive for more people to leave. The opposition parties have for a number of years strengthened these positions in their budgetary work. As I said at the outset, it is possible for the water sector to drain with the 2011 budget submitted. I urge the Council of State to put the challenges I have mentioned here on the agenda, so that the Storting can say which direction the university and higher education sectors will take when they move forward. Such predictability will facilitate planning. We must ensure the quality of higher education, ensure the follow-up of the individual student and provide the next generations with a basis of competence that enables them to impart the necessary knowledge to us in order to be at the forefront of a national and international knowledge society. Finally, I would just like to make a few comments on the proposal from the Trene Skei Grande and the Left. The right has previously voted against such proposals, but is today going to support it, simply because we have seen that of things that have come to the surface lately, it is most necessary to focus on this and point to the need for academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1510	In 2011, the appropriations for research and innovation will be close to one third of the budget envelope for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. It's not for no reason. In order to carry out our administrative tasks, we need continuous knowledge-building. If Norway is to become the world’s leading maritime nation, we need to be able to ensure the most basic conditions for Norwegian seafood, namely a clean sea and sustainable management of fishing resources and aquaculture. If we can't guarantee it, the basis for the entire seafood industry is destroyed, an industry that provides jobs to people along the coast, and that provides 37 million healthy meals to the world's population on a daily basis. In the suspension of this budgetary procedure, the KUF Committee stresses the importance of environmental research. It shall ensure the basis for the development of all production and products within acceptable sustainability, environment, animal welfare and safe food. I am very pleased that the committee is raising this up, because this is the real focus of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Research. About 75 pst. of the research funds available to us goes for these purposes. We continue to build up knowledge of how best to manage and harvest fish and other marine resources. Good administrative research requires that we conduct a total marine environmental monitoring. In line with the Marine Resource Act, we are working to manage stocks and ecosystems in the context. There is a strong demand for knowledge and data on these contexts. Still, there's a lot we don't know about the complex life in the ocean. The Marine Research Institute is well in the process of developing multi-population management. Bald and cod in the Barents Sea are already managed in the context. The knowledge base is now being used to provide ecosystem-based allowances councils also for the main pelagic key species in the Norwegian Sea. We're dividing by 90 pst. of our fish stocks with other countries. It goes without saying that international cooperation in marine research is a prerequisite for good governance overall. A major priority in 2011 will be the development of a major European research programme for marine-related issues, Healthy and Productive Seas and Oceans. Norway is one of the initiators of this programme, which is expected to play a major role in European cooperation in marine research. Follow-up to the sustainability strategy for the aquaculture industry is a high priority in 2011. Research environments are developing methods to measure environmental impacts, so that acceptable environmental footprint limits can be set. Particularly important in this context are issues such as genetic impact between farmed fish and wild fish, disease and spread of infection. Leprosy is a particularly important field of research. Norwegian and German researchers are soon in the process of surveying the genome of the salmon. This will mean that we are an important step forward towards new treatments and perhaps a vaccine. From other key research areas of sustainability, I will also mention alternative feed materials, maritime food safety and the large field of the positive effects on human health of eating seafood. Research under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is very far-reaching. Today, I have focused on environmental research for administration. It's going to lay the groundwork for us to live on the ocean's resources, not just next year, but in the generations to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1534	This is a debate that is about very much different from the research that the Council of State has to deal with, and that is why I think there is reason to give credit to the Council of State for actually prioritizing her presence here anyway. The research carried out under the direction of the Minister for Fisheries is of fundamental importance for the settlement of the entire coast, which was also the subject of the Council of State itself. To do marine research, you are usually dependent on having a boat, or preferably a few more. One depends on having top quality, laboratory infrastructure on board the vessels, and not least that the boats, at least some of the boats we use, actually tolerate ice, which in sum makes this terribly expensive. The boats must also be at sea in order to be able to conduct marine research – we are not going to conduct port research. That is why I want to focus on the comment that the Committee has also made this year. We want marine research to have a stronger role to play in increasing cooperation, so that we get more sailing days, and perhaps not so much focus on more boats. How will the Council of State deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1545	First, I want to thank you for the honor. I think it's rewarding to be in the Storting, anyway. I do not conceal that I wish that more people were a bit concerned with the field of research that I run, but I am at least glad that today we have a little interruption from other important debates. As far as the operation of research vessels is concerned, I am pleased that the Committee has taken note of the important role that the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea in relation to the coordination of the largest State research vessels. This is a collaboration with several institutes, dating back to the early 1990s, when the University of Tromsø and the Marine Research Institute started working together, then using the research vessel «Jan Mayen». It has further evolved very well. I'm very pleased, because that's what the representative Lien says, that having a research vessel in turn costs a lot of money. The Wicked Committee is an important body for further development of that cooperation, and I hope we will succeed in that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1552	I'm very happy that the Council of State gives the answer she gives. My intention is that we get up the number of sailing days, and then it gets the consequences it must have for the number of boats. I have the impression that there is sometimes some prestige in having a boat of my own. I'm glad that the Council of State will pay attention to what an overall committee says about it, and that in a way, emphasis is placed on the fact that we have the ships at sea, and not necessarily on the number of ships. However, the institutional sector in Norway is very different. Internally, too, the institutions, which are somehow financed by the Ministry of Fisheries' budget, are quite different from how to finance, for example. with regard to the share of basic funding. I am of the opinion that the objective of this whole sector is that we should have a more competitive environment. Is there any government council also concerned with her institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1559	As far as the research vessel is concerned, I fully agree that the number of sailing days is important. So having a co-ordination — and even better coordination — of all State research vessels is important. There is also an important role for the National Take Committee to see things in context. With regard to funding and institutions, I can't see that there's a slight misunderstanding, or a small degree of injustice, associated with the administrative authorities in relation to the business institutions. Most of the money spent on the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs budget goes to the administrative authorities – i.e. to the Institute of Marine Research – which is absolutely the largest. In the case of those who are in business, it is at least not possible to compare them with each other. It is quite obvious that the administrative research institutes should not compete where the economic operators are. In the list that I've been given, where the nutrition institutes are compared, it looks like they're being treated relatively equally. I could have provided that table, but we can do that afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1568	I also think it is very positive that the Minister for Fisheries is involved in this debate and that she is concerned about the research that is taking place in the important marine sector. Still, we are well there that the Norwegian research effort in agriculture is significantly greater than that in the marine sector, despite the fact that the marine sector is one of our most important and largest industries, including in terms of exports. Much of the sector’s research must therefore be directed at enterprises. I wonder whether the Minister for Fisheries agrees with the Right that it needs to be facilitated to make it more attractive for companies in Norway to carry out their own research, for example. by expanding and strengthening the TaxFUNN scheme, which is the most important for the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1575	The representative of Warloe is quite right in saying that it is important that we also get business even more on the job in research funding in the marine sector. The situation in the marine sector is, of course, characterised by very many small – sometimes tiny – and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, they do not have the same financial muscles to finance research. What I now see with great joy is that at least the larger companies contribute greatly. However, in order to address the challenges posed by these small businesses, we have established the Research Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture, which is now also taking great advantage of the fact that prices, not least in the salmon sector, have risen, so that they will receive more funding for next year. I also notice that the SkattenFUNN is a good tool that the marine sector is also using.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1583	In recent times, there have been some discussions around it with breeding and awarding concessions, anchors and miscellaneous. The end of a part of the process was that four additional concessions were granted, which actually led to me now going to this debate and taking a reply to the minister. The fees for these concessions have now been allocated to research. You might need it if you see the debate that has taken place in agriculture and salmon and things like that lately. Not very long ago, there was a clarification meeting between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of the Environment in which they were to try to gather, so that they could be a little more factual in this debate – I think the goal was. In retrospect, it may not work as if you were doing it, as scientists from the Marine Research Institute have stood up with an opinion when they're on government pay, and then a different opinion exactly the same day, in the afternoon, because they have positions in various councils. Is the Council comfortable with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1592	What the representative Bakke-Jensen is addressing is a very interesting debate, not just linked to single actors, but to the fact that we have some institutes that have to manage the Institute's opinion. Then, of course, active and committed researchers also participate in the public debate, and I appreciate that very much. They are included in this case in a scientific council. But what I have to deal with in everyday life is the Institute's advice to the Department of Management. I have absolutely no problems or challenges with that. And then we're going to be happy with the active and committed researchers, which I'm going to base on, based on knowledge and research results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1599	There is no attempt to direct research, but there are different opinions at different institutions. That should be healthy and a sign that we have healthy, good research environments in Norway. But these very cases are a little special, because here there are scientists who front a sentence on behalf of their institute, and then you allow yourself to be civilly engaged in various research councils. So in the afternoon, or this weekend, you can allow yourself to be critical of both the research methods that our institutes use, and the results that our institutes claim to be correct. This is – if you follow the Council of State, which I want to do, to deal with the facts we get from our institutes – which makes it a little difficult for politicians to navigate, I think. That's what I'm wondering if the Council of State might be able to elaborate a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1604	I also fully agree that having a discussion based on research and competence is important. A total consensus would be a disaster, in the sense that then one would not bring research and knowledge development further. The fact that we also have engaged researchers who participate in the debate with the background to the knowledge they possess, I think is very good. But in the very example that I think the representative is thinking about here, it's a single researcher employed by the Institute of Marine Research who is in a scientific selection, not as the employee of the Institute of Marine Research, but with the competence he personally possesses. When he spoke and took part in the public debate, it was not as a HI researcher, but as a member of that committee. I have a lot of understanding that this can be confusing. It's been confusing to me in other contexts, where I see public debaters titulating with professors here and there and, of course, getting a completely different weight on their posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1611	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1614	The Nordic region is Norway's most important strategic area of activity. That was stated by the government in its declaration of accession. In our Northern Region Strategy, we say that it oversees the objective of creating increased knowledge, activity and presence in the north and laying the foundation for sustainable economic and social development over the years to come. This strategy has been followed up by ‘New building blocks in the north’, which is the next step in the government’s Northern Region strategy. In the areas off the coast of Norway and Russia we find: some of the world's largest fish resources, large oil and gas fields, an enormous potential for marine bio-prospecting North-East Passage, the shortest sea route to Austen, is opening due to climate change It's a part of the country with a lot of big -- yeah, maybe a lot of possibilities. The extraction of valuable components from biological material is a rapidly increasing industry. Basic precepts are competence, ideas, capital and patience and, of course, biological deficiency and competence to identify organisms. This field is becoming a major field of activity both in Norway and in other countries. Norway has pointed out marine bioprospection as an area where we have special intentions and possibilities. It's in the extreme environments a think a find particularly interesting organisms with very special features. Therefore, the Arctic and the North have been pointed out as a bet area. Nutritional development depends to a large extent on close interaction between academia, business and tools. This interaction has been shown to work most optimally in the densely integrated clusters. Major demands have been made for significant multidisciplinary knowledge and long-term research-based efforts in order to go whole-time from research to a finished product. It is very important to note that these great possibilities are linked to the sea and the marine environment. Responsible value creation and management of these resources require good cooperation with Russia. Norway has experience and tradition of cooperating with Russia on the management of fishing resources in the Barents Sea in a very good way. There are good relations in research and fisheries management between Norway and Northern Russia. This is a very good basis for further cooperation. North Russia has a very high level of competence in many different maritime industries, such as fisheries, maritime and maritime defence. However, Russia needs access to modern technology and expertise in the maritime industries. Along the entire Norwegian coast, there is an environment that has different maritime competences, which will be very important in future cooperation with Russia on the development of the North. If Norway is to be an interesting partner in the north, we need to get to the best we can in the maritime industries. It is therefore important to mobilise and put into service competence along the whole coast. These environments are world-leading in many areas of maritime activity. In the first row, include fishing, shipbuilding, seismics, oil and gas extraction and offshore service activities. Norway already has a lot of the skills it needs to get to the north. It is therefore very important that a thing be done to establish arenas where research and business can meet and develop ideas and cooperation within these fields. Finally, a new idea or invention will not be an innovation until it is translated into practical action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1655	It's our workforce that's our most important resource. It's not the stock exchange or the oil fund we're going to live on. It's each other's work we live by and we're going to live on. And then investment in education of current and future labour is our main investment in future well-being and the future economy. We're going to have challenges related to the demography of the years to come. Our main political challenge is to get more hands at work, so that we can manage and further develop the welfare state and address the needs of the future with an increasingly older population. To do that, we're going to make people work longer. We need to make working life more inclusive and get more from passive benefits into activity. Too many people today are out of work and want to enter, but experience a job that doesn't have room for them. It is wasted on human resources, and it is also the main single cause of living conditions problems. If we lose people on the road, yes, the costs are huge, not just for the individual, but for society as a whole. We need these people. When we work in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs just to include more people by preventing long-term unemployment, preventing sick leave, preventing disability, and so on, we depend on our success in all other areas and in the field of education in particular. We know a lot about context. We know that if we're going to make the workline work, we're totally dependent on the educational line working. The major decline in secondary education is one of the factors that create the most problems for people further in life, and that is the factor in creating the most social inequality in our society. When we look at the young long-term unemployed and the young disabled who are over 30 years old, we see a clear common denominator: drop-out from school. So in order to meet society's skills needs, to prevent unemployment, to prevent poor living conditions and to ensure a safe place for the individual in the workplace, and to stop school dropouts. The decline in unskilled jobs is dramatic and will continue in the coming years. The unskilled share of the labour market will fall further and by 2025 is around 3,5 pst. according to the SSB. In other words, in 2025, there will be a need for 100,000 fewer workers with only basic training compared to 2004. The conclusion is therefore simple, but tough: not getting education would mean getting outside more than 95 pst. of the labour market. The field of education is therefore essential to ensure the future not only for individuals but for the whole of the labour market and society as a whole. But education as a factor is not just crucial to securing tomorrow's labour force. Education is also the key to preserving today's labour force. In our work of stimulating more people to work longer and with what we know about today's and tomorrow's working life, where people are constantly changing jobs, unlike in the past, where people chose a profession and basically stood out in that life, and we depend on good continuing training and retraining opportunities so that people are equipped for a working life and the labour market changing. Focusing more strongly on continuing education will therefore be an important step in supporting the line of work and keeping more people working throughout their lives, and it is crucial to keep the seniors in the labour market. Our goal is a labour market where age is an irrelevant factor. Therefore, all the government does in the field of education, is essential for the results and the need for action in the field of the Labour and Social Committee. Therefore, the fight against non-response and work on lifelong learning is also one of the main tasks of the government. And I'm proud to have a government that comes with concrete measures against non-response on a broad front, that grants money to implement it, and that sets out concrete targets for higher school implementation. We've managed to achieve that kind of goal in areas before, and we're going to do it again. It's about succeeding as a society by getting more people involved, and it's about solving the big welfare challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1674	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1677	In this post, I will focus on the committee's responsibilities for the Church. The Norwegian Church has had some clear challenges in recent years. In my opinion, this has led to the vitalization of the Church's organization, and it has led to innovation. Such challenges with such results are good. Now I see that many in the media over the last few weeks in connection with a special case have suggested that the Church is hopelessly old-fashioned, while others support the power of action and clarity. Now it's not the part of the Church we're going to deal with, but I think it's in place to remind you that the Church has taken on seriously the challenges they've been facing, and a new and stronger democratic organization is growing. In the right, it is important to value the work, among other things. with compensation for meetings of members of the Central Councils, and provided funds for this in its alternative budget. The Church has made structural changes at the same time as the ongoing work goes on. It has been particularly important to continue work on the reform of faith training. The Church is also to have the honor of its efforts here, and for us in the Right, it is very important that the government follows up with the necessary resources to carry on. The 2011 budget is at the bottom of the escalation adopted by the Stortinget. The biggest challenge, however, is that the Church has enough to provide the services it needs to fill. Should the Church have the power to be an open and active people's church, it is important with good and motivated priests in the ministry. The signals we get about worn-out performances that, in addition to their own tasks, have to take temporary jobs in unoccupied jobs, worry us. For this reason, it has been important for the Right to strengthen the budget, not least in view of the possibility of establishing a senior policy that could increase the number of seniors in the service. We know that this will remedy part of the situation. Finally, I would like to point out that we think there is an unreasonable difference between the transfers to Nidarosdomen and Oslo Cathedral. Oslo Cathedral carries out many important national tasks and needs to be accommodated with increased resources to enable this. An overall opposition points to unfairness. I'm referring to the fact that the right in its alternative budget has set a million dollars. kr extra to Oslo Cathedral.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1690	The representatives of Warloe and Harberg, on the right, paint a very dramatic picture of the R & D effort in Norway. Let's think about the numbers behind this. The government's investment in the sector means that we use 0.94 pst. GDP. If we look at what the right hand bet will lead to, that means we're going to use approx. 0.96 pst. GDP. So the big, dramatic distinction between the Right, which then bets "offensive", and the red-green that kind of doesn't bet at all, on the contrary, is no bigger than that when we look at the numbers that hide behind this. To go a little further in this picture, we know from the statistics that Norway is at the top of the world in terms of public investment in R & D. It is in business – and then I have absolutely included the companies in which the state is heavy on the owner’s side – that we stand out from many other countries in the world by spending too little. Let's have that kind of neatness in the debate before we talk too much down on the public effort here. Then I wonder that the representative Henning Warloe today wants to see England. There they have now frozen the R & D allocation, i.e. It's going to fall annually. There they've cut into higher education by 40 pst, and they're increasing school money. Is this what should be the ideal for Norway? No, no, no. I really don't think so, either. So a little over to this that Harberg was into in terms of structure and interaction in the university and higher education sectors. It is an important and interesting debate in which both the red-green and absolute political leadership are involved and will continue to participate and develop. For me it is then more natural right now to ask the question back to the Right. Right ask what we mean, and what does the Right mean? Are the Right ready to centralise higher education and research more? Is it in the question from Harberg that the Right will weaken the development force that we all know lies in having a higher education and research activity, in its state and in its region? Does that mean that the right will have more national top-down governance of our higher education sector? These are questions that would be exciting and useful for us to get answers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1701	I was going to talk about something else, but I'm going to start by answering Aksel Hagen. I don't think it's right that we draw a dramatic picture of the research and development situation in Norway, but we're sorry that Norway misses the opportunity to bet when we just have the unique possibilities we have purely financially. As the Director of the Research Council said when the budget was presented, ‘The government does not seize the opportunity’. We can definitely connect to that. So Aksel Hagen says that what is primarily the challenge in Norway is weak research efforts in the business community. Yeah, that's right. We have a strong public commitment relative to it, but we have a weak business commitment, and therefore the Right has repeatedly proposed to strengthen and strengthen and extend the TaxFUNN scheme, for example, which is a major success among the companies and was introduced in due course by the Bondevik II Government. But on that track there is no SV at all, so how SV intends to strengthen the research effort of the business community is still a mystery. I'm going to say something about a topic that's taken a lot of care of me, even before the PISA study came. The PISA study confirms inter alia: that there is a big and worrying difference between boys and girls in their performance at school. Guys are increasingly losing school, not just in Norway, but it is now mainly Norway that we have to worry about. So the last PISA study shows that 21 pst. For reading skills, some researchers say that you are functionally illiterate, while only 8 pst. of the girls are at the same level. It's positive that we've been raised many, but we see big, big differences. I had this as a topic in an interpellation here in the Storting in June this year, and it was striking how all of these differences that we in the Right are worried about. It happened in post-intervention posts, and the Minister of Knowledge also devalued these differences. So they were not very big. Now she's all of a sudden very worried and is going to connect the OECD. As I pointed out in my interpellation, it is likely that we need specific measures for the boys who are struggling. Recent brain research, among other things, has shown that there are some eye-catching differences between boys and girls. For example, six-year-old boys are only able to concentrate half the time the girls at the same age are able to do. Several municipalities have tried specific measures for boys who are struggling and have good results. Kautokeino Municipality is an example of that. But these trials must end, because they are not allowed under Norwegian law. My call to the Minister of Knowledge is to let municipalities and schools try out these attempts instead of going the long way about the OECD.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1715	I am pleased that the representative Tord Lien is busy by the Workers' Party focusing on quality in research and higher education. What I focused on in my previous post was that academic freedom is poorly owned as a political governance tool in the context of budgeting. But I need to make it clear that academic freedom is, of course, a premise for all research. He shall be the very foundation upon which the research will depend. My point, which I am pleased that the representative Lien gave me the opportunity to repeat, is that the right-hand side uses academic freedom as an excuse for not wanting to give a steering signal to the sector. Otherwise, I am very uncertain as to what the Right really means about academic freedom, after hearing the question from the representative of Bakke-Jensen to the Council of State. I would like to remind you that funding and more money, as the right-hand side all the time points to, is just the fourth most important criterion for improving the quality of the sector. The representative Bente Thorsen kisses in his post the dust of Anders Lange's views from 1953. It is obvious that he still characterises the Progress Party's education policy. If it is an unparalleled advantage for the Norwegian school, I am a little more in doubt about it. That being said, I would like to remind you that Marcus Thrane and the workers' movement were in fact already 105 years before the first education programme was created. Under the right side's control of the school was the time of turmoil around the school. There was anxiety and bad economy in the school owner, and there were concerns about issues related to the privatisation and commercialisation of the school. No wonder this has led to poorer conditions for both learners and students. Now the negative trend is reversed. As everyone knows, Norway has moved from a bad 19th place to a ninth place in reading the last PISA. We are well above the average in the OECD and the second best in the Nordic region. There is clear progress in mathematics, and the OECD points out that Norway is among the countries with the greatest progress in science. The number of elephants with weak reading skills is fast down. That's important, because there's peace in the school now. We've had a targeted effort based on knowledge of what actually works. We're no longer experimenting with the school and the students. It's definitely not like the representative Aspaker said, that the school is now going in the direction that the Right points to. The right-hand side will have more competition, privatisation, leveling and school changes. This will warn researchers, teachers, school owners and students against this. But do you think that helps, good president?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1730	Henning Warloe has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1733	I think it was nice to hear that the representative Tor Bremer has now moderated his view of academic freedom considerably. So at least there's something that helps, that's a debate. But the Workers' Party is also historically struggling with a terrible instrumental view of research and also in some areas of society. The parallel of the cultural area and the art area is very striking. What worries me is that this increase will be dealt with by the Left's proposals for academic freedom on 16 February of this year, and a unanimous increase called on the Minister of Research to take more action to clarify the requirements for academic freedom in the institute sector. Nothing happened after that, until the Evening Post began reporting after reporting to reveal the various cases in which the ministry has attempted to override research institutes and just academic freedom. Then something happened, but not before the evening post wrote about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1740	In the school debate, it has taken a strange form of logic. When the opposition talks about challenges related to lack of reading skills, real science challenges, etc., it's black paint and misery description, but when the position includes the council itself, is on this pulpit and talks about the same things, it's not black paint. Then you talk about what's important in school. This is debate technique at its worst. I wish we could put it behind us and agree that Norwegian school is actually served that Stortinget also addresses the challenges that are actually in school. So I think I'm going to say to Councillor Kristin Halvorsen that no matter how much she's yelling at this pulpit, right doesn't scare herself to silence in terms of fighting further the fight for quality in school and to make sure that we have a school that meets all students, whether they're in trouble or they're in the one-sided. For all students, they have a right to be met and to have challenges that make them reach out to their very extremes. They need it for themselves, but it also needs society. When I visited the new Hamsun Center this summer, I noticed a quote from Hamsun: «I've been able to raise myself Step by Step After life: I have climbed up life, I have not gone away. This may be the experience of many schools and education today. But there's no way out, because if we're going to be something, and if we're going to get the job we're dreaming about, we have to put in a portion of effort, and everything might not show up as easily all the time. So for further training of teachers. I think it's very important that we act now while there's still time to act and to avoid a crisis, as the Statistical Central Bureau actually says we can steer into. Then I wonder if it is not possible to change the system of continuing training of teachers more quickly. We had good success in the way it was done when the Knowledge Lift was introduced. Then the municipalities sat in the driver's seat. The municipalities cooperated. They signed agreements with universities and colleges, got many teachers together, and it was a great success. So now there's 1,000 places available. At the same time, we know that a lot of teachers experience that they need professional replenishment. It is therefore not a good idea for Norwegian teachers to present it in such a way that it may take 20–30 years before they receive the offer of the continuing training that they feel they need today. Nor is it good news to Norwegian students that they have to deal with teachers who may not be as motivated as they could have been if they had received a better follow-up related to continuing education. I again challenge the Council of State whether it is not possible to take a higher rate in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1759	Knowledge gives growth power. We have to create more, if we're going to distribute more, is the center party's starting point. We need to strengthen research and development so that we can convert from fossil to renewable energy, to energy savings, to greener business and longer value chains. Competence and research are essential for Norway to assert itself in international competition. The fight for the good minds goes not only between regions in Norway but increasingly with other countries. Competence is an important area for our long-term capacity for value creation and innovation. It is essential that Norway is attractive as a place of study and work for the best students and international excellence. It is also important that enterprises are encouraged in different ways to further train their workforce and develop their skills. At the bottom there must be a course of education from primary school to university, highlighting the importance of knowledge, including practical knowledge and making clear demands and expectations. Nutritional research and commercialisation of research results must be given priority. We need a strong public commitment to research, but at the same time we need to go more with business, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The public sector can be better exploited for innovation. The public sector has a high potential to contribute to increased innovation through its activities. This can be done through deliberate thinking of purchases and acquisitions, increased competition and tenders. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have their own research departments, and public efforts against industry for research purposes must be focused primarily on this target group. TaxFUNN is a good tool that needs to be further developed so that more people can put it into use – not least so that the smallest enterprises can benefit from research skills for innovation and development of skills in the enterprise and community. Universities and higher education institutions need to be strongly promoted for fruitful cooperation with industry, and there needs to be good and strong research environments in all parts of the country, where they are encouraged to cooperate with enterprises. In this context, the regional research funds are very important. Knowledgelift Nord is important as part of the North Area Initiative. Travel and arctic technologies have been selected as focus areas, where the environment of competence and the Nordic business community cooperates on this topic. This is an exciting theme, which can give strength to Norway in new areas. This effort must also be considered to be extended to new areas in view of the potential for value creation in North Norway in a number of areas. The struggle for labour continues. Future value creation will be built on research and technology to a much greater extent. That is why I fully agree with the government that we are going to build up under research and education institutions throughout the country. That's when we build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1785	Before the red-greens took over, state councillor Kristin Halvorsen used to highlight ingrained doves in school as the great evidence of the fallout in school. It may have become less written on the walls of the toilets, and that is of course good, but the fundamental problem in Norwegian school is not the toilets. The fundamental problem is that one in five students is not able to write anything reasonable on these doves. It is also a problem that one-third of high school students stop or fail to pass the exam. Why is that so? I hope the Council of State can give an answer to that. It started so well. As one of the first countries in the world, Denmark-Norway introduced compulsory basic education for all as early as 1739. It has meant so much that abilities and efforts, and not Father and Mother's wallet, would get more to say for the individual's future. A good primary school is the difference between a class society and a society with opportunities for everyone. Therefore, we cannot allow the school to fail and fail the students. Right is always going to be the public school's leading critic, and hence its very best friend. It is clear that the red-greens have realized that many of their old ideas have been too bad. But they haven't replaced them with any new ones. In the previous period, apples and pears were the big deal. During this period, the idea is that school leave is more important than school time. And I have to say that SV continues to work hard to find other themes to talk about than those that count, such as. more good teachers, more good principals and greater professional requirements for students. It seems that the red-greens have lost faith in their own old school policy, but they don't quite know what to replace it with. For many, their school policy seems to lack direction and commitment, and it lacks a focus on knowledge and quality. The Norwegian school is not today the construction work against the class society that we in the Right want it to be. The knowledge reform must continue with glow, commitment, clarity and a clear idea of what needs to be given priority. It's actually very important that School-Norway gets back the glow and commitment that you had under the Right Government, where you had clear priorities and high demands, and where you were looking at tough challenges. The school needs the Right School Policy — that's what's important now. As proof of that, I can refer to the good results we have in Oslo School.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1798	First of all, I would like to comment a little bit on the history of the previous speaker. Now the story speaks for itself, by the fact that the Right has gone against most school reforms over time. The PISA results show that we're on the right track. I would especially like to thank everyone who works at school, students and parents. Without joint effort, this would not have been possible. I also notice that Finland, with a strong focus on public schools, is doing very well, while Denmark and Sweden, which privatise the school to a large extent, as the Right Party and the Advance Party want to do this to countries, make it worse than the Norwegian Joint School. The success of the Norwegian Joint School is despite the fact that, in particular, the Right Party and the Advance Party have been trying to talk Norwegian school down for years. Characteristics such as ‘cosy school’ have hardly helped to motivate teachers, other employees at school, parents or students. One of the most serious outrages was the profiled politician Sylvi Listhaug of the Progress Party when she characterised Norwegian school in Dagbladet on 21 January 2008 as among others. «a sheltered enterprise» and «smibling school». It is also interesting to note that the opposition has continuously explained previous PISA results with the policies of the red-green parties and the government. Is it our profit when we see progress in these tests? No, the answer, of course, is not that simple. First of all, it's about grassroots, that is. the employees, pupils and parents have jointly lifted the school. In addition, many school owners have taken greater responsibility for the school. Today's red-green government has greatly strengthened the municipality's economy in recent years, rather than strangling and prioritizing tax laws, as was the case in the past. The increased transfers have facilitated the strengthening of the school. I think the progress to some extent may also be due to the government's focus on, among other things. early interventions, homework and several hours, but not least that we have a government that has encouraged the school and grassroots to work together for better results. I think we can go even further, and that everyone can stretch a little bit longer. We have ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian school, but unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party, we believe that each one is developing best within the framework of a strong single school, and that one should not open up to commercialisation and large-scale privatisation of the school. We don't want a competition school, but a school where one takes care of each other, and where each one gets the best use of his abilities. When I hear the representative Hanekamhaug use sports performances as an example that we do not grow soles in Norwegian school, I find it strange. Indeed, the Norwegian school and welfare model shows itself both to give room for growth and to create winners, even though the right side claims the opposite. But unlike the competition society of the Right and the Advance Party, which will create many losers, we are able to focus on everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1813	Svein Harberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1816	I'll give the representative Freddy de Ruiter right in one thing: the story is written. I think it would have been exciting to sit down and read it together, and maybe we'd also have a common perception. The reason I asked for the floor was Aksel Hagen's challenge, and we'd like to take challenges. First of all, I record that I must have an enormous impact, because after a five-minute post, where I had one sentence on research, he thinks I have had a powerful ointment against the research. On the other hand, it may not have been so easy to hear what I said about debates about universities and colleges. He's asking what the Right wants. Right will have the debate that leaders at universities and colleges have called for, that all opposition parties have called for, and that politicians from the position have also called for: a broad and good debate, where we find out together what the Storting will with universities and colleges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1826	The representative Afshan Rafiq was up in the pulpit and made fun of the government's bet on apples and pears, as she called it. She obviously did not get the important connection between nutrition and learning. But it might be interesting to ask the representative something. If you took that money from apples and pears and spent it at school, you would get something like 250 million. kr. But the Right proposes in its budget to cut the taxes on wealth. That alone would mean a cut of $1.8 billion. kr directly in the budget of Oslo. Where did the representative, Afshan Rafiq, think to take that money from? Is it from the elderly, is it from school, or do you have any other suggestions? Is it more important to get that money, or is it more important to get 250 million. kr distributed throughout the country, from something that actually turns out to be a great success? I think that the Right should put away the apple and the pear criticism and rather think twice more about its own tax policy. So Henning Warloe is concerned that boys don't read as well as girls. That's good; that's what I'm concerned about. But that's because I don't understand why the Right is always looking at Sweden and the political solutions that you choose there. The OECD says that the most successful countries are the countries where there is competition for students, where there is level-sharing. The Swedish school community agrees that there may be some reason why Swedish schools have not done so well in the last PISA surveys, nor in this one. Can the Right now soon take on board that policy does not work? The policies that work are unified classes, common learning, and would also like to bet on shorter courses where you are betting on raising students to the right level. But it would have been nice if the Right could finally blow off its privatisation and segregation policy and not, as Erna Solberg did in the throne debate, to make it quite clear that that policy is still on the table if the Right would take over in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1833	I had to ask for the word, because I was somewhat surprised at Bremer's comment on the wisdom word for Anders Lange, which was written in 1953. Is it so to understand that the Workers' Party is not engaged in good counselling, good professional performance in school and good health through physical activity? Could it mean that this activity should be cut now, when everyone realizes how important is physical activity? I interpret Bremer that way. I don't think he represents the Labour Party's view on that matter. So to the Ruiters that the Progress Party talks down the results in Norwegian school: Does the representative really believe that the Progress Party uses the school results in a political game? I am convinced that all the representatives here have the best in mind. I also understand that he believes it is allowed to be a top sportsman, but one should not be top in school context – provide well and be professionally competent at school. Maybe a top sportsman is bad in school, and then we'll be very happy that there's an opportunity to claim in venues other than school. So for the Progress Party, it is important to ensure that everyone is in the best possible position, while at the same time making demands. There have been criticisms that there have been too little demands on the students, we have had far too low expectations for them. There are many people who have asked themselves the question whether this is how we devalue our own kids. I think we have to start seeing this the other way: for me, having respect for someone to make demands. That's the same thing as respecting someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1841	I think these budget debates are a bit influenced by the fact that we are sitting with a majority government and that the Storting has lost a lot of it to be able to participate and influence – from the point of view of the Storting. That's why I need to quote a little bit from a well-known writer, ibsen. He says in "An enemy of the people": ‘The majority shall never have the right on its side.’ I accept that there is no room for the whole purpose paragraph of the Council of State when she has a press conference. But in the cases sent to Stortinget, I have never experienced that the government has needed to save in word or space. But that's not the important thing. What makes me stress this matter a little bit, is that some of the important things we negotiated in these beautiful words that have now come, is that the parental perspective was moved up and got a stronger role. I've done an experiment today. I thought I would sit still and hear: If the Christian People's Party does not mention home-school collaboration and the parental perspective in Norwegian school, will it become a theme? It hasn't been. It worries me. If we don't see how important parent's efforts are when it comes to participation and positive learning, we're going to do a big bomb to the whole school, to our students, and not least to our parents. One of the things we have in the budget today is that the Parental Committee for Primary School, FUG, is getting a huge reduction in its allocation. This happens because they are joined up with the Parenting Committee for kindergartens. But they don't get the whole appropriation that the Parenting Committee for kindergartens had. That is, they're left with big tasks, but not a funding that makes this more than just party speeches. They are often drawn out as someone to be involved in solving home-school cooperation, but they are not given the framework they need to make this work. The last speakers have talked a lot about history. Through knowledge of history, we as a nation can learn not to make the same mistakes again. The Peace and Human Rights Centres all over our country are making a formidable effort to keep track of the history we have in the near past, linked to wars and challenges when human dignity is threatened. But I feel that the government has a quite cool relationship and a cool attitude to these peace and human rights centers. I want a big deal and a government that takes that history building seriously and does what the government parties on the Stortinget have done – namely to be with and increase the allocation to some centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1857	I would first of all like to say that I share Eriksen's commitment to the peace centres – they are doing an incredibly important job. So to the representative Thorsen of the Progress Party: all I did was actually quote one of her party traps. I'd like to take this quote again. It is from Dagbladet on 21 January 2008, where Listhaug characterises Norwegian school as a ‘protected enterprise’ and ‘smischeskole’. It should really speak for itself, I don't think I'm going to go so much deeper into that matter. The progress party has a clearing job with itself. To the representative Harberg I would like to say, yes, I would like to sit down with the Right and read history. It's going to be a great pleasure to me. I'll take some little glimpses, and then we can go a little bit deep afterwards, if that's desirable. As far as I remember to have read, the Right in the Midwar period voted against the School of Unity – which was a powerful tool against the class society that was just represented by the school at that time. One voted against the expansion of primary school on several occasions, I think almost all of the occasions. But we can do that a little bit in depth. One also voted against ensuring that all three-year higher education or professional letters, also known as Reform 94. So we can probably find a lot of nice reading material if we sit down together and read school history. I'd like that. At the end of the day, I just want to clarify the differences – the red-green government and the school policy of the red-green parties versus especially the Right Party and the Advance Party. It's that we don't want grades far down in high school. We do not want ranking, and we do not want competition focus, privatisation and commercialisation. We believe that there are bad ways to get a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1868	Now it was good that there was a historian in the pulpit. However, I think I can come back to everything the Workers' Party has voted in favour from the 1930s until today, at a later date. I want to address what both the representative Tajik and the representative Bremer say about the Progress Party and the Right. The right person is told that they are distributing money without purpose and meaning. I'm going to frame what we prioritise in education and research: 5 million. SEK to SINTEF Fisheries and aquaculture, 10 million. SEK to the Veterinary Institute, SEK 7.9 million. NOK 160 new places in nurse training, SEK 9.2 million. NOK 160 new places in technology training, SEK 28 million. DKK 2 million for the strengthening of the financing of technology training. SEK for the operation of the building stock at the University Centre of Kristiansund, SEK 1,6 million. kr for setting up an Arctic natural guide by UNIS, 132 million. SEK to the Research Council, distributed as follows: 40 million. SEK for free project support, 40 million. SEK to Centers for Research-driven Innovation, 40 million. DKK for BIA and SEK 12 million. kr for Younger Excellent Researchers. You could call this targeted budget work that we've done to spend money on. Firstly, I find it disrespectful to the colleagues in the committee, and secondly, I completely disagree with the fact that this is spreading money around without goals and meaning. If, on the other hand, the Workers' Party believes that the Advance Party's proposal to grant 100 million. I would like the Workers' Party to address it from this pulpit and say that it is to waste the money to strengthen the space for action of universities and colleges to strengthen basic funding and to strengthen the space for action. It is an important work that we all have to do to reduce the temporaryity of the university and higher education sectors, so that we can benefit from these resources. Then we've talked about peace and order. The representative, Wickholm, appears a bit like the boy sitting at the back of the class and fighting, and is not so concerned to accompany when Tord Lien, the undersigned, speaks from the pulpit. The progress party is talking down the knowledge, it is said from that edge, and then he even draws out deep water expansions, which I actually addressed in my post – that once we've taken the position we have internationally in the petroleum industry, it's about we doing a lifting that time in the 1970s that enables us to really help develop the Norwegian petroleum industry and the petroleum industry now and then in other parts of the country. So we're not talking down knowledge, we're talking up knowledge all the time. I think it was important that the Council of State was involved in its contribution. We have to talk about the school, but we also have to have ambitions that are above what we deliver today. There we all have a responsibility to contribute. Then I just wish Right and SV good luck discussing who has the honour of getting where we have come today. I believe that we have all contributed, and that we all contribute further, along with those who work in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1881	Tord Lien talked about disrespect. His posts at full speed were, above all, disrespectful to the referees. This committee has traditionally tried to maintain a certain level of formation, and we have also had the tradition that we should refer to the great poems. Now the representative Eriksen reminded me that there has been no Ibsen, but really it should have been Bjørnson this year. So we have to stick to Bjørnson. The only thing that reminds me of today's debate is that he has said that in politics the truth must wait until someone needs it. With regard to the PISA debate, but also with regard to some other things, it's been a little bit impressive. Now there's someone who's going to start a study circle in school history on the Agder bench. I look forward to that. It will certainly increase the quality of future debates. It is not possible to achieve anything other than an increase in quality. While the Oslo School has been used by the Right and the City Council here in Oslo as an example of something good, this debate has suddenly produced as if the Oslo School has had a massive cut in continuing education, when they have actually chosen to go for another race, namely the Left Race, by introducing a year of competence for teachers in Oslo School. Sweden was highlighted as an example of a country that has failed to do well in PISA measurements. Then, all of a sudden, the PISA measurements are very important, and the recognition that Sweden has made it very bad over the last 11–12 years is lost. It's a great job to turn the Swedish school system around. But what I really took the floor for was to say something about the freedom of science. We in the Left probably want to maintain the decision and drive it to voting, because we are seriously concerned. Also, the installation of the representative Bremer did not result in us being so very secure – nor does his other posts, I think. For me and for the Left, and for a liberal party, the freedom of research is among the fundamental freedoms of a society. Don't break it. We think that the Council of State has actually expressed itself well in the media about the principles here, but we also want the principle of voting, because this is a fundamental question. For among the great freedoms laid down in the Declaration of Human Rights, this is in a way also a version of freedom of expression, the right to express itself in that debate. We believe that this must be legalised. How to do this is a lot of different versions. We're not saying how it's going to be done, but we think it's a fundamental freedom that should be guaranteed in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1896	The President will invite the representative, Lien, to give a script to the referees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1899	Now I didn't go to school in the middle of the war, so the Ruiters have to excuse me for not commenting on the first part of his post. But when it comes to reform 94, I know a little bit about it. In addition to checking the voting results of this, it may be possible to look up some of the evaluation programmes that have been following reform 94. It can be a lot of good knowledge to find there, too, if you're interested in school policy. It's now that school policy engages, for it concerns our kids, the most important thing we have. What I very often miss from the government parties in the debates is a defined parenting role. I fully agree with the Christian People's Party that there is something we neglect in the debate, and it has to do with something of the utmost importance we do. When government parties are up and talking about school policy, you can sometimes get the impression that they've invented the kids. But it's now that these kids are raised in a home, and the school is going to give them school. So you can't do that all by yourself. To shout and shout about the terrible privatisation policy to the Right in the case of private schools: a lot of private schools get started because of healthy initiatives from parents who are involved in their children's growth, who are engaged in these kids going to a good school. One would like to disconnect from the school councils as an important value and say that it doesn't matter, it's called, it's right policy, it's privatisation, and it's capital. But that's not the reality of some of the private schools we see. It's actually some engaged parents. Many of these engaged parents have discovered that they can send fruit and food with the kids at school or make sure that the kids get a meal. So the description that almost all primary and secondary school students in Norway were starving all the time until SV came with their fruit barrels is not correct either. At least it's not my experience. So to the term ‘13-year-old school’. I think it should also be included in the debate, that you are able to see the kids from they start in the first class, throughout the elementary school cycle and through high school in one vision. I think that's very important. The reason for this is that the transition between high school and high school is a very difficult field, says the researchers to us. That is why I miss the fact that 13-year-olds are not more often included in the debate. I think it might be very important to focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1915	The fact that the 2011 State budget is a budget for tightening up with an intrusive effect of 0.2 pst has not exactly shaped this debate. Yes, we are lucky, because in the parliaments of very many other countries we are now discussing an incredibly intolerable and terrible budget, for example. in the United Kingdom, which was presented here as a good example of how to protect the education sector. Well, they're teaching students at the universities with 40 pst. They're going to carry on the research nominally, but it's a real decline. If we're going to see the appropriations for research from this government over the years, we've increased in dollars and ears by 50 pst., from 15 billion. NOK 24 billion. kr, and the real growth has been 27 pst. It's awesome. But in the 2011 state budget, it has been more urgent than otherwise, and the priorities are very clear. In the higher education and university sectors, there are places of study, and in primary education, secondary education is our primary priority. It is crucial because we know that the labour market of the future is going to be more demanding in terms of education and it is crucial to provide the best possible starting point for young people. That is why we now have a comprehensive commitment and cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge, the Directorate of Education and the counties to systematically follow the students from high school and into secondary education. It is a separate project that is just about the transition, where we are now in municipalities in all the counties to ensure that those who work the most professionally are given an opportunity to participate in a project from Christmas to Christmas, to close some of the knowledge holes they have, so that they can get through. I'm also very concerned about high school. That's what I was short inside of my post. I'm very concerned about the parents, because parents' expectations for the kids are crucial to how far they can use their potential in school. It's not necessarily about parents having so much education. We know that parents who are illiterate also have expectations and feel that the school is important to facilitate homework, etc. They are crucial to the students' efforts. I'm also very concerned about the learning environment and bullying. We know that a good learning environment is helping to balance social differences in school. Both the representative Hanekamhaug and I are very concerned about these questions. Now we take a new round of Manifesto against bullying. We want local partners there, because then we think the commitments are getting closer. Then I also want to mention the adults. There are many adults who have not received any particular part of the educational goods. Adult training is essential. Two words at the end about the cultural school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1930	It has to be short.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1933	There are people talking about school time and school leisure. But we know that the children who go to SFO, or who have good offers in activity schools, also have greater learning outcomes. [[President clubs]] And the cultural school is a field of activity in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1938	It's going to be wrong to say, as the Christian People's Party says, that there has been a systematic downgrading of the budget for research and higher education during this government, when there has actually been an increase of 6.8 billion. kr in this period on the very educational side. The research side has increased from the starting point of 15.5 billion. SEK to now a research budget of 24,3 billion. kr. So we keep the budget at a high level and we have a nominal increase of half a billion. But really, there's going to be a slight drop. But we're at a high level, and we're obviously counting on that research to benefit society. That much good is happening, I think both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties and the Government can agree on. So it's going to be wrong to say that, and it's going to be wrong to say that it's the weakest research budget in ten years. I agree that growth may be somewhat weak from this year to the next, but it is not the weakest research budget. So it's the highest research budget of the time that we've had in the last two years. I took the floor – and I hope that the representative of the Left was present – because I would very strongly ask the Left to convert its proposal into a transmission proposal. We have worked in the department, either Warloe has noticed it or not, since we had the debate in February, and are working even more intensively now with work on standard contracts, clarifying the conditions that are set in terms of fencing for academic freedom, improving the contract, and making everyone good on orders, whether they be departments or other sponsors. When the debate was last held in Stortinget, in February, all parties, including the opposition parties, agreed that lawmaking beyond what is associated with the Law on Higher Education is a difficult matter. It's not easy. We don't have our own law for this, and it's a difficult thing. But I say I'm willing to consider this as part of the measures we are now taking to ensure academic freedom. That is why I hoped that we could have this proposal as a transmission proposal, so that the Storting – as little as we know about the possibilities for this now – did not decide on it right now. However, I can assure both the author of the proposal and those who agree to this proposal that we will take in-depth assessments of possible legislation, but it is, as I said, a rather demanding and challenging task that the ministry must consider very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1953	Aksel Hagen has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1956	I'm not a historian, I'm planning. That's why I'm most concerned about looking forward. I am looking forward to the further development work, because I think that will be influenced by something that was the atmosphere in the introduction to the presentation conference when the PISA results were presented, i.e. before the Councillor Kristin Halvorsen left off. It was established that PISA measures one of three areas of competence. So PISA measures part of the school, not all of it. They do not measure the issues of formation, maturity, understanding democracy, dealing with their own lives and being able to interact with others. So the researchers tell us that it's important just to look at the whole thing. Researcher Marit Kjärnsli also says that we're probably relatively better off in the two areas that PISA doesn't measure than we are on what PISA measures. So the scientist finally says that we have to see all three areas in context, as I said. This is exactly what SV's school policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1961	Truls Wickholm has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1964	Guys at the back of the classroom also have something to contribute. I hope that the representative Lien will take note of future school debates. But it was a very important clarification that Lien had that the priorities that the Progress Party has done are done with care and intention. It may be worth noting if you are an immigrant or the same, because they have had a strong cut in initial training. Initial training to help asylum seekers obtain a school equivalent to Norwegian primary school is cut by half. The same applies to initial training for co-workers. Then I also have a little clarification to Dagrun Eriksen: The size is actually with and changes the budget. The budget has been changed since it arrived at Stortinget. Among other things, we've got a commitment to more homework and more sex education in school. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1973	Mr Bremer has spoken twice in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1976	I have two short comments for the Progress Party – first to Tord Lien. He went on an autopilot on the speaker's chair and framed all the redistributions the party does in the budget. It's all right, but it doesn't have anything to do with the unspecified and general transfer to the operation, without goals and meaning that they stand for. Based on the fact that the Progress Party actually uses 12.2 billion. kr more than the government, including the so-called dynamic effects, is shamefully small in their use of education. To the representative of Thorsen's attempt at the political rehabilitation of Anders Lange, I would say that he has never been known for caring for our school. On the contrary, there are completely different values Anders Lange has been known for. I don't think he's going to go into the history book that's especially valuable to society. So my well-meaning advice to the Progress Party is to let Anders Lange rest in peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1983	There are many small and large debates you might be tempted to participate in that I leave behind. But what I want to point out is that this is a budget that covers a lot of topics. Not least, it is shown by the fact that there are very many government councils that are affected by what we are working on in our budget. It's one of the longest debates going on in these December weeks, which means that it's almost impossible for us, even within the long speaking time we have, to be within absolutely everything. That means that school and home matters, of course, to many of us even if we haven't mentioned it. The same applies to bullying. What nobody's been into is the subject of religious societies other than the Church of the State, but that doesn't mean it's not important in our society. Therefore, I would like to point out that it is not possible to get into all the issues, even during as long a debate as we have. So this with targeted appropriations from the Progress Party and the Right has already been commented on by other representatives of the Workers' Party. It is about the fact that from the point of view we may lack more involvement in the form of text in settings on how the parties look at what kind of future structure, cooperation, work sharing and targeting it should be in the higher education and university sectors. There we find few connections to money usage, the money is only distributed without more specification than that. When we've increased the budgets, we've connected it more closely to division of labour, targeting and cooperation. So to the ideological debate that is linked to the last PISA study, I think it's possible to say that we absolutely agree on a lot of things here, for example. quality development, early interventions and a wide range of other issues that had been addressed, such as: parent-school cooperation. But there are also different views in some areas, and this concerns private schools. And that doesn't apply to the private schools that we have, that some people have mentioned during the debate. That's not what this is about -- we have a deal around the private schools we now have -- but it's about the private schools that Right will open up to, that have a more commercial character. That's what's happened in Sweden. In addition, we have a different view of the division of groups. Then I will refer to the Right Programme – which I wonder if anyone could comment on from the Right – where it says that we should ‘let this be the basis of education adapted to the level of skills of the students from the first stage’, and it should be based on it. So you're going to have to divide into first-stage groups, adapted to the students' skill levels, and that's exactly what the OECD is warning of. The working party and the red-green government are not opposed to conducting customised training in groups in the classroom, but to having a teaching geared towards skill levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e1998	I am responding to the negative claims made by some red-green representatives about the school policy in Oslo. It's known that Oslo has the best school in the country, and that doesn't mean we're satisfied or done with development. We want to keep going up and up, and we're constantly working on that. Clemet says to the Newspaper today: Look to Oslo, that's where you go in front of you when it comes to putting the promise of knowledge into practice. I think most people have come along with who it is that has constantly questioned knowledge in the focus and measurement of results, just to ensure targeted efforts to ensure high learning pressure. When the knowledge promise was launched, SV was on time against national tests, against exams, against grades, against admission requirements in teacher training and against clear skills objectives. When the big message about the promise of knowledge was submitted, SV said this was a step backwards. It is good that it obviously no longer applies. When the Right took over the City Council in Oslo in 1997, the school was one of our most closed social institutions. We knew little about the student's learning outcomes and even less about what was going on to raise the quality of Norwegian school. And since 1997, there has been a focus on quality and content in school through increased hours, reading and writing training from 1st grade, and systematic monitoring and transparency of learning outcomes in Oslo. It was said from this pulpit earlier today that Oslo is cutting teachers' continuing training. No, I don't know about that. In Oslo, we continue what we call the teacher's vow. In addition to state resources and measures to extend the Knowledge Commitment, Oslo has always made a strong commitment to its own targeted actions for more competent teachers and school leaders. Three of the most important are: own scholarship system for the further training of teachers. We also offer enhanced teacher training for newly educated teachers in Oslo School. In addition, for a long time we have been focusing heavily on school management, with our own cooperation on master's degree at BI. Students measured in PISA for 2009 are students who started high school at the time of the introduction of the Knowledge promise. Oslo is completely in the dark, and it is particularly important that Oslo has significantly fewer students at the lowest level in 2010. This is what we look at as a result of our school policy in recent years, and we are playing hard on the basics. In Oslo, we've been working hard on screening and have full transparency about how the schools perform. We do manage to lift the students who labor the most, and at the same time challenge the most handsome, which is important in a city with such a complex student group as ours, where four out of ten students have a minority background. Researchers who have followed developments in Norwegian school closely believe that the nation has much to learn from the Oslo school. In Oslo it's only 8 pst. by students who belong to those with the least professional level, against 20 pst. on a national basis. In addition, we know that children with low-skilled parents do better in Oslo than in the rest of the country. It shows that the Higher Education Policy, as practiced in Oslo, not only creates the best results, but also contributes to creating social mobility, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2017	In a previous post, the representative Wickholm thought that we in the Progress Party were talking good students down – and that after I had spent 5-6 minutes of my post talking about the importance of just getting the talents up in the schools, and how important it is to get them out. That he was able to draw the conclusion that in the Progress Party we are talking down the smart heads, I must say is a little impressive! Several representatives of the Workers' Party have repeated the mess which has been clearly indoctrinated over the last few years, namely that the Progress Party will privatise, privatise, privatise the school sector. That's not what this is about. Representatives from the Workers' Party know just as well as we do in the Advance Party and the Right that in relation to financing private schools, which are not equal today, private schools are forced to actually take school money, so that we get the privatisation that we see today, where the wallet actually decides – unlike a system that the Progress Party wants, with equal funding. Otherwise, I think it's a very positive sign that they Ruiter – when he's trying to substantiate his claim that the Progress Party always talks negatively about the school – has to go almost three years back in time to find an opinion from a single representative. I find that positive. I must also be allowed to point out that the representative de Ruiter also said that we had to get away from all the testing and testing and the test regime that was in school, how cruel this was and that it had to go away – while recording that his own government uses the results of these tests for all they are worth as political shooting and ammunition in the school struggle now that the results of the PISA survey had gone up. At the same time, the representative, Mr Wickholm, pointed out in his speech that the Progress Party wants a different type of funding in support of training for Sami and Finnish students. Yes, we suggest that this should be the responsibility of the municipality – exactly the same as you have done in relation to the financial responsibility of the students who have dyslexia and extra reading and writing difficulties. It is quite fine for the government parties to do in the budget, namely to transfer the financial responsibility for them with dyslexia to the municipalities. But at the same time, you are criticising the Progress Party for having the same type of funding structure for Finnish and Sami training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2030	Representatives are asked to address their speech to the President and not directly to other representatives, and also to be cautious in using terms such as ‘political shooting’, etc. Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2035	As regards the increase in the budget, the budgets provided are always higher than the previous year. But I'm not going to spend any more time on it. I had a dream that home-school collaboration would come up at least once before the Christian People's Party took it up. It has been my only big dream today, and I have been sitting and waiting for it. We've got a good purpose paragraph, it's firmly anchored in the Stortinget, but it's not so well anchored out in the schools. I want to challenge the Council of State to work on how the purpose paragraph can become a management tool in school, both the values that the paragraph mentions – which is very good – the home-school collaboration and the whole social mission. I think I might have been involved in putting this into more formalized cooperation. The sub-financing of FUG, one of the strongest tools for getting a good home-school collaboration, should not be familiar with the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2045	I'm coming right after the Christian People's Party, but I'm going to talk about home-school cooperation at the beginning of my post and first give honor to the representative Eriksen to address the important topic. It's also a theme that the Center Party is very concerned about. Not least with regard to the ongoing New GIV initiative that the government continues and strengthens from next year, we believe that home-school cooperation is an important perspective. Because we have a challenge in high school, given that many students are then in a phase of life in which they become authoritative, that many are moving on to shelter, and that adult contact and home-school cooperation may be at their very core. In order to go a little further on with non-response: the Council of State was a little involved in the transition project between secondary and secondary school. I think that might be some of the key. As I was also partly involved in my post, it is not that students fall from when they begin high school – the germ of apostasy lies earlier in the course of education. I want to draw up my own county, Uppland, which each year produces an exemplary message called the Quality and Activity Notice in higher education, which I would recommend to the Council of State to read. There is also the number of students, or the proportion of the annual school, who have either not applied or have not agreed to take up post-secondary education. It's a pretty daunting percentage of that year's coal that already disappears there and becomes part of the non-response statistics. So, of course, some of the students will start in high school later, but the importance of investing in the link between high school and high school is for me, based on the figures I see, among other things. in its own State, absolutely crucial to the success of increasing secondary flows. So to the right: the representative Aspaker could reassure me that there were regional development funds that were cut and not the investment in high school. Well, I'm not very calm, because the commitment to building skills across the country is incredibly important, and regional development funds are often linked to increasing educational levels. It does not help to cut them off, nor does it help to counter regional research funds. Finally, I am surprised that a party that talks so hotly about globalisation seems to find it difficult for local authorities to be able to talk and cooperate across municipal borders and to find good solutions for school policy locally. However, the Right obviously lives in a world where municipal borders are more difficult to overcome than national borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2058	Freddy de Ruiter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2061	A few answers to the representative Hanekamhaug: if there's something very many of us are proud of, then what we did when we took over to stop the crazy growth that was in the number of private schools, especially at high school. There were thousands of school places, and especially the Bauer High Schools – a Swedish school chain – wanted to foam the river along the coast. Fortunately, we got that stopped. What is also a fact is that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left voted against the new private school law. Luckily, we had a Christian People's Party with us. Today it's not the wallet that decides whether you have the opportunity to go to private school, we cover 85 pst., and then it's a specialty. But what's a little tangible here is that the Progress Party wants a state funding share of 100 pst. In addition, they say they're open to school money. At least that's what they said about these guys in the hall. Then we're not going away from testing, but we're testing with reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2070	Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2073	Also, the committee leader, Aasen, says that the Progress Party is throwing money around, and that we won't say anything about how to organise the UH sector when we take power in 2013. I agree that the university and higher education sectors deserve to know what it will be like when we come to power. But at the same time, I think there is a call for conflict. We very much agree on this. The Advance Party and Tord Lien are whole-hearted supporters of the government's case work, but perhaps you could have an even greater focus on it. They ask me personally if we have enough universities in Norway, the answer to that is yes. But in that debate there are other considerations to consider. We allocate 320 new places of study to the higher education institutions that deliver best on the number of primary applicants and the degree of implementation. So I think this debate has become a little bit strange at the end. We agree on reality, we essentially agree on ambitions, but we disagree a little bit on the means. I think maybe we should be happy that there's as much consensus as it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2080	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2083	I just want to make one comment about something that concerns me a little bit about the school debate. We have many important, large areas which concern many students and which we are discussing. We have actually done that today. But then it ends up in a school election version that's about private schools, which is such a small part of Norwegian school life. Freddy de Ruiter can only frighten with his scare pictures, but I have much more faith in public school than that. I don't think anyone who wants to start a private school is going to get a full candidate pot. Actually, I don't think they're that good. It is this lack of confidence that public school is so good and will be able to compete so well, I believe is a fundamental misinterpretation. I have faith in public school. For the left, the public school is always going to be the most important. That's what we're going to discuss. This concerns 98 pst. by Norwegian students. Now let's not end up in a debate where it's going to be about for or against private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2092	What's going to be a topic in the future is some of what the OECD shows when analysing results for all countries, namely that countries with a significant inequality as part of their school systems succeed worse than those based on equality. In this respect, it is very interesting to see the difference between Sweden’s development and Norway’s development. In fact, we have managed to reverse the downward trend in 2006, from 2006 to 2009, while Sweden continues downwards, and a very important part of the explanation in the PISA report on this is the increasing inequality between schools in Sweden. I think it's very interesting, and it's going to shape the debate further forward. As the right-hand side also starts to get involved in this report, I expect a significant change among the right-hand parties in the case of private schools. It wasn't exactly with tabs and flags that you ran the law of free school in the persuasion debate. So some short notes. Kristin Vinje was in his post about what I first experienced was a slightly sore look from Kristin Klemet in the newspaper today, and which I had not intended to comment on here. It's like a failure has no fathers, but a success has many parents. Of course, some of the arrests that Kristin Clement took when she was the Council of State were important, but it's not that the promise of knowledge was something that only the right-hand side stood for. There was a broad political consensus in the Storting about it. There were some disagreements, including: SV and the Central Party thought that we should not have a mandatory foreign language. It was not implemented. Now we know that we have to make some changes in high school that reverse parts of the way we thought about the Knowledge promise, because it becomes too academic and too little practical. It's also about e.g. mathematics in high school. With regard to national tests, I believe that ranking school results from national tests does not provide any interesting information. National tests allow municipalities and schools to compare with national averages, but that's what they give. Oslo has achieved a part in addition to the impact of social background in the majority of students. In the case of minority students, Norwegian-born minority students do so roughly as the national average. For those who have migrated themselves, they do so below the national average, and there may be good reasons for doing so. But anyway, if we ignore it, Oslo has an extra effect. I don't think it's primarily due to ranking and further testing, I think it's due to an opportunity to build skills that Oslo has, and for which they're to have all the honor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2109	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2112	I don't think anyone in this room is in any doubt that the school is in a special position important in the Right Policy. We've connected our school policy with teachers and students in the center and with parents as an important and central third party. It's also the ideas that the promise of knowledge is based on, and not any Swedish ideas, that red-green politicians here are trying to represent it as. Moreover, I have noticed that the Swedish Minister of Education both signals that they are reforming in Swedish school and that they intend to make major changes in Swedish school to reverse the negative trend they are in. The representative of Wickholm was concerned with the relationship between nutrition and learning. The right is concerned with the relationship between teacher and learning. It's hard to prove that that's what really works, and that's where we need to focus, and where we need to prioritise our money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2119	I just have a brief comment on the tame of the debate. I do not expect the Right and Advance Party to be involved in the entire Swedish PISA report now. However, it is a fact that when there were major elections in 2005, there were applications for private schools that included 22,000 students in Norway. It had led to significant privatisation, and we know something about privatisation, namely that it attracts some students and not all students. Ergo would lead to centralization. Many states would have major problems in maintaining their public high schools, and this would lead to greater differences between schools. This is part of the explanation for Sweden’s development, as opposed to Norway’s development. It was also one of the most controversial things, not the promise of knowledge and the content of the promise of knowledge. Among the big, controversial issues in the school area were the privatisation debate and the ranking debate around national tests. We took a break in carrying out the national tests. We engaged in dialogue with School-Norway, found times and ways to publish this that have made national samples now used as a good tool very many places. Many teachers say that they have good quality. But comparing whether a school goes up or down a tenth doesn't give you any knowledge of the quality of these schools, and I think you're starting to get involved in it. And then there were other conflicts, of course, that were about shifting the negotiating responsibility of the teachers – it was a very big conflict. The class division number supported by SV was also a significant conflict. I don't think you can get a real boost without cooperation between the political authorities and the school. For the job that makes our learning outcomes now point up and go forward and not further down, as in Sweden, every day in school is done by competent teachers, by students and by parents who also have to contribute. That is why I believe that we now have – what to say – a broad consensus on the most important thing. But it can be torpedoed to a great extent if the Right Party and the Advance Party are not looking closely at what is happening in the OECD – that is, the OECD, it's not the SV's party program, this is the OECD – and the PISA researchers, because it's very interesting knowledge for the future school debate to find there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2131	At the bottom of the debate, I have received a challenge from the Right at Harberg in particular, where he gives the impression that there is neither purpose nor meaning in the government's policy on higher education and research. Then I just want to say that of course it's the goal and the meaning of it, we've invested a lot of money, that's also part of this budget. But what we have as a plan is to strengthen quality, by motivating and encouraging cooperation, to work sharing and to professional concentration, it's developing robust professional environments, it's trying to reduce temporaryity, and get good conditions, both for employees and not least for students. As far as the direction is concerned, it is clear that we need to train, research and drive the development of knowledge in line with the needs of society, the needs of business and the needs of society. But we also need to give room to free research, both in the real sense that research should be free and that one can also have curiosity-driven research – research that is not determined by programmes and orders. That's the direction. The direction is that we need the knowledge, we need the knowledge to develop society further. As I began my main contribution today: we need to drive the development of knowledge to solve global problems, to further develop our society and our welfare state, and to create a basis for economic development across the country. Then we need education and research across the country, and then we need it to be focused on it. I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it has been an inspiring debate in relation to this budget. I think we can all be happy that we live in a country where we do not discuss budgets that are marked by economic crisis, but that we live in a country where we have good institutions and a good school system, and that we see that we are on the way to a proper development in developing knowledge for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2142	After listening to the debate all day, I can't leave the history falsification from the State Council Halvorsen unanswered. You don't write history by falsifying the close story. Point 1: Schools are not commercial if they are forbidden to make dividends. Then, of course, all non-profit institutions operating within health and within schools are commercial, because they at least take out enough to be able to pay their employees. There was a ban on taking dividends. When we use terms such as ‘22,000 applications’, it is not the same as if they were accepted, for example: because the requirement not to make dividends is there. Point 2: Oslo School. It's to emphasize the fact that Oslo School's good results are there despite the fact that you have the biggest feature in the whole country of students with immigrant background. Now I'm not saying that there's necessarily something negative in it. But it is clear that it is a challenge to have students in their schoolwork who have a slightly weaker Norwegian background than other students. This is particularly true of those who have come to the country and are not born here. In spite of that, Oslo School is doing better. So I agree with the conclusion, that Oslo School deserves honor, but it might have been said a little bit more clearly. Point 3: It is then to emphasize the fact that the Oslo schools have been open about the results between schools – not between students, but between schools – has provided a competitive element that has been stimulating, among other things. because those schools that have not managed well enough have had the resources to develop better and have therefore gradually reached the stage of competition. So it's an element of competition that's crucial to the quality development in Oslo School, which SV is opposed to, but which they haven't been able to stop because of the law, and it has contributed to the fact that Oslo School today is a good school. It's also part of reality and thus also part of history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2153	Just a few comments. The main score for countries with good school performance and countries with poorer school performance is not whether they are commercial or not; it is whether there are significant differences between schools. I have a copy of the report from Sweden, and what is a very important finding there, is that inequalities have increased considerably between schools in Sweden. It is a combination of free school choice — which I believe the social democrats actually introduced — and privatisation. But at least they've had a huge increase in private schools that have led to major inequalities, and that's an important part of the explanation. That's the one. So it's not a debate about commercialisation or not, but about inequalities between schools. So just two words about Oslo School: Oslo School gets very good. It is beyond doubt when you look at the results in Oslo School, that Oslo School gets an effect out of the job they do that goes beyond the differences that can be explained with social background — that’s a very important explanation background for the results in school — and it gets them primarily from the majority of students. So minority students are about on a national scale, and displaced minority students are a little lower. It may well be that the latter is related to the arrival of several refugees in Oslo. So here we have to have a nuanced debate. I have very little faith that publishing and ranking the results of national tests between schools would be an important driving force in this regard. If you live in the inner city and check the results of the Sagen, Grünerløkka and Bjølsen, and it varies with a tenth here and there, it gives very little information. Working systematically with teachers' skills, allocating resources based on what you have of challenges, I think is a very important explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2164	It's a myth that good and bad schools in Oslo depend on whether they're east or west. We have a lot of good examples, not least in high school, that schools in the West have had bad results, but fought up, and schools in the East have also fought up on the list. It is an element of competition that, among other things: present a challenge to the College of Teachers, which they take seriously. Then I'm glad the State Council Halvorsen is now confirming two things. The fact that Oslo School has a very large element of deployment classes is, of course, a challenge in achieving results in national tests – we all need to recognise that. The number of immigrant survivors born in Norway and therefore may be somewhat weaker in the control of, among others, drug users. Norwegian, is also a challenge, to say it that way. As far as OECD results are concerned, I do not think that there is any research that clearly demonstrates that differences in the ownership of schools have any impact on the country-wide outcome. But differences in the educational design of schools may be significant. It is clear that the fact that there are some differences in educational arrangements between schools in the same country may be an incentive more than there is a problem. The difference between English schools, that is, schools in the United Kingdom, doesn't necessarily go in the form of ownership, but it goes in tradition. Pedagogical inequality can also be stimulating – I think the Council of State should recognise that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2173	What is an important point in relation to the OECD's assessment of country's school systems is that large differences between schools and differentiation and segregation go counter to a good school system and good results. How you recruit to schools is crucial here, because the social background of your parents is so important for the results you achieve. Then we'll have to take the debate from there. I accept, and respect, of course, that you need to go into that discussion, but I perceive that this is a very important and important knowledge of what we have to take with us on how the school will develop further in the future. For those who do the job every single day in School-Norway, I think it is of great value that there is a broad political consensus about the most important steps in school. Of course, there will always be a difference between how the right side approaches this, and the left side, but it is no disadvantage that this debate shows that in important and important areas, such as, in the case of non-response, in the case of bullying, in the case of the development of secondary education, in the context of the core of the Knowledge promise, the focus on the competence of teachers, etc., is a high degree of consensus. Social background is very important, surprisingly important – I think – to many when it comes to school performance. That's the way it is in Oslo. Oslo is also unable to remove the social background. But it's interesting what you can do in some Eastern schools. That you think systematically about how to do this, for example. can link research environments, special learning skills and business life to schools in areas that have special social challenges, in any case, I think are very important, because it can contribute to attracting the interest, search and variation of the student population in schools. But the thing that was supposed to be extremely crucial is how one school does it in relation to others – I rarely meet teachers who have it as their main driving force. They're extremely busy reaching the best results for their students. I think the most important quality teachers can have is ambition for their students. That might be the last point. There are actually quite a number of students who meet with too low ambitions on their behalf, at home and at school, and everyone needs something to stretch after.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2182	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2185	I'm glad of the last thing the Council of State said about Oslo School, that we use resource allocations for, among other things. countering inequalities in a social context. The school shall contribute to its smoothing. Everyone should be able to be lifted through school. But to know which schools are struggling with the biggest problems, it's pretty important to have a survey. That it should be secret, limited only to Oslo City Board or Oslo School Board would be artificial – that the teachers themselves would not know about it, and the students would know about it. At least the degree of stimulation in it is important. The Council of State has now, in and on its own, abolished the concept of 'commercial schools', which has been used in the debate, because they are not commercial when they cannot make a profit. In that case, it would be an absurd definition of commercialization. So Red Cross is also very commercial because they have the ability to pay their employees. So the terms ‘commercial schools’ and ‘privatisation’ are not part of the debate on school policy, at least not with the parties represented in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2192	I can't push myself, because I know that the Per-Christian Foss representative has no speaking time left. But here I can stand for three minutes. No, I'm just going to have a very brief comment. The privatisation/commercialisation discussion is not over. It is absolutely right that there are no parties on Stortinget who have so far said that they want commercial schools. But that's how it's a significant challenge to keep track of where the money goes, and that there's been a problem around, for example. John Bauer Schools is a well-known cause. So for national tests and rankings. Remember what kind of climate there was around the national tests. In many schools, there were 20 pst. Of the students who conducted them, there were heavy boycotts, and it was a huge spectre, because you didn't accept that you had such a one-sided focus on a tenth up or down on a national test saying something about the quality of their school. And then we took a break. We did new tests, we did them at one time, and we didn't rank them in their release. It's true that schools and municipalities have the right to know what the results are. This is why national tests are now considered useful by most schools and by most municipalities. You can't ignore the fact that using that kind of test with a sense of mind is very, very crucial. If not, you get very quickly into a system where you are so arranged on tests – that the tests control the content – that you no longer measure the job that is done otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2201	So it looks like we're in the goal. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1576]] At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2, 3, 4 and 5 are dealt with together – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2252	We are now debating all four balancing propositions together, that is. Prop. 28 S, Prop. 31 S, Prop. 34 S and Prop. 38 S. I need to comment on Prop. 38 S from the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church. The case concerns the financial loss of the Information Service's fund, OVF, has been imposed as a result of the Santa Claus directive, which High Court on 12 May 2010 declared invalid for the OVF. These include losses in the redemption of fasteners, losses due to deregulated fasteners’ fees, losses due to under-adjusted fasteners’ fees, losses due to deferred regulation of fasteners’ fees in 2009 and 2010 and future losses on fasteners’ fees. The proposal proposes a total of 320 million. kr in compensation to OVF. Unfortunately, there has been a technical error in the recommendation. Appropriations under a new heading. 1504 is listed in the whole thousand, i.e. 320,000 kroner. This is wrong. The amount, as I said, is going to be 320 million. kr. It is good that this matter is resolved and that the committee's decision is unanimous. However, in order to avoid any misunderstanding or uncertainty as to what the Committee believes, I need to clarify how the majority for its part, i.e. The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre shall be required to understand the Committee's comments. We have noted the good dialogue between the State and the OVF about the individual losses and the interest calculation of the amount, and we assume that the parties come to an amicable arrangement within a reasonable time. It is not natural that the Storting put other leads to this work at this stage. We also record that the government has announced that the issue of the size of OVF’s future losses as a result of charging adjustment and compensation for OVF’s overall losses will be assessed, and that one will return to this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2269	We're dealing with four things at a time, and I was too prepared for Marianne Aasen to deal with the matter for which she is the rapporteur. However, I note that she has already mentioned the matter for which I am rapporteur, so I may not have to go into depth again about what this matter contains, that is summed up. It is such that the committee is very pleased that this matter is coming. We have requested this in Stortinget on several occasions. When we proposed it before the summer, the government parties would not be involved – I am pleased that you are now. The important thing now is that the Information Society's fund gets clarity about what they have for good, and what they have the right to. That is why it is important that this matter goes forward quickly. Now the Council of State and I have had a line exchange on this before today, and then something was clarified. I am pleased that the Council of State confirmed that there is a matter for Stortinget after Christmas on the purely legal matter. But I would like to point out that it is strange that it will take so long to figure out what this costs. I think it needs to be put a little bit of a click on to get it done. The size expect at least before the review of the revised budget with the rest of this settlement, so that we can put this matter to death. It is also important here that this Committee should agree with the Information Service Fund – one will have no more legal proceedings – and that there will be a settlement that will fully replace the loss suffered by the Information Service Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2280	That the collapse decision on the Santa Claus Act became invalid, did not come as a surprise to the Progress Party. This was maintained throughout the process. The party warned against voting in favour of the proposal under the Law on Santa Claus. The government showed no willingness to listen to this, but chose the hard way, which cost taxpayers dearly, and caused major problems for the OVF. Today, we are pleased that there is a total collapse in order for the loss to be fully compensated, and that it will happen in dialogue with the OVF. That is what we in the Progress Party are doing to ensure that there is a dialogue. That it's been positive to now, of course, we're happy. But what is a little extra sin is that the government parties chose to bring this case through two courts before they realized that the battle was lost. The Progress Party expects and trusts that the loss will be replaced as soon as possible, that a meeting with an open mind and seeking to have a good dialogue, so that we can get a quick decision on the refund, in order to avoid more cases, as the rapporteur also pointed out. I also registered that Stortinget will receive treatment for a change of law in connection with a new burial law and church law. That's not exactly what the Progress Party wants, but we're positive that the government sort out the formalities, so they're okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2291	One shouldn't say, what did we say? But at least we can say that we asked in advance for an assessment of the land attaching instructions set up against the Constitution. And then we might have let go of the laps we've now had behind us. It would probably have been wise, and it would have saved us too much work. Having said that, I would like to say that it is very good that the Council of State earlier in the debate today announced that she will come with the technical amendment of the law of the Santa Claus Act, and that it will come into place, even though the law was actually set aside when the judgment of the Supreme Court fell. I became a little uncertain when I heard Marianne Aasen's posts, so I need to read out what we actually agree on: ‘The Committee points out that it is important to reach agreement with the Information Service Fund on the size of the loss to be replaced in order to avoid a situation in which new actions on these matters are brought. The Committee takes the view that as soon as possible and fully as possible, the State compensates the funds of the Information Society for the losses incurred as a result of the instruction.’;» There's not much interpretation in this. That's what we're together about. I'm glad the whole committee is here together. So I think that the treatment of the OVF and the judgment that fell in the Supreme Court say something very important about how this fund was set up, and about who it can spend money on. I think that has been a useful experience for the whole political environment. This is a fund that the Church has the right to have, which they can, on their side, dispose of on the basis of what the fund is going to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2307	My comments also go to case No. 5, Inst. 117 S for 2010–2011. The representative Dagrun Eriksen found no basis for saying, "What did we say?" I'm not that modest, I want to say, what did we say? Because there were few warnings before the government lost its way in this matter, and I think they quite deserve to hear it. I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur when the Stortinget dealt with the government's proposal for a law amending the Law on the Information Society's fund, so that it would allow the Santa Claus directive. The size was very fragmented, in fact as fragmented as it is possible to become a big one, as to whether the law change was contrary to the Constitution § 106 or not. The opposition considered, as it is known, that the proposal was contrary to the Constitution, while the government parties related to the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department and held that the Constitution did not prevent the amendment of the law. At this point too, the Department of Justice's law department was wrong. The Supreme Court essentially agreed with the opposition's considerations. The majority dealt with the matter several times. It was also assessed whether one should request the opinion of the Supreme Court prior to the legal proceedings, according to the Constitutional Act § 83. This was ridiculed by the government parties because it would inactivate the Supreme Court, which of course is completely wrong. It was representatives of the government parties who said in the debate from the pulpit of the Storting that it really didn't matter, because a trial would in any case correct the possible errors of the Storting. I think a big deal should be more aware of the framework of the Constitution than the large majority in this case. As elected representatives, we are obliged to work for good and predictable solutions for the people. By challenging the Constitution over and over again, the majority weakens the credibility of the Stortinge in such questions. Government parties have created expectations that they could not meet. The result is now, among other things: that 1,150 randomly selected Norwegians have won some sort of state lottery. They have received a tax-financed discount on their land purchases. That's what this is really about, financing the tax-funded discount. Government policies have led to serious discrimination against citizens of equal origin. The government has shown that it is unable to deal with the frameworks set by the Constitution, and it has created difficulties for the Information Society's fund and for the Church. Minister of Justice, and jurist Knut Storberget is one of those who have fought hard to introduce the Santa Claus directive for the Information Society fund – and he has taken it completely wrong. This matter is so serious that it has been claimed by some media teams that there can be a basis for national law action against the responsible state council, then Minister of Church Trond Giske. This may still be the case, as violations of the Liability Act have the long limitation period. So the boundless arrogance shown by the government parties in the numerous proceedings of the Storting on this matter is not a basis for this. I remember, among other things: that a representative from the Workers' Party, Gorm Kjernli, almost ridiculed the Advance Party and the opposition's security in the matter. Rarely has the phrase «the one who laughs last, laughs best» had greater relevance in a case of law, I think. I hope the matter can contribute to a degree of humility on the part of the government parties. Perhaps they may also develop an ability to listen to other people than themselves in matters where constitutional questions are put to the fore. I am now pleased that the Minister of the Church can finally put forward a proposal for compensation to the Information Society Fund, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee requires agreement with the Information Society's fund on the totality of the compensation calculation, so that one does not risk a new, delicate legal case. All of this could have been avoided if the government parties had listened to something more about the opposition. I take the view that the chairman of the committee does not go beyond the wording of the comitology but that, in fact, it is the position in the committee which is the actual position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2331	I was inspired to hear a representative from Anundsen's very principled attitude to Santa Claus. There is something that this hall has thought a lot about, and that other states have also thought a lot about. But I think it's good to remind Anundsen of the story that lies behind all the things we've got, about Santa Claus. There was an agreement between the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party that instructed the previous government to present matters and a settlement around the Santa Claus at large, so it's partly to set up a baker for the blacksmith, what Anundsen now does. It's the most advanced party that has to bear a lot of responsibility for all of the rounds that we've been through about Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2336	This must be due to a serious misunderstanding. This is therefore about whether the State Landing Instructions should apply to the Information Service Fund, which has its own constitutional protection under the Basic Law § 106. Thus, it is not a question of the Law on Landings and the General Provisions of the Law on Landings, but of the provisions governing the recovery and rental conditions which are more favourable than those resulting from the Law on Landings. Of course, the information society's fund should, like everyone else, relate to the law on Santa Claus. What this matter is about is an instruction that would give more favourable conditions than the Santa Claus Act adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2341	For a moment, the representative, Ola Borten Moe, will have the floor again. We're working on getting the facility to talk to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2344	Thank you, I'm not going to draw this out. Of course, I am aware of that, but these two issues are highly interrelated – and this may be admitted by a representative of Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2352	I still have to say that I think this must be due to a misunderstanding, because these matters are essentially not linked. So this isn't about the law on land fastening or land fastening in general. This is about specific provisions in relation to the Information Society's fund, and we have dealt with this very often in Stortinget. The law on emptying is the basis for all parties as usual, but the government – the representative Borten Moe is a part of the parliamentary basis of the government – has therefore gone into the process of violating the premises laid down in the law on emptying. And it has proved to be unconstitutional in terms of land retention in relation to the Information Society's fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2363	I do not intend to spend much time commenting on the history of the matter. There are more in this room who know it better than I do, but the government clearly had a different starting point than the majority in the Supreme Court found out when the matter was dealt with there. I have taken note of that, and I am pleased that there is a stir that we are implementing the 320 million allocation. kr to the Information Service Fund now. I need a few comments in relation to the pace. As I said in my main post earlier today, this is a rather complicated matter to go through. There are 1,150 Santa Claus parties that have been closed during this period. We have gone through each case thoroughly, found dates for when payments have been made in order to make correct interest calculations, and we have of course also had to check carefully that we have not received several plots several times. Now there are several thousand party fees that need to be passed through in the same way, so there has been a large amount of work. But I can assure you that we have had a good cooperation with the Information Society's fund. We have had a lot of work to do with this, and as I said, we are going to present a case to the Stortinget in connection with the presentation of a new burial law. There, we repeal the rules of the Santa Claus directive that apply to the Information Society's fund, but in practical life, it doesn't matter. The Supreme Court judgment applies, and it doesn't matter if the paragraph is there, but we'll bring a case to Stortinget after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2370	I hope I don't ruin the mood to talk about case no. 4, Inst. 116 S, on changes to the State budget of the Ministry of Knowledge. I'll try to make it short. I think there is reason to point to the importance that the Excel project located at NTNU now receives the necessary funds to continue the development of the laboratory to enable Norwegian universities, tax-paid research institutions, to participate in the development of carbon capture and storage in Norway. There is a significant majority in this room that has enormous enthusiasm for spending tens of billions of dollars on carbon capture development in Norway. Until recently, the conditions for tax-paid institutions to participate in these development projects have been poor. Today's decision is an important step in the right direction. I just find reason to remind you once again – we've had the anecdotal up several times now – that we might be winning a stage. We are not yet in the target, but we hope that the government and the majority of the population will return on a later occasion with full funding for this important project for Norway and for the technology environments around it, including in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2379	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-5. [[See pages 1585, 1586 and 1588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2395	This case is a little special. There are many cases coming from the control committee because the control committee has different roles in the Storting than the other committees. In addition to examining draft constitutions and voting and documents from the National Audit Office, it is largely up to the Committee itself to decide on the issues to be addressed to inspection cases vis-à-vis the Government. This is a control matter vis-à-vis two government members. It's a split setting, which basically follows the pattern of the opposition versus the government parties. I will begin by commenting – because it is quite fundamental – on the views of the government parties, namely that the matter should not have been dealt with either in the control committee or in the Stortingen, naturally enough. It's all connected. I disagree with that, because if the control function is to have any meaning, there must be an opportunity to deal with issues where parties violate the law they have set for themselves, about party financing. It's a very special law, because it applies to very few. So, the actors are not many – there are the number of political parties in the country. Then you could say that indirectly it is those who are covered by the law – i.e. the contributors – but it is primarily the parties involved. The law is fresh, and this is the first time we see an example of a political party with open eyes, we get to say, has broken the law – there has been no secrecy about this, at least not before the case was published, partly through the press. I think that is serious enough to bring a case in for control. It also applies to the stability of the Councils of State. So, of course, is it not decided by the Department of Justice? No, it doesn't. It's a piece of advice available from the Department of Justice. They also see themselves as government advisers. So it's clear that there could also be doubt or disagreement about the professional advice given, but in any case, it's up to the individual state council itself to declare itself havoc or incapacitated. It is ultimately more than a question of legal interpretation. As a last moment, I must also say that this violation of the Party Support Act is at least so serious that I see that the government has seen the need to tighten the law. In a draft consultation, which has been sent out, it is now proposed to tighten the law, at least as far as possible. the possibility of sanctioning batches that break the law. I want to add it on my own account, that it would certainly be missing, after you have seen this matter! The matter is about a contribution of several hundred thousand that you have kept for one year and got the value of, and that you have then returned – and pretended like nothing, that is. that you have said: then it must be over that we have apologized – it was wrong. But it's not that easy for a party to act in relation to the law, in our view. Therefore, I believe that this is all the reason why the matter is brought before Stortinget, with the seriousness of the matter, among other things. an open consultation, comitology and deliberation. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left, with partial membership of the Christian People's Party, say among other things: that they see that the fact that it was granted party support was based simply on the Central Party's need for electoral means. They describe what the setting refers to as the ‘renewable project’, i.e. a contribution to a political project that the Centre Party had launched, as if it were more of a pass than the real reason why the process was started. You point out from the government parties that it was started by people outside the party. That's just partially correct. Most people who supported this initiative had, or had had, ties with the Center Party. As further evidence that there was simply a poor economy and the need for electoral means, I refer to the letter – or e-mail, it is well now called – sent out by the then Secretary General of the Central Party, Ivar Egeberg, on 8 December 2008, which became public as part of the hearing, which reads as follows: "I'm working on funding the election campaign. It's totally hopeless for us if we don't get some money in." So if it's not going to be an expression that you need money for the election campaign, I don't know! Then one can say that it is not so dangerous in and of course whether it was electoral support, or whether it was a contribution to a project on which the Centre Party was to stand alone, that is to say to focus on the need for renewable energy, because in any case the contributions of the two companies mentioned – i.e. publicly owned companies – Eidsiva Energia and Troms Kraft, were illegal, whether they were to go to a project directed by a party or to election support. It has obviously been a wish – in retrospect at least – to give this a sign of a project. But it doesn't do anything better. Both parts are in the event of a crime. It is also a crime when you receive free services in the form of material, videos, films, brochures that are part of the same project, paid by companies that are not allowed to provide. Then you say as an excuse from the government parties that this material could also be used by others. But during the hearing, the question was raised, and the leader of the Centre party was unable to show that there were other parties offered. Other parties, as far as I know, have not said that they have known about it, so this was a well-kept secret in the Center Party. I have no objection to that – secrets within the ranks of the parties – but it is the funding that is the problem, and the party law is clear that the type of services should also be provided. The centre party didn't give it up! The second question, as I said, addressed in the vote is the question of stability. I base the opinion given by the Law Department, that based on the information provided to the Law Department, there was no instability either for the Council of State Riis-Johansen or for the Council of State Navarsete in this matter. However, it is based on the fact that the information provided to the Law Department is the complete truth. The Committee has been somewhat involved in the hearing and, of course, very much falls on the explanations provided by the Councils themselves. I cannot imagine that in any case the opposition parties in the committee find it strange that such an extensive project as the Council of State and Party leader Navarsete, underlined at the centre of the Central Party election campaign, was unknown to the Minister of State in the field, i.e. the Minister of Oil and Energy. But you have to take that into account, because that's what the Council of State says. His State Secretary said that the e-mails sent to the department were not fully read. If you had read them in their entirety, you would have known who were contributors. Well, we're going to assume that it was unknown. But what led to the strongest criticism in the Committee, from representatives of the opposition parties, is what is concluded by the following: ‘These members consider the behaviour of Navarsete in the case of unlawful party aid and the lack of information to decision-makers to be highly critical.’ This is a strong criticism in parliamentary language. The next thing is to promote a distrust proposal. That's not going to happen. The background for this is two-part. One is that a party leader and the Council of State have information that she should know could lead to instability for other members of the government, without passing this information on. However, one should not have long political experience to assume that an oil and energy minister may have complaints concerning power companies on his table. In fact, that is what is the rule – that the NVE makes the first decision at first instance, and that the department is subsequently the complainant. There are many such things on an oil and energy minister's table. So, of course, would the Council of State have been incapacitated if he had known that the companies he was dealing with were decisive contributors to the party he belonged to? You have to give your own assessments of that. I think you would at least be very close to an intrusion, especially if it was known that the party contributions at the top of it all were illegal. But there's a hypothetical consideration in this context. The fact that this information was not passed on and that Navarsete State Council acted as if it had not been given such contributions is the background to the strong criticism that is being addressed. Finally, let me just comment on one remark in the Government Party's position: in the setting on page 7, second column, the representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party say that they: ‘supports the Central Party’s decision not to publish batch-internal documents without relevance to its control function’. It is only as a background that a note that could have supported, or documented, that the information provided by the Navarsets Council on when she became acquainted with the contributors was correct – i.e., ‘could have’. I disagree with what is said here, because I believe that it is important for the control function of Storting that a Council of State can substantiate its claim with evidence. That's the one. The second is that this wording is based on a misunderstanding. Such documents may well be delivered to the Stortinget without being public. The size has access to and receives regularly, or at least frequently, documents that are not public, and then treats them. It has occurred not least in the years of operation of the Control Committee, both in this and in the last century. So this wording I hope that representatives of the government parties will comment, because if you suffer from the perception that Storting's control function cannot become aware of internal documents and keep them internal, yes, you significantly weaken the control function. And then finally, I just want to say that it wasn't so that this principle was very long stuck in the Center Party. After this was said during the hearing – that is, that you would not deliver a document, because it was part-time – the party itself sent out an internal document that was a covering letter to an invoice, in order to make it probable that you had provided the correct information yourself. And it was an internal party document that was then published on the Central Party's own initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2452	It is very clear from the opinion that the representatives of the government parties in the committee also agree with the criticism that is raised, in connection with the violation of party law, on which the representative Foss spent a lot of time. In this way, we're as clear as the opposition. What is the big discord is about stamina and responsibilities. There is nothing in the work done in the committee, in the vote, or in what we now heard from the representative, Mr Foss, who is the case rapporteur, to document the basis for the criticism that the opposition is making. That's why the positions are very disagreeable, almost from start to finish. The challenge is to ask the representative Foss what concrete statements he has to justify such a strong criticism that he has also made in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2461	The following factors — first, a party leader and councillor who is unable to enforce the Lot Finance Act and withholds information on this until the case is published. Then the money is refunded, i.e. when the central statistical agency publishes the contribution. Secondly, the attempt to cover the fact that there were real batch contributions, and there was no project support. I think it is well documented through the consultation that it was wanted to contribute to a campaign that was motivated, and not wanted to make investigations on renewable energy. As far as I know, the Center Party has made a lot of these investigations. It's one of the themes that the Center Party is capable of, and has itself focused on, so the need for further investigation into this in the middle of an election struggle seems to me to be poorly documented. As a last moment, the detention of information on these contributions by the Navarset State Council has contributed to the public’s questioning of whether it had been influenced by it in their posts. And it's in itself critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2470	We heard again a number of reasons relating to the violation of party law, and I repeat that in many ways we agree with some of those points of view. But that's not what I asked. I asked: Can the case rapporteur now say to the Stortinget that he has evidence of a concrete nature, which is such that it can be said that there is a basis for criticism in terms of stamina and responsibilities? That's the question. I'll repeat it, and you'll have another chance to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2475	Yes, I believe that the Council of State's position on stability is demonstrated by the fact that an adequate assessment of the opinion that was available from the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department has not been carried out. We have examples that the Law Department has said that yes, here there is no reason to be incapacitated, but the Council of State has nevertheless done so in order to ensure safety and independence in relation to the decision. It has not been so in this case. And point two: Yes, withholding information, sitting with knowledge that, for example, in the subcommittee, the appointment of people who are at the centre of contributors is an example of what I consider to be politically critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2482	I would like through the President to ask the representative Foss whether he feels comfortable building his political argument on a suspicion that he is actually unable to document. They have not done so in the adjustment work. Nor has anything new come out of the hearing, not through the suspension, nor now. That's what I'm about, because that's what matters first and foremost to the Storting, of course, that's the question of the stability, the office, and possibly the misinformation to the Storting. Nothing emerges, and finally we are left with a collection of political insinuations on which Foss builds his post and his political reasoning. I don't think so. But he can once again take a minute to answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2487	Thank you for giving me a chance to do that. Yes, I feel extremely comfortable with the fact that the matter has received public lighting and parliamentary treatment. I think it's helped that this doesn't happen again. I think the leader of the Center Party is now very aware of the party law if she hasn't been before, and she hasn't been. I also feel comfortable with the fact that the matter has received quite wide support. I've barely seen a single newspaper, or press agency, that has criticized the Storting to take this up, that is, the control function here would go too far. The fact that the representative of Kolberg thinks so is not very surprising. He's set to protect a government. But those that are a little bit more independent, for example. Press agencies and the media have not criticised the fact that the Storting has taken this seriously at all. It underpins my security.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2496	Foss also bases many of his reasoning on saying that in this case the law department's reasoning does not apply in full. I agree with the representative Foss that it is not that the interpretation of the Law Department always corresponds to all the challenges related to the instability of a Council of State. Absolutely not. But it's the first time in a very long time that I've heard the representative Foss, with his parliamentary experience, actually try to undermine the law department's understanding, which he's used very many times in this room with the very opposite sign. I just notice that, and I say, of course, it's an expression that you don't have anywhere else to go to find a legitimacy for the positions you have in the setting. At the end of this line, this is by holding back information in batch-internal documents. If so, I would say that if the representative on behalf of his party now announces a new practice in the field of party internal documents for the Right, I note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2505	No, that's not necessary. It's already initiated the Center Party. The centre party has published internal party documents in this matter, but just not what we asked for. So you don't have to ask us that, you can ask the Center Party about it. It's wrong that I'm undermining the Justice Department's law department. I have underlined that they have a good legal assessment of it, but that is not all, and there is the representative Kolberg and I agree. A political assessment is needed in addition to the legal one. During the hearing, I guess the Left's representative, Skei Grande, gave an example of the fact that a government council was actually told the following from the Law Department: You are not involved in this matter. But the Council of State said, to be sure, I'll actually be incapacitated, because just that it's raised questions about my capacity, is so serious that I choose to declare myself incapacitated in the matter. It is not to waive responsibility, because there is always another local council that does the job, but it is to ensure that the matter is dealt with with with with full integrity and independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2515	I got a small impression of this change in line that there was really a need for a hearing in order for the party leaders in the Center Party to learn the code – not really for the hearing and for its part. For the fact is that the party leader got flat, as flat as it was possible to lay down. The money was paid back. There was no intrusion. Nevertheless, the Storting must spend time on this circus, which has been under the control of, among other things. Mr Foss. My question is: after this, does the representative think that it is the right use of the National Assembly to run a course for party leaders on how to manage money, and why does it end only with suspicion and not with distrust?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2522	No, it should be unnecessary to pursue such a course, but when party leaders, or at least parties, who themselves have participated in the adoption of the law, do not understand the law and do not remember it, I think it is quite important. And I think it's also important to demonstrate to most people, voters, call it what you want, the big people, that when parties make laws for themselves, they also have to apply. It is true that the Council of State of Navarsete has, on a number of occasions, left itself flat in the press, but I still take the control function of the Stortinge so seriously that I believe that press attention in itself does not necessitate parliamentary scrutiny in addition. In the old days, SV was very concerned with the control function of Stortingen. In the last five years, it's been a little less busy. I guess it can't be completely random.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2531	The President will ask that the concept of ‘to lie down’, in particular used for other representatives and state councils, be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2534	It's hard when you're asked about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2539	I meant both representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2542	I would like to say that the representative Foss spoke a lot about the fact that the control committee is handling non-public information, and that there has never been a problem. Well, it's also that the Committee's comments are basically secret until they are issued. Nevertheless, for some strange reason, we could read the setting in today's business ten days before it was finished. Then I want to ask Foss about something, because Foss is the one who's been sitting on the biggest of all of us, and he's the one who should have the greatest knowledge of what belongs in this great hall and not. I would argue that there are some stability assessments that are relevant to this room. Has the government been a hafile? Have they done their duties properly? What happens internally in the parties, what happens in relation to the party leaders, basically has nothing to do with this hall. So at first I just thought I'd ask if Foss agreed with me in such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2549	It is a comprehensive question to answer, but at the end of the day, within the Constitution and the law and the law, the representatives themselves decide what belongs in the Stortinget. I guess that's a long tradition for that. Then we have some unwritten rules about the relationship between big business and government, which I am a strong supporter of respecting. But I think it's a little too formalistic to say that a council of states is a council of states from 9 to 16 and then party leader from 9 p.m. 16 and beyond the evening and the night, and that last thing we have nothing to do with. That, I think, is a consideration that at least does not belong in a modern perception of the Storting and the control function of the Storting, as long as the party leader is a member of the government, the King's council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2554	So party leaders who are not members of the King's council can never be subjected to the control function of the Storting. Then you have to be a member of the government. I don't think it's immediate. I think it's whether or not the Council of State has been havoc, which is at the heart of this issue. That is the question to be highlighted by any audit hearing, a matter in the control committee, and that is what we are going to spend time on in this Chamber. Here the Department of Law has given a very thorough assessment. In fact, Foss draws it into doubt. The question is: what has been added to this debate with added value through the extensive process that Foss has put into the control committee and, finally, in the Chamber this evening?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2559	Just two comments: there are probably a lot of examples in history that party leaders who have not been members of Parliament, the Stortinget, have been subjected to criticism. I have almost not experienced debates without it having happened, whether it was party leader Erling Norvik in his time, or it was Reulf Steen, or similar. They have been quoted and subjected to comments and criticism from the pulpit – not as a matter of control, but the Storting is free to comment on what they want in political life. So to the stability: it is that Parliament, the Stortinget, must be able to have an opinion of a Council of State's handling of its instability regardless of the Law Department's assessment. The law department's assessment is a advice. It is the Council of State who is responsible for the decision and says that, in the light of the advice I have received, I will declare myself hapless or incapacitated. It is the decision of the Council of State and, as long as it is a decision of the Council of State, it concerns the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2566	Let's stay a little bit close to the question of stability and the Law Department, because the Law Department is being questioned. There are a number of lawyers who have mentioned something else. You'll always be able to find lawyers who mean something other than other lawyers. You go a long way in saying that if you knew, you would have been incapacitated. Is there a definition on which the representative Foss stands?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2571	Now I had a little problem understanding the question. Is that a definition? Well, there is no definition, but representatives of the opposition parties say in the setting that yes, a government council dealing with matters relating to companies that have been active contributors could be incapacitated – yes, with great probability. But it's like I said in my post: it's going to be a hypothetical assessment, because it depends on the nature of the matter, etc. But here it has been – or to say it in another way: the reason why this is forbidden, that is a reason for it, is that companies under public ownership can easily come to the table of a government council, not as one of many things, not as a farm of 20,000 farms, but as one single matter that concerns only that company. That is why it is prohibited, and therefore there is instability in these cases, to which it is particularly important to be adjudicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2577	The interesting question is whether you draw the boundaries of publicly owned companies or whether this also applies to all companies and all contributors. For all companies and all contributors, there are some interesting complications in relation to any subsequent government participation with the Right Party. But I'll come back to that. However, I only have one last question, and it is true that the Committee's position goes very far in insinuating that you really don't believe the explanations that are given. It is assumed that you do not believe what our government councils and my party leader answer questions from the representative Foss, among others. Then my simple question becomes: Does Foss think that the Central Party was aware that this was illegal party support when they received it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2584	First of all, the attitude only mentions companies that are publicly owned, and so it's completely impossible for the representative Borten Moe, even though he never will, to talk about anything else. Only publicly owned companies are mentioned in the statement. Inability or instability in relation to other contributors who are thus allowed to give is not mentioned in the vote and is therefore not a topic for the debate. To the last question, I'm going to use the explanations. But I allowed myself to express my surprise – and I am not alone about that in the setting – that the oil and energy minister was unknown to a project that was so central to the party's election campaign as renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2594	Today, in this Chamber, we are going to put a sentence on a matter which has, in a sense, been before the public for a large part of the harvest. I mean, it's about time. I'm going to go straight to the heart of the matter: the issue of the relationship between Navarsete and Riis-Johansen to the instability or to the stability of the central bank gifts. But I'll first come up with some general considerations. Norwegian policies are characterised by compromise and cooperation. It's our culture and our history that facilitates it. But sometimes politics is tough. It is filled with strife and intransigence – sometimes because much is at stake, sometimes because the contradictions of interest cannot be raised and resolved by compromise. This matter and the position of the Committee have such an impact. The parties to the government are simply in disagreement with the opposition from the beginning to the end. Let me also make it clear that when I talk about the opposition in this context, it does not include the Christian People's Party. There is a great difference between the approach of the Christian People's Party in this matter and that of the other opposition. Now, of course, we believe that the opposition has what we can call the right of attack. At the same time, we are in the bulk of big business when, for our part, we invoke the right of defence. Our comments in the setting reflect this right. We present a political defense of the relevant Central Party Councils, but our comments are more than a compulsory defence. We believe that the committee's proceedings have given us the right. This has become an excessive matter – yes, a lot of criticism and suspicion that in retrospect turns out to be lacking a factual basis. At no point, with a clear exception for infringements of the Party Act, does the Committee's proceedings show that the State Councils concerned have been inhabitable or that the appointment has been contrary to constitutional practice. The essence of the matter is this: the centre party has received financial support from two publicly owned power companies. It was reported as party support, but the transfers of funds from Eidsiva Energi and Troms Kraft were contrary to the law on certain aspects of the political parties – that is, what is called the Party Act. That is, of course, not acceptable, as the rapporteur said, and it is critical. The criticism must be addressed both to the Centre Party and to the relevant companies. The management of the centre party has taken self-criticism on this and has paid back the money as it became clear that the support was illegal. We are clearly in the position that this crime is critical. Of course we are. Because the law is not only solar at this point, but it's also reasonable and obvious. It shall not be possible for public companies to finance political parties, and in so doing: it shall not be possible for politicians to influence public companies to broker their own cake. This is ultimately about the legitimacy of the regime. The law has been created and adopted to prevent corruption at this point, and I clearly express my hope that we will release several such issues in Norwegian policy. We can't stand it anymore. An overall opposition considers that the illegal lot aid granted by the Centre Party raises the question of whether penalties should be excluded, even if the aid was repaid. It is permissible for the parties to apply the penalty which involves the suspension of State aid. They further argue that party law should consider these issues. Based on what the leader himself has said in the media and the fact that there has now been a consultation note on changes in party law, I do not find it natural to make such a recommendation now from my side. It is more natural that we discuss the forms of sanctions on a general basis when the new law comes to treatment. But this part of the case is beyond the Constitutional Control of the Storting. The most important thing in this case has also been the possible consequences of this illegal party aid for the government council of Navarsete and the government council of Riis-Johansen. A Council of States is responsible, both constitutionally, parliamentaryly and politically, for the decisions which she or he makes. In the decision-making situation, they are obliged to be Havili. In our context, the question of viability has both a legal and a political dimension. We note that the Legal Department of Justice and the Police Department has assessed the sustainability of Navarsets and Riis-Johansen as a result of the financial support from Eidsiva Energi and Troms Kraft to the Center Party and found it legally in order. It is established that the two Councils of State have not been involved in the matters in question. The law department is autonomous. It enjoys cross-political respect through changing times and should also have the right to be taken seriously in this matter. But as we've already heard in the line change, the opposition suddenly allows itself in this case to question the law department's authority because a couple of lawyers have had objections, and they are duly quoted in the comments because they need them as witnesses. But the opposition uses in many other cases, as I also said in the line change with the representative Foss, the Law Department in the very opposite way. What is this? It's an expression, as I said in the change of line, and as I repeat in my post, that the opposition needs that kind of suspicion also of the government's law department in order to document its claims and political insinuations. It's not acting with seriousness and ingenuity, I'd say. It's the opposite of turning the matter into a political game. In the comments, the opposition points to the fact that it is more than legal. It is also clearly correct, but in this case it is not particularly relevant. Neither the correspondence between the Committee and the departments concerned nor the open hearing has demonstrated that the State Councils in question have acted in a way, taken decisions and taken decisions contrary to what is called proper and good office. It's not even likely. On the contrary, and therefore – and only because of this – the governments concerned have full confidence in the majority of the population and in the government parties. We also record that the opposition, despite its strongly critical comments, does not allow the matter to become part of any kind of ministerial storm. This also speaks its own language and is probably a clear demonstration that the opposition has had no basis for its strong criticism. So to the stability of what we're really asking about in this case. It is a question of whether the financial contributions of Eidsiva Energi and Troms Kraft have led to the impartial treatment of the case concerning these companies and whether the two companies have renewed the political benefits of their financial contributions. The answer to that main question is no. It is the opposition’s – or rather – duty of all of us to pursue state councils in the event of a suspicion of miscarriage. However, the Committee on Control and Constitution must also take care of its role, with a certain degree of ingenuity. Right, the Advance Party and the Left do not, in my view, do this in this matter. In fact, the three parties go so far that they accuse – and we heard that the representative Foss repeat here in his speeches and in the lines – a political party for having planned illegalities. ‘With open eyes,’ said the representative Foss. When you say that in the Greatness Hall, you have to be able to cover it, just to say it a little popular. It is also not possible to read the setting at this point differently, when it is said that the renewable project is designed to provide money for the Central Party election campaign. It is, as I have said, really to go far, all the time the renewable project was initiated by the industry itself, an industry that hardly thought election campaign for the Center Party, but a good election campaign for their cause: renewable energy. Let me remind you in this regard of a few things. Firstly, the Democratic Finance Committee decided in due course that the parties must have access to: ‘to conclude more or less binding political agreements — including with partners wishing to contribute with general financial support’. I myself was a member of this sample and followed this discussion closely. This had something to do with the entire political environment and the relationship with contributors. There was no wish from the sample at any point to suspect that political parties received support, thereby accusing them of being corrupt, direct or indirect. However, the Committee recommended that the parties make a declaration that such agreements had been concluded. Paradoxically, it was in such a statement or report that it appeared that the aid from the two companies was illegal. Few of them plan illegalities in order to report them back to the public. This clearly shows that the centre party did not plan this in order to get party support. The claim that this is nothing but a political insinuation, without political evidence, without actual evidence. It was also underlined in the line exchange we had. The representative Foss did not specifically answer this question. Secondly, it is important to note that during the consultation it appeared that matters dealt with by the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the field of renewable energy are so strongly regulated that the exercise of political leadership is almost impossible — as the Council of State said in the hearing. That means Riis-Johansen's ability to influence decisions for the benefit of the two companies had not been implemented even if he had known and wanted to do so. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, in their comments, say the following: ‘if the Riis-Johansen State Council had known that the two power companies had been contributors to the renewable project, he would have probably been incapacitated.’ [[...]] Probably incapacitated — once again an insinuation. They don't go anymore, because they can't prove it. There is once again an example of what the entire setting and the representative Foss’ posts documented. This is a political attack on the central party councils without any concrete politically documented content, because not even here can they say that there has been bad office on the part of Riis-Johansen. Again, it is demonstrated that this is not really a matter, but a political attack. Let me just add a point about the stability in relation to the appointment of the Dark Forest Rinnan as director of Avinor, who was also inside of Foss. It is clear that Darkved Rinnan was proposed by a consulting company that the Ministry of Transport had engaged in in connection with the fact that Avinor needed a new director – otherwise not an unusual way to do so. So it was not the council, not even her office, but a consulting company that first found Darkved Rinnan – probably because he was qualified, not least because he had been a member of the board at Oslo Airport Gardermoen and thus knew the subject area. In the hearing, the representative Foss asked Navarsete for the name of the Darkwood Rinnan in the document that was participative. It confirmed the Council of State. But suspecting it in the direction that this was connected to this appointment is again an insinuation, which I believe does not belong in the main hall. There is no basis for making such a link, and it cannot be such in a small political environment as the Norwegian is, that when you know of a name, you have heard of a name and since it appoints it, it can be suspicious. I assume that the representative Foss, who has been a member of the government and a member of the Right and Norwegian policies for many years, has heard many names and knows many people, but yet, of course, with full legitimacy, has been able to appoint people to different positions without anyone in this room thinking that this was a kind of unfair connection. I say this so clearly, because I don't think this can be said here in Stortinget or in a staging position without you can document the claim more concretely and more accurately than what is actually done. It is important for me to make it clear that control of power and criticism of abuse of power are among the major natural core tasks, and I realize that this is particularly important in a time of majority rule. Here, Stortinget has a shared responsibility – a responsibility I believe the positioning parties have shown and taken during this period. But it is also a matter of serious responsibility. In this I add that Storting's character mark should be principled and reprobate behaviour. In this case, on the basis of what I have said, I believe that doubts can be raised if this has been the case. Sometimes it seemed that the need to hang out and doubt both sincere explanations and real excuses has taken over. For our – the majority – it has been right and important to point out that violations of party law have been detected and admitted, but that this in turn has not resulted in critically high levels of office on the part of the relevant state councils. This has been a good time for the Committee to examine. Nothing new has emerged during the Committee's proceedings or during the hearing. Now I'm saying it's a time for everything. Now is the time to put this behind us, expand the field of vision and address new tasks and new challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2645	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for a good work on a case that has shown clear lines in the examination of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Then I would like to say a few words about whether this matter falls naturally within the control of Storting – not least in the light of the previous representative's comments. It is necessary both for this reason and because NTB wrote yesterday a notice that the Government Parties are in doubt as to whether this falls under the fundamental statutory control responsibility of the Stortinge, exercised through the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee. It should be noted that at the heart of this case is whether government councils have acted impartially in their proceedings on specific matters and whether a government council has been aware that gifts of money from specific companies can or may not affect the impartiality of the department. The impartiality of administration is a fundamental premise on the part of Stortinget. In cases where there is a basis for asking questions about such impartiality and the judgement of state councils on such issues, it is the duty of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to carry out further investigations. I would therefore like to distance myself from claims that these kinds of cases naturally do not fall within the control of this committee. The fact that the position, once represented by the representative of Kolberg, claims that what has been presented by the opposition is not sufficient evidence does not, of course, change this. The core of the question is linked to a financial contribution from Eidsiva Energi with NOK 500000 and Troms Kraft AS with NOK 200000. In addition, funding comes from electoral material. The only government council that has recognized that she knew about the gifts of money is the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete. The fact that she, as the Council of State, is familiar with the gifts of money to her own party without giving rise to a single thought that this could create stability challenges for some central party councils appears to be incomprehensible. Energy companies are likely to have close contact points with the Ministry of Oil and Energy from time to time. It would be close to believing that it was the duty of the Council of State to inform relevant Councils of such financial support in order to ensure against claims of reduced impartiality, special treatment of companies and instability. The centre party received 500,000 kroner in party support from Eidsiva Energi AS, in addition to funding election campaign material. A few months after the Central Party received the election campaign support from Eidsiva Energi, the group leader of the company was appointed Chairman of Avinor AS, and it was the central party council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who was in charge of the appointment. The matter was dealt with by the government's subcommittees, where the Council of State Navarsete is a member. About the same time Eidsiva Energi AS received a district heating concession at Gjøvik by the state council Terje Riis-Johansen, after the original competitor, Daimyo Rindi, had felt so strongly politically opposed that they withdrew from the process. In order to further clarify a kind of contact and lack of understanding on how to handle this, invoices have been sent from the main organisation of the Centre Party directly to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, among others. for an advertisement printed in the election campaign in VG on 4 September 2009. The invoice was not paid by the Ministry, and the Council of State has said that he does not understand how such misunderstandings can happen. I understand that he doesn't understand, because it's almost incredible. But it can help to give a picture of relationships and misunderstandings that I think we can safely call unusual. It is also unusual that a Council of State does not show any interest in the work of its own party within the areas of responsibility of its own Council of State. It is clear that Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, was familiar with the project work of the Central Party on renewable energy, and that external funding was to be collected. Normal care should be taken to ensure that the Council of State conducted some studies related to funding to ensure itself against allegations of lack of impartiality in his duties. It did not find Riis-Johansen natural. It is, in our opinion, an expression of poor judgment. It is a challenge in this matter that Riis-Johansen, as the Council of State, somehow does not take responsibility for the uncertainty created around his department's handling of concrete matters, because he has deliberately failed to seek relevant information. It's critical. To a large extent, reference has been made to the Legal Department's opinion on the stability of the Central Party Councils as a kind of evidence that the Councils of State were not inhabitable during the proceedings in the Department. In addition, it is necessary to add that stability assessments should normally be carried out before the initiation of proceedings. The Law Department has also made this explicitly clear in its opinion. In addition, it is not the Law Department, but the individual State Council itself who takes a decision on the question of viability. The opinion of the Legal Service is to consider as a basis or kind of legal input for the assessment of the State Councils’ own sustainability. Stability assessment after completion of proceedings will be of very little value, taking into account in particular that the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs Department is considered to be a government body and thus provides guidance on legal issues for the government agency: there is no independent legal body. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has itself clarified its role in a letter to the Civil Ombudsman mentioned in the Official Journal of Bergen on 28 October this year. It is also worth noting that the Law Department has assessed the matter solely on the basis of the information provided by the State Councils themselves. They have not assessed the credibility of the information or otherwise examined its basis. The credibility of state councils has been tested in this matter, and it is worth noting that an overall opposition poses clear questions in particular in the production of Council of State Terje Riis-Johansen. However, it is difficult to base the Riis-Johansen himself as right, but both the Progress Party, the Right and the Left believe that the Council of State would probably have been in a position to deal with the indicated cases if he had known about the lot aid. It is also clear, as I see it, that there is a likelihood of the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen State Secretary Sigrid Hjørnegård being aware that Eidsiva Energia AS has been among the contributors to the renewable project, because this was clearly in an e-mail that she answered herself. After I understood, it was also the State Secretary who largely managed the dialogue with Daimyo Rindi during the review process, where they felt politically opposed in the department. The government parties consider that the opposition does not have a basis for criticising the Navarsete and Riis-Johansen State Councils and consider it necessary in the vote to state clearly that they have confidence in those State Councils. It is in itself an interesting practice that a minority in a committee express confidence in the Council of States. I'll leave it. It is clear that the Navarsete State Council has been familiar with the illegal party support to the Center Party, and who has made the contributions. It is clearly important for the Storting to assess the suitability of a Council of State on the basis of the assessments that a Council of State makes or fails to make. As mentioned earlier, therefore, the impartiality of the administration is crucial for citizens' confidence in administration. The fact that a government council then does not see that financial support from specific companies in given situations can create bonds, or at least create a suspicion of bonds, between the party of state councils and the relevant contributor in the performance of their duties, appears to be difficult to understand. That this information was not considered relevant to mention during the treatment of the government sub-committees when the group director of Eidsiva Energia, who had provided support to the Centre Party, was appointed Chairman of Avinor AS by a central party council, appears to be very difficult to understand. I am amazed that the government parties believe that these assessments appear to be reliable and that there is no basis for criticism. I disagree with that assessment. However, I am pleased that the Council of Ministers of Navarsete itself has acknowledged that she should handle the information differently, and informed, among other things. Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen. These things cannot be considered to be internal party relationships. These are assessments, actions and omissions which directly interfere with the possibility of sound administration. Therefore, the management of this whole case complex by the Navarsete State Council is highly critical. The last thing I want to touch on is the issue of possible discrimination between energy companies in the Oil and Energy Department. There may be grounds for questioning whether Eidsiva Energi AS has been favourably discriminated against in the award of district heating concession at Gjøvik. The claims made in the media may suggest that. When Eidsiva Energi AS requested that the decision of NVE be given suspensive effect, the department turned around and supported Eidsiva Energi AS. According to the NVE, this was very unusual. When Daimyo Rendi AS asked for the same answer in another case concerning the award of a district heating concession in Halden, the answer was no in cash. In the open hearing of the inspection, the Council of State, by its head of mission, also provided incorrect information as to what I could find out about the reasons for this decision. The Council of State claimed that he would follow this further up, but I have not been able to figure out how this might have been followed further by the Council of State. This as a whole has been a boring matter for political Norway. I am afraid this matter adds further nourishment to the political debate. The question of viability needs to be taken seriously. It is about ensuring trust and impartiality in the proceedings and preventing corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2694	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2697	The representative expressed a surprise that the government parties express confidence in the government council in the suspension. If that's just to say that when the members of the government are being subjected to such a politically unaccountable criticism as one tries to give legitimacy to what is written in the ballot, we say this very clearly. Because we believe that you are wrong. And there was nothing in that post we now heard from the representative Anundsen that changes it. He comes with insinuations, and I'm asking Stortinget to notice about the relationship with the companies that are affected. He says e.g. on the last treatment: ‘may indicate’ what appears in the press — ‘may indicate’ — without being able to say anything more concrete. We look at this point after point after point, and I can assure the representative that if it had been this way, [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2702	Representative Anundsen, in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2705	President, I did not realize that the representative Kolberg asked any questions, so I have basically nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2710	No, but that's because he won't listen. Excuse me, President. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2716	Does the representative ask for a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2719	Yes, please. It's just that he doesn't want to answer the issue. When I confronted the representative Foss immediately, he answered around, and so now the representative Anundsen, who is the chairman of the committee, will not answer the question either: where is the evidence of instability, where is the evidence of a behavior that you can call non-constitutional? That was at least one question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2724	Then I can gladly refer to the post I just made, where these things were relatively well mentioned. I understand that the representative of Kolberg finds it annoying that there is no e-mail link or a specific case that says that this is a breach of the law. But if that had happened, of course, the conclusion would have been different, because then there would have been no basis for having confidence in the state councils that are currently sitting and listening in the main hall. What we've done is evaluate what we have available, and conclude based on it. That the representative of Kolberg doesn't think it's good enough, I could basically say that before this line was held. And I think, no matter what I'm going to say in the next line shift, never that we're going to get there that the representative Kolberg will be pleased with my answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2729	The last representative, Anundsen, now says, is absolutely correct. That's because there's arguments that don't hold. But let me now take another topic: it's related to what Anundsen has said in the media in connection with the law department's treatment. We've been into it a lot. The representative Anundsen is also head of the control committee, and he said: we cannot trust a law department that is the government's tool. I would like to hear Mr Anundsen's comment on this now that we are standing here in the storeroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2736	I'm going to be happy to do that, and I'm very happy with that question. So the Department of Justice itself says that they're a tool for the government. They advise the government on legal issues. And I have to say that the Law Department normally, which has a number of competent lawyers, will come up with relatively good legal considerations in many contexts. But it has now been shown in three Supreme Court judgments, in fact this year, that the Law Department has been wrong. And that means that it's not that the law department's opinions are more than just that: legal opinions and considerations. And so they belong to the government apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2741	There is no doubt that the representative Anundsen says this about the legal assessments because it creates an impression of suspicion. They acquit someone who really ought to be judged. It's one way of getting a suspicion. Then the representative, Anundsen, says that it's boring for politics to keep up with it. But who in all days has pushed this forward, and the Storting has spent hours and days on this matter? That's exactly the leader of the committee. He really needs to be able to take responsibility for being involved and ruining politics, as long as what happened was that people got flat -- no, I'm not allowed to say that -- they regret what they had done, they paid back, and the case was settled. So start the ‘Detective Bureau Foss and Anundsen’. Why are we going to do this, leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2748	That's what I thought was a strange line. I believe that the Control and Constitutional Committee has done a thorough and good job here. It is quite wrong when it is claimed that nothing appeared in the open hearing. It did. Among other things, Councillor Navarset's complaint for her handling ahead. It wouldn't come out without us having an open hearing. There is a number of information about this matter that it has been important to discuss. I honestly believe that if this house is not concerned with ensuring trust in government's treatment, impartiality in administration's handling of matters, then what should we be concerned about? It was quite clear until we held the hearing and to some extent until today, to what extent this impartiality had been real. That, I think, is a very central point on which this committee is going to work. Who has brought this forward? Of course, it is the inability of these councils to share information, especially when the Council of Ministers of Navarsete. All of this would have been avoided if it had called early on the bell of potential instability conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2757	I have to say that the leader of the committee has a very bad case. What I very much regret is that he is eager to weaken the confidence of politics by spreading distrust, mistrust, and making half-truth claims, and even smiling at the fact that we in the government party express confidence in our government councils. It was funny, I saw the leaders of the committee found. But it's precisely because this whole thing is all about suspecting the Center Party – and suspecting and actually weakening the government – that you're doing this game and the circus from the committee leader's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2762	That line really disappoints me a lot. First of all, it's not like this is game and circus – it should be on your mind. Secondly, there is no question of suspecting anyone. It's about taking a serious situation seriously. This is about information that has been made available to the public on the lack of assessment and stability. As I said in my previous answer, this would have been avoided if the Council of Ministers of Navarsete had seen that direct gifts of money of the magnitude of companies that would, of course, occupy a department directed by the Center Party – if it had only called one bell, and she had thought that this might create some challenges, this would not have been a matter. If it's not a matter for the Stortinget to discuss and examine the assessment capabilities of the state councils in these kind of important issues of stability, then I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2769	I sat and listened with great interest to the post of the chairman of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. He first questioned the Law Department, questioned the credibility of the state councils, to my party leader, questioned impartiality in administration, thought that there could possibly be room for – and had been – discrimination, and then thought that the matter had led to political contempt, summarizing everything together with his work and his mission was to seek that we as politicians, we as a body, should ensure the confidence of the people. Yes, then the good question is: When you cannot fill the insinuations you come with, do you believe that all these questions, which you also have in writing in the vote, help to give this assembly and this body the trust it deserves?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2774	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2780	I would like to challenge the representative, Anundsen, to give a slightly more complete answer to that issue. I believe that it deserves a real answer, not a simple yes or a simple no, but that he also thinks a little loudly for us to explain how one believes that the insinuations that one has trouble covering and proving help to give us the confidence we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2785	I disagree fundamentally with the premise for the question, precisely that there should be insinuations that cannot be overcome. I believe it is clearly documented that the Council of State Navarsete did not carry out the assessment that a Council of State should make of the information that a Council of State has, of party support, when she knows that the companies behind the party support may be involved in matters dealt with by state councils or by departments governed by the central government councils of the Central Party. So I really mean the whole basis and the premise for the question is wrong. The starting point here is that we need to be able to assess the ability of a government council to assess its own viability. It is not useful, even if one has tried to do so, to follow up on a continuous basis with an ex-post stability assessment by the Law Department, and based only on the Councils own stories — or explanations, perhaps a better word.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2792	The President now wants the line change to be over soon, but the representative Ola Borten Moe will have a last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2795	In other words, one insinuates again that the basis that the departments, the government and the state councils have sent to the Law Department is flawed or incorrect. I think it is a very serious claim to join this room, without any indication of any basis to point out things that indicate that this is wrong. But it must therefore be borne in mind by the representative of Anundsen. But then I just want to ask Anundsen about the premise for his entire argument, namely, if it had been so that Riis-Johansen State Council knew that Eidsiva Energi had been a donor to the Center Party, how can you be so sure that it would have led to instability? After all, there are many interests that contribute to party financing in this society. There are trade unions, there are companies, there are business organisations, but I have not seen that the representative Anundsen raised a question on a principle basis as to whether it leads to instability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2802	Nor have we ever said that would have led to instability. We've said that it could probably have led to instability. What is the challenge in this case is that Terje Riis-Johansen has been deprived of the opportunity to make this assessment. If he had been familiar with that gift of money, the councillor Riis-Johansen would have been able to assess his viability in the light of a statement from the Law Department. I am absolutely convinced that Terje Riis-Johansen is a relatively reasonable guy who would see that this could create challenges in relation to his position in this specific complaint case, which is part of the basis for this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2809	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2812	I shall be relatively brief because the representative of Kolberg has done some good for the clear view of the government parties in this matter. I now also thought, after the line change, that it is quite clear that there is a thin case opposition now well to have a game about. It's very exaggerated language usage, it's suspicion, and it's bad answers to get when we ask for documentation. Cooking soup on a nail was something called before, and this looks a little like it. So here we have a party leader who has said that she has done something wrong, the money is paid back, no one is inhabitable, and then I count as "end of story". But then a difficult process started in which Parliament should spend hours and days listening to different things, having hearings, calling people on the carpet – in general, a lot of time, and then the conclusion is: no mistrust. There are no conclusions. It is only to continue in the same track that you have run all the way: suspicion. I found it regrettable that Storting's most driven representative and the committee's leader here almost operate in free dressage when it comes to these issues, and have approached their own agency to drive this case forward. It's a shame, because it's not like we're here at Stortinget to run the detective agency. At Stortinget, we actually keep on adopting budgets and dealing with matters – and running serious issues. I found this matter to be unprofessional. I have nothing against it if representatives Foss and Anundsen were to want to run a detective agency, but they have to do that outside this house after my opinion. I record that out in the media this case has been a success for the Progress Party and the Right, because there's our noise all the way. One has managed to suspect the Center Party and thus also the government through the noise project that one has had outside the house. But I don't think it's going to drive on the Stortinget. The size shall take on tasks in accordance with the principle of power distribution and not carry on as today. So we're not going to run like a detective's agency, not as a police department, not as a prosecutor's office, not as a judge. We're some of the people who initially talked about a lawbreaker. None of the opposition accepts any mistrust proposal. Saka runs into the sand. Foss and Anundsen's arrangements have been closed in a way, but now we need what goes on at Stortinget, to be proper, tidy, and worthy of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2827	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2830	I did not take a line on the representative of Kolberg because I have lived so long that I have given up the idea of making the representative of Kolberg appear as critical of the power of the Workers' Party. I don't know if I'm alone about it, but I have a sense that there's a part of us that's probably in that group. But I put the representative Langeland in a slightly different group. He has indeed been critical of his own party so that it holds, and in part also of the «power» so that it holds. That's why I also find it strange that he calls it a controlling hearing to see if a government council has acted impartially, a circus. Is this really the representative of Langeland of good old brand? Or is he out of line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2837	I see that the representative Foss refers to me as a living type from Rogaland in the book, so I understand the basic question, even when the representative has been in opposition for 30 years. But I think the representatives Foss and Anundsen, who are the main actors in this case, have a very thin case. What happened was that the Council of State allowed itself – I do not come up with a better word than that word – to complain. No one was inhabile, the money was paid back. The matter was resolved in my opinion. So this is what I call "The Detectives' Bureau Foss and Anundsen" and I'm going to continue this case, which I think is a circus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2842	I also noticed another argument, namely that the case did not lead to a proposal for mistrust in the case, and therefore it should not be a matter for inspection. Then I just want to ask the representative to think about how many control hearings he has been on during his brief term in the committee – not to say if you were to add the previous magnification period – that have led to hearings and wide-ranging positions without any distrust, but with a certain criticism, perhaps, of state councils. So if you go back in time, you'll find this under the Bondevik II government, that there has been such criticism without any mistrust suggestions. I think it is a new parliamentary practice to refrain from hearings and matters in the Committee on Control if it is not mistrusted. In that case, it would be a restriction on the control function that would be contrary to what SV has accomplished – in order to use the expression a little pompous – to recent parliamentary history. But at least it includes as long as SV has existed!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2850	As the majority said in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, we felt that we should not make a case on this as long as all things were settled. And then I see that one now continues with the strategy that one had then, simply a suspicion of things that have happened, without presenting the facts. It's a way to work that I don't like. I like to get clear words for the money, to say it like that. If there's something wrong, we'll clear it off the road. Then it was cleared by the way of the party leader in the Center Party itself. Then why should we continue with this circus? Then I feel that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a different agenda, and I don't like it. I like that you're dealing with the issues that are important, that one fights the political battles, honestly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2855	It is not possible to hide that the government parties before the matter was opened up in the committee felt that nothing new would come up. And then it's no wonder that they mean it throughout the process. They've decided that no matter what happens here, no matter what the state councils answer, nothing new comes out. They also managed to say that the Council of State's new recognition that a party colleague should have been informed about the matter was not new because it had not been in a newspaper. In fact, I believe Parliament must have its own agenda and not just follow the media's control activities. Finally, I also wonder that SV now believes that the law department's understanding cannot be discussed in Stortinget. Where would we have been if the Storting had not had the freedom to discuss the Law Department's interpretation of the provisions on shipping taxes or the Information Society's fund? We know that there was disagreement in the government in both cases. There was disagreement in the government parties, and the government lost in the Supreme Court, and so the Storting should not have the opportunity to go in and have an open discussion about professional good advice from the Law Department, but on which it is possible to have an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2862	I have never, as far as I know, refused to discuss anything at all. I'll never do that either. I mean absolutely that open debate on everything possible is very good. Even the Right comes with, I want to be heard, also Per-Christian Foss' statements. What I don't like is when it becomes a circus out of things that really matter to something else, as I see this case. The lead of the centre party says they have made a mistake. The money has been paid back. The matter is, in principle, settled, and so on, a matter in the Storting, where Parliament spends a lot of time on something that should not be spent on, and on which the representative Anundsen says is boring for politics. Then the representative Foss, along with Anundsen, is involved in weakening policy content. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2867	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2870	The size puts in the evening dot for a case that has gained a lot of attention throughout the autumn. Something is legitimate attention, somewhat enhanced by proportions because of the need someone has had for political games. Anyway, it's time for a dot. First of all, the facts of the matter: the Central Party has received illegal financial support from Troms Kraft and Eidsiva Energi. These conditions have been acknowledged, sorry and the money has been refunded. It should never have happened, and it won't happen again. And: Right, the Progress Party and the Left have run a close race on the Control Committee. That's why we're here today. Let me raise some aspects. Firstly, illegal financial support. This is serious, and it must have clear consequences. Here I think both the newspapers and the public have done a good and relevant job. At that point, I agree with Per-Christian Foss. Publicity and light are often the most effective. I'm glad that my own party has been open about all of these matters all the way, and put all the necessary cards on the table to illustrate the facts of the matter and the content of the matter. But that's not a matter for this hall. Unless we start a court-martial process, we're neither law-enforcement nor court-martial. We have other authorities to take care of that, if necessary. Another question that has been raised is: What has happened in the Center Party when? Both the media and the opposition have been involved in this. All this I agree may have an interest in the public space, for the public. But how things work or how things don't work in the Center Party is also not a matter for this hall. It is the central party's own bodies which in that case have to be assessed. It is the central party's own bodies that have to draw the conclusions and, if necessary, make price changes if you think that there are things that need to be corrected. In other words, this hall does not, at my discretion, know the Centre Party or the Central Party's main organisation. On the other hand, with regard to the responsibilities of the Councils of State, the stability of the Councils, there is a case for this Chamber. Here are the relevant questions to be raised: Have the Councils done their job correctly? Have they been Haviles? Has there been undue influence in individual cases? In order to assess this, we, as the committee, have spent a lot of time – something that is not ours, like the internal flow of information in the party, and why we have thought what – i.e. the inner life of people. However, it must be borne in mind by the opposition. But also issues of viability have been central. The State Councils took the case early and on their own initiative with the Law Department in order to clarify the question of viability in the usual way. The response from the Law Department was available in October, i.e. in good time before the committee gave its opinion. It turned out to be fasitating: every state government has been a hafile. State Secretary Hjørnegård has also been havoc. There is therefore no reason to criticise the state councils for the conditions with which this hall has anything to do with it. We from the position and the majority can express our confidence in our government. Stability is an important issue, and it is crucial for trust that matters are properly resolved. In particular, against support for political parties, the issue of instability becomes important and relevant. These issues are then also discussed in depth, both by the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs Department and by the Committee on Democracy’s Finance. There has been broad consensus around the rules in this room – broad agreement on the opportunity to support political parties. Everyone must be able to support political parties. It is even probably unconstitutional to prohibit it. Let me therefore quote what the Law Department says in its assessment of stability, by Sigrid Hjørnegård: ‘At the intersection of the Party’s rules on financial support to political parties and the rules of the Administration Act on the stability of each official, we believe that support from a particular donor to a particular party does not in itself lead to the involvement of government councils and State secretaries from that party in administrative matters relating to the donor. Similarly, to the extent applicable to party members in other management political positions, this must apply irrespective of whether they are aware of the aid and also as a starting point in cases where the aid is granted as a contribution in connection with a planned joint project. It becomes crucial whether the individual’s relationship with the aid is such that he/she must be considered incapacitated. Even if the aid falls outside the general rule that party aid is legal, it is necessary, in our opinion, to assess in concrete terms whether it has such a link with the relationship that it has an impact on his or her stability. The same must apply if there are other forms of irregularities linked to the aid.» In other words, there is a distinction between publicly owned companies and any other type of company – legal or illegal. The distinction that Foss drew in his post does not cover in the assessment underpinning the Law Department. Furthermore, the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act states that, in applying the provision, emphasis shall be placed on whether the decision in question may involve ‘a particular advantage, loss or disadvantage to himself or to someone to whom he has close personal ties’. It has been raised beyond any doubt that there are no such ties in connection with any of our state councils or some of our state secretaries. In principle, it would be thought that this was a definition on which there should be broad agreement in this room, but strangely, it does not appear that way in the setting, where the Progress Party, the Right and the Left establish – or on the way to conclude – that if Riis-Johansen had known, then the Council of State would be inhabited. The implications of this reasoning are very interesting for these parties, for these are all lots that receive large amounts of direct support from companies or individuals. So if these parties ever came into government, then only people who don't know who is sponsoring these parties, who are contributing to these parties, who will be able to deal with issues where they might be interested, according to the definition and the set of thoughts that you're basing on here. And all that time the contributions are public, the only possible conclusion will be that no members or any representatives of the same parties will be Havile in these kinds of cases. Then we're just going to hope that we don't ever see how they're going to try to solve such a problem in practice. And then there's one more thing that has to be said about stability, or instability: Inflation must never be a convenient way to avoid the responsibility that you have. There shall be a threshold to declare itself incapacitated, and in this case the threshold is not crossed. It follows responsibility with power. The law department acts in our system with a great degree of autonomy and partly authority. So it's right that it's not always right. But we don't have anyone else to ask, and that's the usual procedure. The good question for the opposition when you spend so long drawing the law department's authority, the law department's work, in doubt, is: Who is it to ask? Which body, which institution should the government and others ask to have impartial legal advice? We have not received an answer to that so far. It is therefore alarming that the opposition is now drawing in doubt the position of the Law Department, and it is relevant at least to think that the opposition's conclusion in this case has been drawn a long time ago, and that the facts of the case are really uninteresting. There are also some signs of political interaction. Then I want to say that we're all human beings. It's possible to make mistakes, most of us have. I guess in history only one person has avoided doing that. It must also be possible to admit this and move on. That's basically how we people learn. Closing this room -- removing this futility from the Norwegian political space -- I think it's a great responsibility to take. I'm going to end by saying that this hall has formed a framework for a number of dramatic events over the years. Spring 1893 is a strong example in this way. In May it became known that the commanding Admiral Koren had prepared the warships at Horten, for use in the event of riots in the capital. The size then called the Koren and eight of his officers in, for which Section 75h of the Constitution opens. Everyone had to meet here in the Chamber and was subjected to hard and close questions from the rapporteur-in-chief of the Left. It also ended that the Admiral Koren, shortly after submitting his removal request, but the questioning in this room had reaped strong criticism from the Right. There has been a complaint about premature inquisition. It was also claimed that the questioning has brought on the image of the Storting very great tort. The issue we are dealing with today is in every way a pale shadow of suspicion in 1893 about military interference in a tense political situation. Yes, the committee's proceedings have led to any suspicion of reprehensible employment by the Councils of State of Navarsete and Riis-Johansen being said to have disappeared as dew for the sun. Equally full, it makes sense to recall the 1893 right-hand claims of the Inquisition and Neglect of the Storting. For the Right Party in particular and the Advance Party have acted as if this matter were larger than it is, as if the matter were more serious than it is, yes, as if the matter were essentially a different matter. What's left is just an inquisition, a reluctance to read the answers of state councils with an open mind, a reluctance to hear what they've explained in an open hearing. And this actually affects Storting's reputation. It's thought-provoking, but it's not the big crowd's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2911	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2914	I did not agree much here. But there was one thing I agreed with, and it is that the question of stability is also relevant to government councils for Storting's work and not least for Storting's control work. So the representative said Away Moe something I found a little strange. He said that the Councils made early contact with the Law Department in order to obtain a ‘normal’ assessment of stability. I thought that when you were going to have a stability assessment ‘normally’, it happened in advance that you should have issues for treatment – not in retrospect. In other words, a subsequent sustainability assessment should not be the usual way of dealing with issues in a department. So I want to challenge Borten Moe if he believes the treatment that the Council of State Navarsete has accomplished in relation to the information she has had is an example of the excellent judgment of a council of states.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2926	The answer is obvious in itself. What is unusual in this case is that you have asked for a sustainability assessment in retrospect. What is quite normal and quite ordinary, and what I meant to say, was that it was the Ministry of Justice's law department that was the address of the request, and that's quite the usual procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2931	That was a good clarification, but there was no answer to the question. My question was whether the National Council of Navarsete's assessment in this matter is an example of the excellent judgement of a State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2936	The Navarsete State Council has itself regretted some of the assessments that have been made. Besides that, I have no reason to comment further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2941	I must say that I think that after a reasonably short period of time, the representative Borten Moe has a capacity to act as a bass player in relation to the Stortinge on a historical basis, which I am little impressed by. But I note in particular the statement that this will not know the Center Party. Yes, then it would be very strange to have debates, if the Stortinget were to draw the dividing line that it would only be necessary to check the responsibilities of state councils, and could not comment on the same behaviour of the same persons as party leaders. You have a lot of experience to do that. So to my point, the statement that it has nothing to do with this hall, that is, this case. In fact, this is contrary to the Stortinget's opinion, because the Stortinget has given the minority in the Control Committee the opportunity to raise cases. In other words, the minority’s right to have the matter clarified through the usual process that underlies it. Then you can disagree on what things are going to travel. I understand that the representative Moe says it is time to put a point in this matter. That's what he's been saying for weeks. But the minority's right is, in fact, a unanimous big thing that has settled, and that's what the representative Borten Moe contests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2949	To take the last first, the representative Foss answered his own question and on his own line. The first, I think, can be commented on, namely that we do not know the party and the party leaders as such. There, of course, the parties are known, but not as part of a control hearing, not as part of the control function of the Stortinge, where formal processes are initiated. But of course there should be room for dissent, for holmgang, for questions of ordinary political change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2956	I disagree with that as long as their party leadership function and the knowledge they have gained as party leaders directly affect, or may affect, their behaviour as state councillors, i.e. their position. When there is such a connection, or may be such, the Storting has the right and the obligation to illuminate it. Putting such a distinction and saying that the councillor Navarsete as party leader knew about the contribution, but as the councillor she did not know about it, would be a mere impossibility. That's why it's the minority's right to light this when you want it. This has been decided unanimously by the Stortinget earlier on the subject of Storting's Rules of Procedure, and among others. the establishment of the control committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2961	No one contests the minority's right to address these questions. No one contests the minority's right to write exactly what you want and what you want in the committee's comments. But the same thing, of course, is the right to disagree with the assessments and what is written by the minority. And that's exactly what's spinning out in this hall, the minority has its point of view, the majority has its point of view. I believe that what is the control function of the Storting is to control the government, to control the government's office, to check that things have gone separately after the book, as it is to do in our underlying agencies. The batch of centres is not such an underlying establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2966	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2969	This debate shows that the very matter we are talking about has a high degree of seriousness. It's actually unanimity around. I want to raise something the representative Kolberg said, as I think supports it. Then I am not talking about the control function, but about the material content of the matter. Because there we agree, the Central Party has committed a crime and has received illegal support. The representative actually said that, and I think I'm quoting fairly correctly: we can't take any more examples of this kind. These are strong words and show the seriousness of the matter. I don't have anything to add to it, but it's another side of this matter than our follow-up from Stortinget as such, even if it slips a little apart. I'll come back to that shortly. For the Christian People's Party, the central question, and I mean the central question for the Stortinget, has been how the information on money support has been handled by the Central Party Councils, and about this financial support to the Central Party has in some way influenced the Councils of State of Navarsete and Riis-Johansen's office. It is the essence of the matter from my point of view, and that is the control task – to call it that – in this context. With regard to the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen – it has nothing to do with the control function – the Council of State itself admitted in the hearing that he had virtually no position on this project that the Centre Party and various companies were running together. That's politically alarming, but that's a fact that I'm basing on. In this way, his assessment of stability rests on the fact, and I have nothing to add to the conclusion that the Law Department has also reached. Of course, it is funny that the Council of State has had no role in this project, which at least was made as a very important matter by the Secretary-General. But again -- it's not part of our control task. In the case of the Navarsete State Council, we find that the Council of State has complained that the relevant government councils were not informed of which companies had given financial support to the Central Party, which in turn could affect their proceedings. We think that's a regret that's right. For there was highly relevant information for other government councils, e.g. in connection with the appointment of the new Chairman of the Board of Avinor. Then you can ask yourself: Was there a need for control hearing – is the matter oversized, etc.? I'd say that's a timely question, and I think one can land on both sides. Equally full: I perceive that the Council of Ministers of Navarsete's complaint actually came in connection with our hearing and the same day in today's business, more or less. So it is clear that the control function itself has also given a dynamic in the matter. I'm not in doubt about that. To this question, is it the head of the Central Party who has received information on money support, and is it irrelevant to the Stortinget? I can't see that it's irrelevant to the Stortinget when the head of the Central Party is the State Council at the same time. You can't then take off the party leader's hat and say that the party leader knows about the money support, while the council doesn't. It is clear that here – and I also understand that the Council of State itself believes – the information given to her as party leader should be transferred to her colleagues of state because it could affect their position. In that setting, we believe there is reason to criticize the Council of State Navarsete. So a few words about the Law Department. I recorded that it was said in the debate here that the Law Department is a government agency. I do not disagree with that, but I would say that it is not any government agency. The law department has a different position than any other department, and for my part, and for the Christian People's Party, I would definitely say that we assume that the opinions that come from the Law Department are given on an independent basis and not as a sort of conclusion on the basis of some kind of instruction. Then, of course, these conclusions can be discussed, and they should. But that the law department has a central place and a very important place in e.g. I think we should hold on to the assessment of stability, although, of course, it is the state councils which must ultimately make their final assessment of whether they are Hatile or Ei. I would say that in this setting from the Christian People's Party we have tried to separate a bit of snow and bart. We have criticised what the State Council itself has taken responsibility for and pointed out that it should be done differently. We're just going to take note of that. As far as the matter is concerned, the political fact of it, as the representative Kolberg said, is a very serious matter, and it has no responsibility whatsoever for the majority or minority of the Stortinge. It is one and only the Centre Party that must bear responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e2992	When you're number seven during free speaking time, there's not so many new items you can bring in, but I think maybe I can contribute someone. First of all, I have to say that to those of us who fought for transparency relating to gifts to political parties, this matter shows how important it was. Because it was actually by the transparency you discovered that there had been a crime. Had not the openness taken place, one would not have had it, this crime had not actually been settled. So I'm going to talk a little bit about stability, because I think maybe that's where we in the left have the most to contribute to this debate, where I think it's been a little strange interpretation of the concept of stability. Firstly, the left sees no need to question the Law Department. I know that some parties here in Stortinget want the Stortinget to have its own law department. The left doesn't see any reason for that. Of course, we do not believe that the Law Department is infallible, as a matter we have dealt with before today shows, but I believe that the Law Department has found a role in breaking between parliament and government that works well as it does today. But claiming that the law department's assessment is the only thing to lean on in terms of stability, I fundamentally disagree with. Then I will refer you from the hearing itself. To a question from me, Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen answers: ‘I do not believe that one as a State Council has a responsibility to assess it.’ But he also says that it is only the law department's assessment that is at stake here. Once established by the Legal Service, this shall apply. Then we're at the nucleus. I want to elaborate on that with another example. When the Bondevik II government was set, Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum was to hire a new head of the PST. One of the applicants in the application list was Jørn Holme, his former State Secretary. Minister of Justice Dørum asked for an assessment from the Department of Law on whether he was disembarkated when his former State Secretary was on the candidate list. The law department concluded quite clearly, and, in my opinion, quite correctly legally, that the Minister of Justice was a failure. Politically in this Chamber we know that questions would have been asked by a Minister of Justice who had made such an appointment. We also know that a PST boss with such a job behind him had always had his position weakened because it had been connected to a party job. Therefore, Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum chose to resign in the matter, and it was Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen who made the appointment of the new PST Chief. What does this tell us? Well, there's something called a legal downfall, but it's also an assessment of whether you're a political downfall. We have a task that I think is very, very important, and that is to build trust in the decisions we have – that there is no political or other way to raise questions by the decisions we are making. It is our responsibility, every politician and every state councillor, to make sure that we have confidence in the decisions we are making. If there is something that is available that can reduce the confidence, which can undermine e.g. An appointment or a board appointment, it is our job as politicians to care for it by retiring to increase confidence. It's not about escaping from decisions, it's not about not taking responsibility, because the responsibility is still there. Jan Petersen is responsible for the appointment of the PST Chief. Jan Petersen is responsible for the entire case investigation. It is not that someone has escaped from political responsibility, but it is nevertheless very important to assess both political and legal instability. In Ola Borten Moes' speech, it seemed as if there was only legal hibernation that counts. I don't dispute the law department's assessments. I do not dispute what the Law Department has come up with in both of these cases, but I dispute whether it was political fraud. Because there's a big difference between what's legal instability and what's political instability, and our responsibility is to build trust in our decisions. I must also say that today I have been a little surprised by the government's driving back. Let's say that this had happened and no political parties, no one on the Stortinget, had done anything. The issue is in the news, the questions are asked by journalists, readers from Norwegian citizens come – and Stortinget does nothing. We are not asking a question to a colleague, because it is a fellow politician. We need to enforce legislation that has no consequences. You admit a crime, but the crime has no consequences. Would it have contributed to confidence in this Parliament? Did it contribute to our real feeling that we were able to ask questions, also to our colleagues? Or is it that when people have broken the law as citizens, they feel that they are being prosecuted to the smallest detail, but are you a politician and have broken the law, won't anyone even ask critical questions? I think the position should be very happy because today we have not ended up in distrust. But we've actually asked the questions on behalf of the citizens, we've raised the issue with questions that citizens have asked, and we've done it in transparency. In fact, I believe that this strengthens confidence in both Parliament and the political system. This case has not been a scoop for the Norwegian political system. It's been a descent both for the Center Party as a party and for us as a community. If we hadn't cared and asked these questions, I think we would have also undermined the role of this Parliament. Then we can always discuss whether we were asking sharp questions or whether we didn't take into account the people in the system, and I hope we did. That's what our job is for individuals to do, and we're going to do it in a proper way. What it's essentially about, is that when you have a elected position in different roles in society, it's expected that you should have an assessment skills with you, or, as I said in the hearing, that there are some clocks ringing. So this case fits well in Advent time, because there should have been a lot of clocks here. That's the basic reflex of the spinal cord, that here's probably something I should have said about – that's the one that was asked questions about here. I believe we have come some further steps with this matter. I believe that we have dealt with what Norwegian democracy has come up with, by actually raising it up and asking critical questions. I believe that is part of our job, even when it is unpleasant and is about some of our own. Then I mean we have to set a standard. I believe that we should perhaps go through the Stability Regulation in such a way that it is related to what people see as stability, which rules create confidence in the decisions we are making. And saying that you're a legal haze doesn't mean you're a political haze.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3029	When a party with open eyes violates the law, and state councils are central to the matter, it is obvious that there is reason to look into such a matter for the Stortinget. In particular, this relates to the relationship to stability. Of course, it is possible that you have not been formally involved in such a matter, but you have obviously balanced it on a knife egg. There are also some of the things that are involved in the submissions both from the case rapporteur, Per-Kristian Foss, and from Anders Anundsen, our committee leader. When you're in such important positions as the state councils are, you have to stay away from conditions that can smell like instability or even worse things. We hope in such a way that this matter has been a lesson. After this case, I have a special taste in my mouth, which is similar to what I read in today's VG on page 3 that the Senter party's new party flower, glaucoma, will taste. According to the newspaper, this plant must also be toxic in large quantities, and it certainly thrives best where it is dark, according to VG. I hope that the latter will not be the leader of the Centre Party's financial arrangements in the future. With regard to the newspaper VG and other parts of the press, it's sometimes that we politicians get a lot of crap, I think. But I think it is right and reasonable that the press has put the search light on. I notice that no one in the press has thought that it has not been relevant for the opposition to raise the matter. It has only emerged in this debate, from the government parties, that we are critical of the fact that we have raised the matter. It is a veritable defence war that has been waged today by the government parties here in the Chamber. It's obvious that we've trotted on some sore toes. Most importantly, perhaps the representative Martin Kolberg has been under the heading of ‘attack is the best defense’. There are very few of the views of the representative Kolberg's posts I agree with, apart from one of his conclusions, that we can no longer tolerate such matters in Norwegian policy. That's what I hope the government lays down on its heart. Finally, the representative, Anundsen, the committee leader, was concerned that the government parties found reason to express confidence in the state councils in the vote and this debate. Now I'm interested in football and I follow sports broadcasts on our TV channels a lot. When a board in a football club goes out and expresses strong trust in a coach after it has gone a little bad, it is not long before you get fired. But there's probably a difference between football and politics in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3058	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3067	In order to ensure that the intentions of the pension reform are implemented, private sector pension schemes need to be adapted to the flexible withdrawal of old-age pensions in the social security system, which will enter into force on 1 January 2011. The Ministry has promptly followed up the Commission’s proposals for adaptations to meet this challenge. These are the adjustments we are about to adopt today. It is important in view of the future value creation in this country that we have a more flexible pension system in place. It's in line with the line of work when we're making arrangements to combine retirement with work. When we see demographic developments in Norway, it is highly desirable that more people go further into work and contribute to value creation for as long as possible. Senior citizens have a great deal of knowledge and competence, which we need in the future. The Banking Law Commission will continue to work on proposals for further adaptations of the private pension system to new public pensions. In this context, inter alia: limit amounts, design of new performance products and enhanced access to pooling of free policies are assessed. The Committee agrees that this work is being met, as is the follow-up by the Ministry to the proposals of the Banking Commission. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposals for amendments to the Act on Occupational Pensions, the Pensions Act and the Act on Individual Pensions. However, there are various minority proposals that others will present. I will not comment on the individual elements of the law and the proposals for change, but I have a comment on the information obligations of pension schemes. The choice of the time of withdrawal of an old age pension and the combination of the withdrawal of an old age pension with further work will be a decision with significant economic consequences for the individual. Good and easily understandable information on the economic impact is therefore important. This will be important in the future both for government agencies and pension schemes – like the schemes within the corporate and deposit pension schemes we are dealing with today. The majority of the Committee proposes an amendment to the fourth paragraph of Section 5-7b that a member receiving an invalidity pension under Section 6-1 may not at the same time withdraw an old-age pension to the extent that the total invalidity pension and old-age pension exceed a pension rate of 100 pst. If the employee falls short of the retirement pension, the old-age pension is reduced so that the pension rate does not exceed 100 pst. The majority of the Committee also adheres to the clarifications in Section 18 of the Central Bank Act as well as the proposals for amendments to the Finance Act §2-18 and §2-19, where, in the light of decisions taken by the European Parliament and the Council and now available directives, we make changes to the law governing the remuneration arrangements of financial undertakings. The changes in the laws make it possible to capture a broadest possible group of employees within the new regulation. The changes we made in our Finance Act last summer are intended not to govern the financial sector. This was one of the reasons for the financial crisis we experienced in 2008-2009 — a crisis that has had a major impact on many countries that are now heavily indebted after using the Community’s funds to save their banks through the crisis. When we see the impact this has on ordinary people and what social unrest it creates, I am pleased that we are now establishing common rules of law with the European Union on how to regulate compensation schemes in the financial sector. It is a major step forward in the right direction to prevent new financial crises from emerging. With this, I am presenting the amendments to the Entrepreneurship Act, the Depositary Pensions Act and the Individual Pensions Act, as well as clarifications in Section 18 of the Central Bank Act and amendments to the Financial Activities Act, Sections 2-18 and 2-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3086	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough and good work on this matter. So I'll draw attention to page 20 in the setting. There it has spewed out a word that is not irrelevant. It says: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left refer to the consultation note of the FNO of 23 November where the FNO states that it will be possible for the pension provider: [[...]] Of course, the word 'not' should be in here. Wages and allowances should be determined by the owners of the undertakings concerned in the opinion of the Party of Advancement. There is nothing that the State should interfere with. The remuneration, if it is to be performance-based, should be based on actual results, with corrections such as general economic upswings or other random conditions. The Progress Party sees that some pay and remuneration agreements have been poorly designed, but nevertheless believes that this is a relationship between the contractual partners. The Progress Party has no objection to making recommendations on remuneration that you can choose to follow, possibly justifying why you do not follow them. But basing this on coercion means we want to inhibit the dynamics of the market. We are very critical of the provisions of the present Parliament and Council Directive amending directives. That is why, in a proposal from the government, we are asking the EU to negotiate the existing Parliament and Council Directive and the provisions on compensation with a view to preventing, as far as possible, restrictions on the freedom of contract and intervention in market mechanisms when the directive is to be implemented in Norway. If this were not to happen, we hope that legislation will be introduced which will then be limited and as economical as possible within the framework of the directives. Otherwise, I will address the proposals to which we are co-sponsors, and those on which we are alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3106	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3109	Yes, there is a great deal of consensus here, so the rapporteur must have done a good job. From the Right, we see this as a mere adjustment to the pension reform to be implemented from New Year's onwards, and since it also provides greater flexibility, we do not see any reason to make a dramatic out of what we are adopting today. For the previous speaker: this with pay and bonuses, etc. was a battle that stood last year, and we have not taken a rematch around it, even though we were not fully in line with the government when it was adopted. But what can be a small germ for tension between the position and the opposition in this case is the extent to which one should be given equal treatment between self-employed and others in terms of deposit pension schemes and that kind of thing. There we note that the Banking Act Commission has made this in two parts and will come back to it with equal treatment. We accept that. But at the same time, we would like to point out that when you go into that job, we hope, first of all, that it will come quite quickly – it is important to get it clarified – and that you might also go into it with your eyes to create simplification, and, of course, non-discrimination should be the focus. That is something the Banking Law Commission has said about. Pensions are difficult, especially for many self-employed and small enterprises. So if you could simplify it at the same time, it would be a big step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3122	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. I will only comment on one of the issues in the suspension, the only case in which the government has not followed up the recommendations of the Banking Law Commission – which Gundersen also mentioned – namely equality of the contribution limits of the self-employed person with regard to the pension. During the last few weeks, the left has raised the social systems of self-employed workers with different state councils. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry have replied that, after all, we are assessing, and we are looking at this. But the Deputy Minister of Labour, Aasrud, was commendably clear when she said clearly in a very brief answer to questions from the undersigned Tuesday this week: ‘In the budget presented here, we have chosen to set priorities other than to give priority to increased rights for those who are self-employed.’ However, in the proposition we are now considering, the Ministry writes that they will not propose changes to the deposit limits now, implicitly that this may only come about some time when it has been assessed. At the risk of repeating myself, and I do so for sure: the left wants more people to become self-employed, and we want to make it easier to do so. We're totally dependent on more people taking the risk of creating jobs for themselves and maybe someone else. These courageous people should be helped forward and not viewed as suspicious and questionable. I believe the Council of State Aasrud's short and concise response to me on Tuesday is reasonably clarifying both for the self-employed and for the opposition. I will therefore challenge the Minister of Finance, who has the next post, to be as clear as Aasrud. Is it completely unrealistic to expect improvements for the self-employed because it naturally has a cost side? And isn't that the government's priority when it comes to the problem? It's much more honest to say what it is, so I expect and hope that the Minister of Finance will come up with that in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3140	I am also pleased that the Committee on Finance has quickly followed up the proposals put forward by the government to adapt the private occupational pension schemes to the new rules on the flexible or flexible withdrawal of old-age pensions in the social security system, and that the majority of the Committee – plus the Committee as such – joins the proposals contained in the proposal. It means – and it is important – that the rules on the emoluments of pensions in the private occupational pension schemes can come into force from the turn of the year and at the same time as those in the other pension schemes. I just want to stress that what we are discussing here is that the government's proposal is a right for individuals to withdraw an old-age pension from a private pension of 62 years of age, a right to withdraw an old-age pension from a private pension scheme without simultaneously taking out the old-age pension from the social security system, and a right to choose the proportion of the pension capital to be taken out. In addition, the proposal also provides for the possibility and right to combine retirement pensions with employment and further provision of services. This means that there will be a great freedom of choice for the individual to adapt to the pension on the one hand and the working life on the other. I have good faith that this will also increase the job offer in the future, which is important for several reasons. Then I just want to comment on the proposal on the deposit limits for the self-employed. There are no changes now, and as the representative of Gundersen was also involved, there is a purely adjustment to the pension reform. We will come back to that question and go through it in a good way when the Banking Law Commission has gone through it. Without promising too much, we can say that it's not unrealistic to expect that maybe you can come up with a sensible and good order in that way. I would also like to stress that the Banking Law Commission is doing a very good job. It has now provided a wide range of settings in a very complicated area, and I really think that the job that has been done here also deserves tribute from this speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3169	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1602]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3187	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1602]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3205	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1602]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3222	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3231	This is a matter that should not take so long. The Committee agrees with all of them, most of them. There are only shades in the Committee's comments relating to a few problem areas. This applies primarily to whether you are very satisfied with the government's work related to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, or whether you think we still have a little to go after. In addition to that, most things are agreed upon. The case concerns the implementation of the agreements in 2008 and 2009. In fact, I will give tribute to the government for the work that has been done, especially linked to illegal fishing. I also know that in one area we have a common front, and it is linked to the draft practices that the EU is carrying out, i.e. draft directives. Both the government and the Committee have given signals to the EU Fisheries Committee in preparing the Green Paper and examining it in the EU system. We'll see how far you get. I believe that the EU is also moving in the right direction, because you have to go in the right direction, if not a threat to fish stocks. I'm actually not going to spend any longer time than this. We have a common front. We have a common goal. We might have a little bit of a different way of getting to this goal. As an opposition party, we might be a little bit more -- let's say, worried. At least we want to go a little bit faster. It's just like that. In addition to that, I would like to say that the big message available here is a good document and provides a good overview. So we're going to have to follow this up in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3244	I intend to spend a little longer time, because this message is important and gives a good description of the work the Norwegian authorities and underlying agencies are doing to ensure Norwegian fishing interests internationally and the sustainable harvesting of our resources. Norway has a number of fisheries agreements with other countries. These agreements are very important. The message we are discussing today refers to the 2010 quota agreements, Norwegian participation in multilateral fisheries cooperation and regional management organisations. Furthermore, this Communication provides insights into the population calculation, advice, state reports and long-term management plans of the main populations that Norway has with other countries. The fact that Norway is a member of a number of international organisations and committees helps to influence the best possible way of taxing individual fish stocks. And once again, I would like to stress that Norway is good at fisheries management. In the last 20 years, there has been close cooperation with the EU on resource management. However, the Common Fisheries Policy of the EU is not part of the EEA Agreement, i.e. EU resource management, structural policy and market regulation are outside the scope of the EEA Agreement. The main content of the bilateral fisheries agreement is that Norway and the EU should allow fishing vessels from the other party to fish within their jurisdiction. This fishing is regulated in annual quota agreements between the parties. Furthermore, the parties are obliged to cooperate in the management and protection of living marine resources. In particular, the revision of the EU’s fisheries policy is very important. Norway plays an important role, but it is a challenge. I would like to highlight the EU's import ban on cell phone products, the mackerel negotiations and drafts as challenging. Foreign Minister Gahr Støre said in his European political statement in May: ‘The company is about our right and our ability to operate sustainable management of living marine resources and to market products from fishing and fishing. None of the cell populations we catch are threatened. If we accept the ban, we accept that there is a precedent for a trade ban on such a basis in our main market." I actually think that was very well said. That's what most of it says, in my opinion. It is an objective to strengthen the dialogue with Russia on how best to cooperate on the reduction of overfishing in the Barents Sea. This has been and is a priority area. Norway has annual quota negotiations with Russia on total quotas for the Common Stocks in the Barents Sea. In addition, it is agreed to manage the royal crab separately in their respective economic zones. Finally, I would like to stress once again the importance of our participation in the various negotiations and the international resource management forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3275	Let me first express great joy over a committee that agrees, even though the shades that were drawn out exist. It's an important signal out to our own fishermen. I am thinking of the consensus on the challenges both with illegal fishing and with drafts. And it's not least an important signal now in these negotiating days, when we now sit and negotiate both bilateral agreements and the mackerel agreement. So I'm very happy about that. I would also like to stress that sustainable resource management is the central objective of the government in the fisheries negotiations we conduct with other countries each year. As Mr Nesvik pointed out, the fight against illegal fishing has also been at the heart of negotiations with Russia in the past, and we have also worked on this issue on other fronts. That is why I am pleased that 2009 was the year when illegal fishing was not registered in the Barents Sea. Nevertheless, we will continue to give priority to this work, both in our own area and in cooperation with other countries. In particular, in our joint management with the EU, the issue of drafts has been central in the last two years and a number of measures have been put in place to reduce the draft. An evaluation of the system for the closure and opening of fishing grounds in the North Sea showed that the system should be improved. Unfortunately, we did not agree with the EU in the last negotiations on a common system, and the consequence of this is that we are moving forward on our own. In any case, we will ensure that fisheries are managed sustainably in Norwegian waters. Finally, let me say a few words about drafts in the Norwegian zone and of Norwegian vessels. We have also had a little debate on this in the Stortinge in connection with the Questionnaire. Based on the headlines that have been in the media, I invited the Coast Guard, the Fisheries Directorate, the Marine Research Institute and the Norwegian Fisheries Team to a meeting, where we agreed to continue to focus a lot on this challenge also in Norway. It is such that any breach of the draft legislation is too much. That's why we've put on a plan for high focus. It's about mind-building work among the practitioners. It is not least about schooling in legislation and regulatory understanding, which we want to include as part of what fishermen will have to learn, for example. the safety training. We might add it as a part there. Furthermore, it is also a question of avoiding getting fish on board which you would rather not have, whether it is small fish or whether it is fish of a species on which you do not have a quota. technical regulations and regulations. Last but not least, it is about having a deterrent code for dealing with – we can call it – violations of the rules. Therefore, I have given instructions to the Directorate of Fisheries that when they have safe documentation and ensure that there has been a crime, they must assess the withdrawal either for a shorter or longer period of time or on a permanent basis. There's still a big focus on a very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1602]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3310	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes for each party and up to 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3319	The proposal to amend the quota year is a subject that has been put on the fisheries policy agenda several times. The question was addressed early in the 1990s in connection with St.meld. No 58 for 1991-1992, on structural and regulatory policies in relation to fishing fleets. These were the same issues at the time: ‘The conversion of the regulatory year in Norway will lead to the conclusion of a series of international agreements. This suggests that the case needs to be addressed with the countries with which Norway has agreements. The Ministry of Fisheries will carry out a more detailed analysis of the issue of any change in the regulatory year.» In another staging message, St.meld. No 51 for 1997-1998, it is clear that the starting point for the quota year does not have any practical significance as long as the quotas are high enough to allow fishing throughout the year. It was also concluded at the time that it was little time to move the regulation year. Iceland has relocated the quota year, which has been positive. The conversion of the allowance year has had a significant impact on the smoothing of raw material access. I understand that we cannot transfer Iceland's experience directly to Norwegian conditions, but it is interesting to read the story. Norway can learn from these experiences. Conversion of the quota year may be positive for the possibility for fishermen to plan and reduce the uncertainty associated with the planning of the operation in the second half of the year. The ones that, for example, has planned an active harvest fisheries, but due to bad weather has not fished up the planned quantity, the remaining quantity may be fished during winter and summer. It is therefore possible to continuously adjust operations in relation to the prevailing weather conditions and the price and market situation in the autumn. The Christian People's Party, in its proposal, asks the Government to consider both the adjustment of the quota year and the increase in quota allocation for by-catch as an instrument to balance the landings of cod over the year and return to the Storting appropriately. This proposal is very similar to both the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right, but we are separating layers, for example. where the Progress Party is asking for proposals from the government already in the spring of 2011. The Christian People's Party believes that unfortunately, with the processes that are going to take a little longer. In this respect, we agree with both the Right and the Advance Party. When I have addressed this issue in my home country, I have received a different signal. A fisherman told me that changes to the quota year can undoubtedly have a lot to do, but this is not the biggest problem in Norwegian fisheries policy right now. So I'm promoting the proposal of the Christian People's Party, and then we'll see what happens. The Council of State has provided an opening for further work on these issues. It has been said by fisheries ministers of various political colours since the early 1990s. I understand the challenges. We can't just decide this. In fact, it must be negotiated here, both in the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and in the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. I understand that this is demanding, and I wish the Council of State luck with that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3341	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3344	It is recorded that there is a desire from some teams to change the quota year. This is based on the desire to balance fisheries over the year. In the whitefish sector in particular, a seasonal adjustment with a change in the quota year has been desirable to allow the start of the harvest. Here I would like to refer to the letter from the Minister of Fisheries and Coast in the matter, that changing the quota year will be a long and demanding process, and that the changes, among other things, will take place. will require agreement with other countries with which Norway has joint stock management agreements. And as the Council of State refers to in its letter, there will be neither more fish nor increased quotas if you change the quota year. However, government parties are all concerned with the regulation of fisheries which is not only rational but which, as far as possible, facilitates efficiency and flexibility, while ensuring access to raw material for industry. Government parties are therefore satisfied that the Council of State in the same letter says that she will continue to work on these issues and will invite the industry to make representations to ensure that the measures taken are both accurate and rational. In the meantime, we agree with the assessments that the by-catch system will be a good measure to increase the catches of cod, hay and hay in the harvest, and that this will hopefully contribute to a smoother delivery over the year and increase activity in the harvest. That's basically what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3359	First of all, so that I don't forget it, I will promote the proposals of the Progress Party, so that I can safely go down from the pulpit afterwards, without having to jump back. The issue we are dealing with today, which is a proposal by several representatives from the Right, is very important. It's an important proposal because it illustrates one of the elements that we should consider in terms of how we can get up the value associated with the first-hand turnover of fish. In short, we have repeatedly discussed in this Chamber how we can achieve an even greater increase in the value of our products in Norway, rather than the greater part of the increase in the value of our raw material is due to foreign fillet factories and so on. In this respect, this proposal is very important, because it can give us a tool precisely to be able to plan differently, based on the way the market views the situation. In that case, fishermen must also be able to distribute their catches differently from those within the quota year as at present. But then, of course, the second problem comes up, and it's not sure that it's ideal for all kinds of fish. For the cod fish as for the white fish it is probably very possible that this can be a very important grip, but I am a little bit more uncertain when it comes to, among other things. pelagic sector, where there is a different fishing time from that in this sector. If you move the quota year to start on 1 September, that's exactly when you start the pelagic fish, for example. That's why it's important that you have swirls when you're dealing with fish. In the case of by-catch, it is a very important thing that you have to look at. The representative, Lillian Hansen, says in his speech that it will take time to implement this, and that you are dependent on agreements with other countries. Yes, of course you are! But that's why it's the bigger reason to signal that now we're going to start doing it. Then we have to make sure that we put pressure in the negotiations related to it. I'm very excited to hear the Minister for Fisheries' posts in a little while. I ask that she then definitely give the signal that they have recorded this in the negotiations that we have just left behind. If we play this part in the negotiations on the coastal agreements linked to the different fisheries laws, there might be a way to go further. That's the big question. We have to stop just talking, we have to start acting. That's how I see the representative proposal from the Right, that now we have to move a step further. It's right, as Andersen Eide said in his statement, that there is no big difference between the proposals. But there's a significant difference. In its proposal, the Progress Party clearly states that it should bring the operators in the fisheries sector before an agreement is put in place, so that everyone can participate and make their views known in the sample in which they are discussed. With regard to the time factor – that is, the spring of 2011 – the government’s very proposal on how to move forward. It is not a matter of the contract agency being in place in 2011, but we have to start somewhere. If we don't give a signal that we want this to be dealt with quickly, and that you have to get it started, it's still winter and spring, as the representative Andersen Eide was also involved in his post. So I hope the government can turn around. There's probably little probability of that, but at least we'll try and vote on the proposal afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3378	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3381	Good opportunities for planning operations and long-term conditions are something you would like to pursue, regardless of the industry in which you are engaged. The situation of the whitefish industry is well known here in this room. It has been quite turbulent and sometimes difficult in recent years. Although a lot is going well at home, we manage well, and the quota is increasing, it's actually so that we have difficulty seeing that we get the big profitability increase in this part of the fishing industry. The government, through its fresh fish strategy, has described market management and access to fresh raw material as a way out of what is now at stake. Major actors such as Aker Seafoods have also adopted strategies that describe this as a proper path. In recent years, different models have been tried to meet the Ministry’s strategy. We have tried the district quota system, redistribution and by-catch, and the quota bank and the change in the quota year have been mentioned. The system of district quotas, redistribution and by-catch all have in common that it requires a large red tape and otherwise makes it difficult for fishermen and industry to plan for long-term market operations. I have previously claimed and will maintain the statement that the district quota system employed more bureaucrats than it has employed industrial workers – which we all agree was not the intention of the experiment. Early in November, one could read about a jubilant leader in Båtsfjord Arbeiderparti called Geir Knutsen in the A press newspaper and in the FiskeriblagetFiskeren. The Knutsen's explanation of his good mood and adventurous song of law was that the Minister of Fisheries had now personally informed him that the amount of cod involved in by-catch fishing had increased to 49 p.m.. This is a Christmas present for fleets, industry and coastal communities in Finnmark, said the happy leader of the Båtsfjord Workers' Party. And the Knutsen is unfortunately quite right. The regulation of cod fishing has now become so rigid that fleets, industry and local communities along the coast depend on the state councils acting both as Easter hares and Christmas events in order to maintain their operations. We can't be aware of this, in the opinion of the Right. It cannot be that you should sit on board the boat and wait for a new change of regulations, and then you can go to sea. You have to come to some sort of system where you can plan these things yourself. The change in the allowance year is an old case that has been discussed and investigated a number of times and a number of places. We are now lifting this case up to wholesale treatment for several reasons. I would like to refer to the Council's letter of reply and comment on some points. It is not, as the Council of State assumes, that this will only apply to white fish such as cod, hay and saithe. In fact, the problem is also discussed in the pelagic sector. I am aware that the fishing head is different in that year. But in the pelagic sector, we are discussing changing the start of the quota year. Nevertheless, it is enough that the main problem now exists in the whitefish industry, and the Council of State itself sums it up in an excellent way in its inception. I quote: ‘In the current situation, fishermen may not take a chance of delaying the catch until the harvest, as conditions may arise in which they are unable to fish the quota.’ The most pervasive circumstances that can arise have created bureaucracy with its regulations. It is not that there are unforeseen factors that provide for this. The start of the quota year coincides with the start of the winter season, the requirement to complete the basic quota before over-regulation, and last but not least this year the start of by-catch fishing in mid-June, means that fishermen have no choice. You have to take the quota as soon as possible, unless you miss big incomes. There is a regulation in contravention of the government's declared strategy to deliver fresh fish to a well paying market year round. Right-wing would like to have a fisheries and industrial policy that operates at least in a way that is cost-effective and complex. At the same time, we should not go along with the requirement that sustainable management is a prerequisite for economic sustainability. The proposal to start the quota year on 1 September has been discussed with a large number of operators in the fishing industry, and there is little resistance. We are aware that Russia and Norway are cooperating well on fisheries management, and we understand that it is important to understand such a solution, including in other countries. It is part of this picture that Iceland has its quota start on 1 September. That's why it's not a very caloric exercise to ram up counter-conceptions, but that's not what I think the fishing industry needs. The industry needs solutions-oriented policies that create good conditions for business throughout the country. It is not for politicians to decide that an industry should be market-oriented; it must develop the industry itself. But politicians can make decisions that facilitate the care of a market and bring out larger values. In the Right's view, there is such a proposal that we have made. That is why I would like to address the proposal and, in addition, I would like to say that if the Right's proposal, against assumption, were to be voted down, we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3410	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3413	It is the proximity of productive fishing grounds and the migration pattern of the large fish stocks that have made Norway the world's second largest exporter of seafood. One of our greatest advantage is that both cod, haze, herring and solder during periods of the year enter the coast and provide the basis for rich fisheries. However, fish stocks are not always adapted to requirements from crease markets in Europe, which will have deliveries of fresh Norwegian seafood throughout the year. Basically, it's impossible to regulate us away from nature's own seasons and fish's migration patterns. Once upon a time, both cod and haze enter the coast in large concentrations in winter, and several other fisheries have a clear seasonal profile, including, for example, fishing for mackerel. The smallest part of the fleet – i.e. the sharks – is the least mobile and the most occupied, so the operating patterns of the jacks are adapted to seasonal fisheries when the fish are available near the coast. As a result, it would be both unrealistic and irresponsible to expect the chess fleet to play an important role in ensuring the balancing of landings over the year, regardless of the start of the quota year. These vessels must be allowed to fish when the fish is actually available and not risk life and equipment in bad weather at sea. The fishing industry, and especially the fillet producers, has faced the same challenge in terms of regular deliveries ever since it was established. In order to meet that challenge, beam concessions were distributed, as trawls have completely different conditions for fishing all year round. It is still the case that fishing industry operators are the largest trawlers in Norway, through their ownership of trawls, and they actually have the opportunity to do something. While there are good arguments both on the one hand and on the other, a change in the quota year will not lead to more fish, nor will it lead to more quotas. However, it is possible that it can contribute to the increased supply of raw material to industry in the autumn, at least in some fisheries. At the same time, we must bear in mind that a change in the quota year will also have geographical consequences in the cod sector, and will obviously benefit Finnmark. As I have pointed out earlier, there are certain challenges in changing the quota year, but that is not impossible. It's a part that needs to be in place for it to become a reality. And just to answer the question from the representative Nesvik: This has not been a topic in the negotiations with the other nations since I became the Council of State. But that doesn't mean it can't be in the future. All the good suggestions I am willing to discuss. But at least in parallel with this issue, we need to find and continue schemes that do the same for good. The by-catch system has been mentioned and has been shown to fulfil – at least to some extent – the same intentions as those contained in the proposal for a changed quota year. That is why I will continue that arrangement to the next year. The aim of the scheme is to ensure a harvest fishery for cod, haze and other species, thus contributing to smoother deliveries over the year and an overall increase in coastal activity. At the same time, I attach great importance to avoiding regulations that stimulate capping and strengthen the seasonal peaks. The balancing of landings over the year, the availability of good quality raw material and the interaction between the fishing fleet and shore-based producers are crucial to the realization of the government’s vision of Norway as the world’s leading maritime fleet. That is why this debate is important, and I give high priority to the work on these issues. And as I said, all the good suggestions that contribute to raising the value of Norwegian seafood, I of course take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3448	My question is simply whether or not you really intend to do something about the challenge that is being raised here in relation to the quota year. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State call the parties to the fishing industry? The party has made a proposal, which has been included in the vote, asking the government to sit down with the parties – both on the fishing and the buyer’s side, on the industry side and on the sales side, i.e. fish sales teams, etc. – to just come up with schemes here, schemes that can be a way to go. I am also convinced that it will take time before it is possible to finally put in place a system in which the other countries are also involved. But, as I said, Iceland has already introduced 1 September as the start of the year. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State at least try to get a meeting called for talks with the actors to see if this could be the way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3457	I talk very often and very much to the actors on the coast, both the fishermen and the country side. Both are important actors in order to achieve good regulation of fisheries, but not least in order to increase the value of Norwegian seafood. In fact, I spoke to the Norwegian Fiskerlag at the latest today, we are discussing, among other things. the by-catch system to be able to make good progress, and we are discussing over-regulations, as an important parameter to avoid a capping. There are many elements that are important in this debate. I am now sitting in the middle of it, attached to next year's regulations. Of course, I will also discuss the quota year with the parties, and I am familiar with the debate that has taken place in the industry. But I think the answer that the representative Eide has received is a bit symptomatic for some – that at least this is not the main thing in the fish’s pancreas right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3464	Much of this proposal is about leaving actors in the industry to plan their own year to a greater extent – this is because many people with me have an idea that they should be able to increase the value of this production. After all, it was claimed by industry that in the autumn it is a well - paying fresh - fish market. It's part of the background of the fresh fish strategy for the government. On a previous question from me about quota arrangements, the minister said that it would only be a zero-sum game anyway. Is it possible for the Council of State to clarify why it is considered that it would be a zero-sum game for the actors to plan their own operating year to a greater extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3471	In order to take the concept of zero-sum games, it is true that there will be neither more fish nor more quota by starting the quota year at any time than at the turn of the year. There will also be no more days in a year, so the fishermen will not have more days to fish. So for opportunities to plan their own year. That's something I have a great sense of, and we're really discussing in depth now in connection with next year's regulations how to give fishermen more opportunity to plan their own year. This shows, for example: that over-regulation means a great deal, because it is clear that its higher over-regulations one impose, the greater is the risk of over-fishing. It's about the larger proportion of fixed allowances, the easier it is to plan. So the beginning and the end of a quota year I don't think will be what improves anything. The improvement is that you get a good fish in the autumn, which will also provide a good by-catch system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3478	The next line is from Frank Bakke-Jensen. For a moment – on my screen, it says Bakke-Jensen, but I understand that Nesvik has drawn a line first. Then it's Nesvik who gets that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3483	Thank you for that. We might even have to ask the same question, but it'll now show up. Governments are talking about a zero-sum game. She's talking about the number of fish, the ratio, the MTB, and how much you can take out, won't change. That's absolutely right. You don't get any more days either. But you can achieve another thing, you can plan the business more according to what the market is willing to pay. So the profitability in the industry will be able to go up, so the price both first and second hand, because you can plan more according to the market. The price will go up because you're releasing some of what you're talking about today in the industry as so-called Olympic fishing to get ready as soon as possible, and to get on the next fishing trip. We have seen it a little bit on the mackerel side also in the autumn, linked to the fact that one fished very very very early because one knew that the herring came later. My question to the Council of State is this: does the Council of State not see the importance of better planning in line with the market, so that the value of the catch does not necessarily give rise to the quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3492	Well, I see absolute value related to the fact that profitability will rise, and that the planning horizon can be slightly different. My point is that a good by-catch system that makes will take care of the same thing. In that case, if a quota of cod for by-catches of by-catches of by-catch is set, the fisherman will have an additional effect by having them hoisted up and said, which too much remains unfished in the sea. I don't think Norway should be familiar with that. We should take up the resources on which we actually have good and large quotas to give industry a raw material. And the well-paid fresh market that is being talked about here is also often about the harvest. That's why I've also said that whoever gets involved in the by-catch is the one who delivers fresh fish just to meet that need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1602]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3515	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3524	The proposal for a representative on the ownership and power of the fishing industry covers several different themes of fisheries policy. The proposal includes the law on participants, rules on generation change and ownership of the coastal fleet. These are themes that clearly show policy lines in this area between the government parties and the opposition. In my article I want to explain the government parties' position in this matter, and I expect the opposition to explain its views. Let me start by saying that I am pleased that we are still having debates on important fisheries policy issues in this Chamber. It is important, not least for Norway as a fishing nation, and as a forward-looking and leading player in the global seafood market. The fishing industry is important for employment and value creation along the coast, and Norwegian maritime food exports in 2009 amounted to a total of 44.7 billion. kr. Norway has special opportunities linked to our position in the north and on the coast. Government parties are concerned that the value creation of our Common Fisheries Resources should benefit the fisheries-dependent coastal communities as far as possible. We are committed to having a varied fleet and fair allocation of fisheries resources, which help to ensure employment and settlement in coastal communities, and which can ensure a stable supply of raw materials to industry throughout the year. Government Parties have a clear political desire to maintain a marine fishing environment in North Norway in addition to the industrial cod trawls, through Nordic ownership, to contribute to raw material supply to processing plants in the national compartment and activity for different groups of suppliers and to contribute to local recruitment. We therefore stress the importance of ensuring that county bonds are respected in order to maintain the geographical distribution of both the conventional coastal and sea fishing fleet and the relative distribution of such vessels between the counties, in order to ensure that the objectives and intentions of today's legislation are respected. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not so concerned about keeping county bonds, and I would like to stress that such a policy will affect the fisheries-dependent coastal communities in the north. In the case of the Act of Participation, government parties are committed to maintaining both this Act and the Raw Fish Act. In this context, I would like to point out that the FKD has decided to set up a working group to look at the following areas: the experience gained from the trial system with the mediation body in case of disagreement on the setting of the minimum price for the placing on the market of fish in the first hand and the evaluation carried out by the testing scheme, propose measures, if appropriate, as well as updating the Raw Fish Act in relation to the development of the sales strike system following the adoption of the Act in 1951. The mandate of the working party is limited by the fact that the main features of the sales strike system and the turnover monopoly are fixed, including the continued fixing of a minimum price for fish in the first hand, and it is underlined that this is a review of technical aspects of the raw fish law. With regard to the Participant Act, the general rule that only active fishermen may be granted a fishing vessel acquisition authorisation has been given the basis that Norwegian fishing fleet today consists essentially of independent fishermen who own their own vessels and who control their own activities, as other self-employed operators. This rule serves the purpose of the Participant Act, to facilitate the continued exploitation of marine resources by the coastal population. There is therefore no doubt that the provisions of the Act of Participation here have contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the Act, and we cannot see arguments to change this. A single committee underlines that the Act of Participation § 7 is also to be implemented in practice in line with the objectives and intentions of these exemption rules and the adaptations made in other legislation for the same purpose. In view of this, the red-green parties consider that there is no basis for a claim that the legislation imposes unnecessary bureaucracy in relation to generational shifts and that the proposal should be rejected on this basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3552	First of all, I address the proposals that the Progress Party either stands alone or is with others about. Then it's done. Sometimes, of course, you want the world to stand still. Sometimes it's probably the way you want no change to happen, and you can sit safely in your place and just think everything's going to work. Regrettably, in business and elsewhere the situation is changing at regular intervals, including in the fisheries sector. I'll give you a simple example. In these days, we have a break-up, or division, of a company in Norway, the Møgster shipping company, linked to, among other things. the separation of boats. We have seen this in the FiskribladetFiskaren, among others. the prices set on allowances, etc. Here the problem comes into the picture very quickly in connection with a generation change in a company. If one party has had a holding of less than 50 pst. and has not been an active fisherman, he must apply for a derogation in order to take over. That derogation is granted over a certain number of years, which is probably five years. What's up? It actually shows that the legislation is not adapted to the reality we are in. I'll do another example. Why is it absolutely important that if you run a shipping company that consists of both a fishing boat and seven supply boats, you say the following through the law of participants: You are not allowed to own this fishing boat if you are not an active fisherman. Well, then my question is, what competence are we going to demand from those who are going to run shipping in the future? There has been a lot of such combined shipping companies that operate both with fishing and with supply and offshore activities. This clearly shows that perhaps time has gone a little from the most rigid legislation in the law of participants. I sat down in my office before today and read the law of the participant once more, just to see if there are any things that there is absolutely reason to consider. Yes, of course it is! For this reason, the Council of State should start work to see if there are rules and regulations relating to this law that can be usefully tried to change — not try to change, but the Council of State and the Government can change — so that they become more adapted to the reality that is out there today. With regard to this matter, which I also heard now from the representative, Lange Nordahl, we are once again trying to gloat under the North-South conflict and the importance of holding the district division, the county bonds. Why? It would have been tempting to say that the fish does not see the boundary under water. But it's obvious that here it's the residence address, how far north you come from, which is what should be determining, not how fishing dependent you are. Lange Nordahl refers to fishing dependence – but many municipalities along the coast are fishing dependent. Look at Herøy, look at Austevoll, look at Egersund. Yes, there are many municipalities that are fishing dependent, but it looks like some people think that fishing dependence is synonymous with North Norway. It's not. We must have a fleet adapted to the entire fishing industry. The structure of the fleet must be of such a character and with a variation that allows us to harvest sustainably from what nature gives us. You can't create such constructed problems between north and south. It's okay to move the concession from the south to the north, but you just don't have to try to do the opposite! This clearly shows that it is time, at least, to review and modernise the law of participants.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3571	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3574	I'll say it like that if there's any suggestions left, I'll take them up right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3579	There's one left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3582	Yeah, I haven't forgotten. The everyday life – also for the fisherman – is constantly changing. The social debate must be open to that. Modernisation of fleets, new industries, fishing for new species, product development, new and changed markets, increased focus on multi-stock management, new models of ownership and fishing fleets engaged in other industries, such as oil protection is one of several elements that should be an active part of a debate on the marine food industry. At the same time, the maritime feed industry is regulated to the greatest extent by legislation and regulations. It is regulated in such a way as to satisfy society's desire to have both coastal and sea-going fleets, we need conventional and pelagic fishing, and we need an industry that can create employment and prosperity along the coast. The law has to satisfy society's desire for where the owners live, who can own, rules for how much you can own, from whom you can buy, and to whom you can sell. We read from the department's letter of reply that the Council of State is well aware of this law. We in the Right also believe that there is a need for regulation, but we claim that it is absolutely essential that the regulation works as intended. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that in some cases it is not. Our intention with the proposal is to acquire more knowledge of the ownership and power conditions of the fishing industry. It is regrettable, and in my opinion also quite worrying, that the government of Stoltenberg does not want more knowledge and transparency around this field. In the fisheries sector, this issue has been the subject of a number of debates in recent years. Some of the cases were of ownership change in fishing industry holdings, where plants and activities remain in the north along with the trawls providing the raw material supply, but where ownership shifts have led to a change from north to south. Some permits were for the sale of so-called small trawlers from the fishing industry to active fishermen. Some of the cases concerned structural arrangements, which should be well known to the government parties. Inheritance and generational change also create problems and debates in this industry. The right-hand side of the Grand Duchy's investigation section examines the distribution of values, resources and owners between north and south, as well as finding out where the owners of the companies registered here actually live. From the Directorate of Fisheries, the Research Section of Stortinget was informed that the Directorate has a register of owners in which they are to have an overview of the owners referred to in the first subparagraph, but that ownership in the fishing industry has been spread in such a way that it is difficult to provide a concrete overview. It is difficult to explain how the catch value is allocated to the owner, based on the owner’s registers of the Directorate of Fisheries. In the opinion of the Right, it's quite unfortunate if the government doesn't have an overview of the real owners and power conditions in the industry, when we have a law to regulate this kind of thing. The reply of the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast of 14 June 2010 was also not very reassuring: ‘All information on owners from the trade mark register, however, is not always as easily presented as statistics.’ No, but we have a law, and then it must be possible to ask how it is. I get a little impressed when I hear the representative Lange Nordahl here claiming that the Right should cancel the county bond and such things. Now the matter came a little abruptly, but I sat and spoke up herring quotas that were sold from Finnmark and Trom's last year and a half. I got to 13. I think I'll get to about 20 before the evening is over. These allowances have also been sold downwards to Møre. The reason why they are sold is that a structural system has been introduced, which was changed under former fisheries minister Helga Pedersen, who is not allowed to be fully structured, as one could have done with a number of others. Now they're the quotas of such a size that they're not profitable, because sitting with one herring quota doesn't create profitability, and you sell it instead, so that you can get economy to another in operation. So this is a structural system, a policy and a regulation that makes us drain the country's territory for rights. Then the representative Lange Nordahl would like to say that it is the Right who is the big, ugly wolf here, but I suggest that she travels north and asks if it is such that everything is safe and well, and whether we have preserved all the rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3613	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3616	The Participation Act is an important pillar in a matter in which ownership and power are discussed in the fishing industry. It is the law of participants that gives the right to participate in fishing and fishing, and you cannot fish to serve the rest of your life, have catchable fishing, without authorisation. Ownership is documented in the trademark register, whether one is alone or has a vessel in a company with several owners. The vessel register contains all information about the vessel, who owns it and the number of concessions it has. The Participation Act, together with these registers, should provide a good overview of ownership and power conditions in the fishing industry. The proposers point out that there are inaccurate statistics from the Directorate for Fisheries. This applies, inter alia, to: restrictions on the sale of vessels from one area to another, or sales from North Norway to South Norway. There is also a lack of control over where the owners behind the companies registered, for example: in the north, actually living. I agree with the Right that it is unfortunate if the directorate has a system that is inaccurate. Then it has to be cleaned up. Any law that begins to grant exemptions can be eroded. It is therefore important to limit access to such exemptions. Authorities must have control over who owns and operates the boats. Another law, the Raw Fish Act, is also an important pillar of fisheries policy. Fishing resources must be managed in a long-term perspective. The importance of viable populations must be given to short-term nutritional reasons so that fish resources can continue to provide the basis for ownership and employment both at sea and on land. The Christian People's Party believes that the allocation of allowances should focus more on creating local jobs both at sea and on land. Renewal of the fishing fleet is important, but it must be avoided that renewal leads to the need for much larger quotas in order to remunerate the investments. It is important to ensure that young people are able to enter the industry and start as fishermen without major investments in boats and equipment. Many young people also have the opportunity to start fishing by continuing the family’s company. The Christian People's Party is, together with the Right and the Advance Party, a proposal to change the law, so that generation changes can take place in a more unbureaucratic way, and that the government addresses the issues of generation change in family-owned companies. We must have flexible arrangements here. I challenge the government to view this as part of the simplification that will happen in the future, without this eroding the law we have in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3631	In the setting, different batches are in different proportions. I'll be careful to comment on some of them. A primary purpose of the Participant Act is to maintain a fishing gear fleet. The law therefore sets out an activity requirement – it is necessary to have been an active fisherman on or by Norwegian fishing vessel in order to have access to own a vessel to fish for acquisition. Then we have some exceptions to this. Derogations apply to vessels less than 15 metres in order to be able to start as a fisherman with its own vessel. Exemption is granted when ‘economic and regional considerations so require’ and there are separate rules for inheritance and generation change. A minority of members of the Committee promote proposals to amend the legislation so that generational shifts can take place in a more unbureaucratic manner. I would remind you that these rules were amended in 2004, on the basis of a proposal from the Bondevik II government, in order to facilitate better the possibility for an heir or the person taking over after a generation change to be granted a five-year temporary acquisition permit – even if at that time the general activity requirement is not met. Later, we made changes to the rules for the fishermen, so that this got real content in the coastal fleet as well. Generational changes in a fishing boating company are not subject to more or less bureaucratic treatment than other applications, but must be applied for a acquisition authorisation and all information concerning the new ownership must be provided by the fisheries authorities. However, the condition for going from the temporary authorisation to an ordinary authorisation is that the general activity requirement is met. It is not necessary to be a fisherman on board the vessel in order to meet the activity requirement. An owner who manages the operation from a country may also be recognised as an active fisherman in the sense of the law. One would like to discuss whether such an activity requirement should apply to the person taking over a ship as a heir. I think that is necessary. Otherwise, during a few decades we would have undermined the activity requirement and the principle of a fishing rage fleet. The proposers have called for a case on ownership and power in the fishing industry and criticise the management's alleged lack of overview of the situation. As I went through in my letter to the Committee, the fisheries management has an overview of the ownership situation and can at any time provide information about both how much and what a single person or company owns, and how ownership is in a group of vessels or in the fleet as such. In many cases, an entity has complex ownership relationships. That is why the open registers do not always show sufficient information to enable one only to compile such records. However, information is available in the directorate’s internal registers and archives. These include: the need to be able to draw up such summaries that we need to have some ‘bureaucratic’ schemes — the obligation to apply for change in ownership and information about ownership through the company, back to people. On the basis of what I have said now, I have seen no reason to present such a case as the minority asks, simply because there are no indications that there is a problem. The highest concentration is found in the cod trawl group, where an extension of the concentration potential opened by an instruction from the Ministry in 2003 is now included in the 2006 concession regulation. In the case of the coastal fleet, a review was carried out in a 2007 ministerial consultation note, without any grounds for imposing any ownership restrictions. I must therefore be pleased that the majority of the committee rejects the minority’s proposal – not because the government is opposed to transparency about the ownership of the Norwegian fishing fleet, but because it is openness, and not because the government is receding to see the real picture of ownership, but because we have an overview. If we are to keep that overview, we are dependent on an obligation to apply and an obligation to provide information about the ownership of applications. If we are to maintain a fishing gear fleet, it must also be such that heirs choose to become fishermen on board or active administrative shipowners in order to retain ownership of the fishing vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3658	My question to the Council of State is as follows: In a family where you make a generation change, there are three children. One person is an economist and lives in Oslo. The other person works with something completely different and lives abroad. And the third person lives in Norway, then nearby, and can take over the shipping company. During the generational shift, the company is divided into three equal parts. So you divide by approx. 33 pst. on each. Under the Participant Act it is not recognised as ownership, because the proportion of the owner of the owner of the company, who must be an active fisherman, is too low. My question to the Council of State is, what is the most sensible thing about such a situation? Do you have to sell the boat, or do you have to force the others to surrender their legacy in order for the Council of State to have its will – a fishing rage fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3665	To go into the discussion about how the individual distributes his or her inheritance, I guess I'm going a little far, but I see the problem. I'm a second generation myself – not a fishing fleet, so we don't have such rules. For me and for the government it is important to have a fishing trip fleet. If we erode that legislation by allowing one not to have it, I imagine that in a few decades we will have a fleet owned by – yes, I may not mention professional groups here, because it can be perceived as something negative, but owned by one who is at least not active in the operation, either by the shipping company or by the boat. I think that's unfortunate. I believe in a fishing nest and active fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3672	Then I'm going to go my reasoning a little further, because then the fun comes with the law of participants. If the economic operator who lives in Oslo moves his business home, runs the business from the shipping office and says that I now keep accounts for this too, i.e. that I'm involved in the operation, that's okay. If you are a member of the shipping company, you can benefit from a derogation under the Act on participation in the shipping company. Then you can first get a five-year dispensation, and then it can be done permanently, because you're in and you run the company with the other heir. So the third one is outside. That's all right. Then my question to the Council of State is this: have you become something more fisherman for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3679	Now I'm going to try to think, even though it's starting to get far in the day. As far as I know – I have to take a small reservation – it is not a residence requirement related to the activity requirement. So where the activity is exercised, as long as someone is active -- that's the activity that determines, not where in the country you live, I think. I have to make a little reservation. I have the experts sitting behind here, so we're at least going to clarify the question before the evening is over. But I'll think it's the activity that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3686	When we started working on this matter, we sent a request to the Investigation Department of Storting, and we got the answer that the Council of State has read, that you could not give it here. My question now has to be purely administrative: does the Council of State think that the Storting should be answered when you ask and what seems to be a good answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3693	The answer is: Yes, the Stortinget will get an answer to the questions asked by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3698	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1603]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3716	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1604]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3724	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3732	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 9, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left motion No. 10, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 11 and 12, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 13–15, by Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 16, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 15 is included on s. 91 in the vote, while proposal No. 16 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President noted that proposal No. 16. from the Left, by the author of the motion for a resolution has been converted into a transmission proposal. However, this has not been communicated to the Chamber of Commons. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Left has made it clear to the Secretariat earlier today that this proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal. The President said this because she knows that there are several other parties who from the pulpit before today made it clear that they would support this proposal. But it's turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended to the Government to come to Stortinget with a view to legislating the academic freedom of researchers in institutions not covered by the Law on Higher Education.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 13–15, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up guidelines for the cultural school activities which ensure the professional and social profile of the offer.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an arrangement for a mandatory mentoring scheme in the form of an introductory year for newly educated teachers.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider further the final certification of teachers in relation to a mandatory mentoring scheme during an introductory year for newly trained teachers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3792	There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 11 and 12, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the funding system for the vocational schools and come back to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with its own case to extend the academic year to 11 months from the autumn of 2011.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3814	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the funding and organisation of the landlines by 2012 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3829	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the student support system of private institutions should be modified so that a greater part of the additional loan of tuition fees can be converted into scholarships if the examination has been passed and it takes place within a normal time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e3844	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1-8, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message on how the intention behind Section 9 of the Training Act is followed up and on how a wish for a future effort to prevent bullying in basic education.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the legislation on HMS requirements relating to public and private school buildings, in order to ensure equality between public and private in terms of penalties.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up an obligatory strategy on how the departments' internal and external offices, as well as the public sector, can assume a greater share of the responsibility for the admission of apprentices.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government, in consultation with the institutions, is asked to find a reasonable framework for grants to private universities for the establishment of new places of study and grants for infrastructure in private colleges.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to define Kristiansand and Bodø as press areas in the cost framework calculation for student housing, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2011, and to follow up the issue by developing new rules and rates to safeguard the real situation in the construction market.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, to assess in detail whether the grant is per. square metres for private church buildings take sufficient account of the increase in construction costs in recent years.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive plan for State measures to ensure the fire and burglary of peaceful and protective churches in the context of the revised National Budget for 2011. The plan should describe the main challenges in the field, review existing legislation and propose appropriate State measures.’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government to determine whether research institutes receiving basic funding from the State which do not have as their object may benefit from tax exemptions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e7268	This was not anticipated by the computer system. The secretary asks that we take this vote again, and that everyone press the for-button. Case No. 1, box area 16 with Roman numerals I to VII. As far as the President could record, there was unanimous agreement on this in the Chamber, but if this computer is to perceive it, everyone must vote with the for-button. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e7271	I would recommend the Advance Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e7276	That also applies to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e7281	Then the president believes that the computer system will work better after that. The right will also vote against, once they've thought about it a little bit. Then we're ready to vote. So we're dealing with the 16th range with the Roman numerals I to VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e8337	The President makes it clear here that a correction needs to be made: the amount proposed in the cancellation is not NOK 320000. That's a little bit of a change in detail. The right amount must be 320 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e8420	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 4, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the EU to negotiate with it the existing Parliament and Council Directive amending Directives 2006/48 and 2006/49 and the provisions on remuneration with a view to preventing, as far as possible, restrictions on the freedom of contract and the intervention in market mechanisms when implementing the Directives in Norway.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, this proposal will be put on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 24 November 2000 81 on the contribution pension, the second paragraph of Section 2 to 3 shall be replaced by the following: An undertaking not covered by the first subparagraph may set up a pension scheme for self-employed persons, for members of a member-like company or for employees of a limited liability company or public limited-liability company. Correspondingly, for freelances. The annual contribution limit for the scheme referred to in the first and second sentences shall be determined in accordance with Sections 5 to 4.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e8458	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 24 March 2000 16 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10269	The fourth paragraph of Section 5-7b is contested. The same applies to point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 9-3. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10284	It's going to add up to VI. The Progress Party has announced that they will vote against VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10298	It shall be counted against other paragraphs of II and III and the whole of I, IV, V and VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10308	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10318	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10326	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Right in the Stortinget meeting on 25 November 2010: «The government is asking the Government to repeal § 18-2 of the Regulation of the Training Act and § 7B-1 of the Regulation of the Private School Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10345	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Right in the Stortinget meeting on 25 November 2010: «The government asks the government to amend § 1A-1 in the regulation of the training law and § 2B-1 in the regulation of the private school law so that homework aid for 1–4. annual increments shall be reduced from 8 to 4 hours from 1 January 2011 and shall be completed from 1 July 2011 and lesson-aid for 8 to 10. annual increments shall be introduced as from 1 July 2011 with approximately 4 hours of the week.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10365	There is a vote on proposals made by the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 25 November 2010: ‘The Government is asked to adopt an amending regulation to Regulation No. 19 November 1999 1158 for filling in and finishing, etc. of the Tax Act of 26 March 1999 No 14, including any clarification of what is considered as a zero-emission vehicle.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10400	Apart from the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Rigmor Andersen Eide on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider both the adjustment of the allowance year and the increased allowance provision for by-catch as an instrument to balance the landings of cod over the year and return to the Storting appropriately.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10427	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to amend the quota year to start on 1 September. This is in order to achieve greater flexibility and adapt to market demands for fresh fish all year round.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10442	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking, together with the operators in the fishing industry on the fishing and purchasers side, to assess both the adjustment of the quota year and the increase in quota turnover for by-catch as an instrument to balance the landings of cod and, where appropriate, other species of fish, over the year and to propose accordingly in the spring of 2011.’» The right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10475	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Frank Bakke-Jensen on behalf of Right There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case explaining the real and underlying ownership and power conditions of the fishing industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10505	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a broad range of fisheries policy to be reviewed by the law of participants and the law of raw fish for the purpose of modernising, decorating and simplifying the legislation and making proposals in line with it by the end of 2011.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10519	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case on the limitations of the participant law, explaining whether they contribute to the effective achievement of the objectives of the law, the positive and negative consequences of the restrictions on ownership and to assess a distinction based on the size of the boats.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10539	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to amend the legislation so that changes to generations can take place in a more unbureaucratic manner, and to present a case to the Stortinget that addresses issues related to changes to generations in family-owned companies.’ The left will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10561	There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10581	The President proposes that this be sent to the Church, Education and Research Committee, which submits its draft nomination to the Judicial Committee – the President was a moment of doubt if it should also go to the Municipal Committee, but it does not appear in the papers – for an opinion before the vote is given. If no objections are raised by the Municipal Committee, this shall be deemed to have been adopted. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-09.ana.ud1879e10598	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
