ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e67	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e70	On behalf of the big business representatives Ulf Leirstein, Hans Olav Syversen, Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose a tax exemption for the automotive diesel tax for high-intensity biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e75	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e78	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on the use of government agencies at political events in and outside election campaigns.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e83	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e97	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e106	Let me first relate some comments to the concrete energy situation in Central Norway – and in the rest of the country and the Nordic countries, too. It can actually be summed up in one word, and it's: unacceptable. A situation in which electricity prices fluctuate as they have recently done is not acceptable. The main objectives of the Workers' Party and the Government are work for everyone. The government therefore suffers from all those in this region who have an unsafe working situation due to the variable and sometimes very high energy prices. We also have great sympathy with all those people in Central Norway and the rest of the country – and the North for that matter – who are going to get higher electricity bills. The reason for this situation has been, and there is little of us that can do anything about it. There has almost been no rainfall. We also have a situation with the Swedish nuclear power stations lying down. If you're going to be honest, and it's going to be from this chair, the situation is also a result of many years of emergency from different governments over very many years, by the fact that you haven't built the net to the extent that you should have. But now let the story speak for itself, and now we're going to see the future. Our government has granted billions of crowns of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement through Enova. Statnets will invest tens of billions of dollars in the repair and construction of new line network in the coming years. Especially the last is what will create a lasting better situation in Middle Norway. Only by making Norway one energy-rich through a well-developed grid for optimal flows of power across parts of the country can we achieve our long-term goal of a common electricity price across Norway. This is our goal, and this is what we're working purposefully for. So to the concrete situation in Central Norway and the proposals of the Progress Party that are being discussed here today. So we have a situation where 4,000 MW of nuclear power in Sweden is out of production. This has happened at a time of year when we can usually buy electricity on the Swedish market. At the same time, we have had strong cold over a very long time and some other unfortunate conditions. All of this at one time, as I said earlier, has led us into a difficult situation. However, it must be emphasised that the situation has been and is manageable. We don't – and we don't – have a ratio. It's true that the prices for a few short periods have been up to something over NOK 10 per person. kWh, but it is not correct when applied for as if this is the frequent and usual price in the region. It's grossly misleading and it's not right. The price has been very high for periods, but on average it has not been close to what is being produced here. With regard to mobile gas power plants, it may also be useful today to remind each other that we are talking about 300 MW of installed power in these works together – this in a situation where the loss of Swedish nuclear power alone is in the order of 4000 MW. In other words, we are not talking about any revolution at the start of these gas power stations. The Progress Party is trying to present the launch of these works as a kind of simsalabim effect to solve all the challenges. Of course it's not like that. I understand that it is the opposition's privilege to make political coins on the challenging situation in the region, in the country and in the Nordic region, but I do not think it is particularly responsible for the Progress Party. State networks have applied for a derogation from the concession terms as regards the possibility of starting up the mobile gas power stations. State networks want to be able to put mobile gas power plants in a position to operate within hours and not weeks, as it is today – this in order to be able to set them up quickly in case of outcomes or other difficult situations where system operators consider that the use of these facilities will be necessary to deal with the situation. This application is in favour of the NVE and is now on the Council of State table for final decision. Thus, the state network has not applied to change the current concession, as proposed by the Progress Party here today. The progress party clearly has an assessment of the situation different from that of the authority body set up to provide the day-to-day security of supply in the area. This is interesting enough to notice in itself. Worse, I think it would be strange if the Stortinget were to interfere in the specific process that is taking place during these days in connection with Statnett's application for a derogation. For this reason, the Labour Party today rejects the proposal put forward by the representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e132	Let me start by taking up the proposal, and it's done. I was greatly provoked by the way the representative Sund describes the proposal of the Progress Party, and by the kind of idiotization of the proposal that stands here. We're not saying that this is a simsalabim proposal. It is very clear that this is a contribution. If this becomes the tone of the red-green parties in this debate, it becomes very unfortunate to show that this is a serious problem. The force situation is serious. I won't go into it. We've seen sky-high electricity prices and sky-high average prices, even though we're not talking about many dollars. But at least the average price was 95 cents just a few days ago. The question is, How do we deal with it as the country’s legislative assembly? Are we going to let the market run completely, which is obviously the solution to the red-green batches, or are we going to make sure that the power generation that the state is directly involved can actually be applied here, and modify the legislation that the government has designed to implement? We have two mobile gas power plants, with a total capacity of 300 MW, which the state itself controls 100 pst. How should we use this to help consumers best in a difficult situation? And not least: how are we going to use these to prevent the risk of force rationalization later this winter and spring becoming imminent? That's what this is about. We know that the magazine fillings in Norway are now 40 pst. Under normal conditions. Tfjord Kraft has been up and measured the amount of snow in the mountains around its magazine. It's 50 pst. Under normal conditions. It promises bad for this spring. That's why it's a little risky, I think, when the government's plan is to have a start-up standby only if there's an acute power shortage in effect for a short period of time. What's the problem now is not a power problem, but an energy problem in volume terms, namely that we're in danger of running out of water during this spring. Then it's not just useful to talk about power, we have to talk about energy. Then mobile gas power plants can help us save water in a completely different way, because we have 300 MW of power that is running a stand. After all, that's 8 pst. of the installed effect in this region we are talking about. So let's not just talk about the Nordic market and let it become a little number -- that's 8 pst. the effect in the region. Is it too expensive?SV will probably claim in this debate that it costs NOK 3–4 per cent. kWh. We sent an address to Energy Norway and to Natural Power – there are different actors operating gas power plants, and they know this. They said that with today's gas price, with today's climate quota price and with normal operating costs, the variable price is by operating these max. 50 øre. The estimate was between 45 and 50 cents. So there's the cost in the market for the state to go into zero to operate this. And then we can also take on the positive side that someone likes to increase the security of power supply, which means that the country actually pays all this, and that it's not taken out in the market – but even if Statnet takes everything on the market, it's 50 cents they have to have for it to go to zero, not 4 cents. I fully agree that there are long-term solutions that need to be put in place, but no matter how much we discuss wiring, energy saving and green certificates, that doesn't help this spring. It's only the mobile gas power plants that we have to dispose of, that's the solution now. They don't mean anything, you might say. Yes well: Trunder-Avisa had a look-up yesterday – ‘NTE races over Statnet disconnection’ – because Statnet took away 400 MW of line capacity to the Trøndelag region for five hours. The result was a power price that went straight up. It was 400 MW. It's just a little bit more than the mobile gas plants give. This has an effect. That's why this is so important. We promoted this proposal because we saw in the media that many red-green representatives went out and said: we have to put these into use, both in order to balance prices and, not least, in order to prevent rations later this year. ‘For the use of contested gas power plants’, the NRK Trøndelag website says today. «If the Minister of Oil and Energy comes to Stortinget with such a proposal, it will have a large majority», says Mr Kristoffersen of the Workers' Party. It should be «a piece of cake», but it refers to the fact that one has to make changes to the legislation in order to achieve this. Here was the invitation. In terms of criteria, we haven't said what price level you're going to set. We've let this go to the Government to show the will to flexibility from our side and not override. But we wanted the Storting to give the authority, so that one could now get started. Then I get very depressed if that's right, what the Sunnmørspost says, that the red-green parties are forced to vote no. Now, in Stortinget, we have a golden opportunity to give a marshaller, an authority to the Government, to resolve this situation, so that the risk of a power supply crisis is reduced to springtime. Let's not discuss price, let's discuss how to ensure that the power does not disappear to spring. Then it's a good way to use mobile gas plants to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e162	This winter has been both cold and low-precipitation. As a result, power consumption has naturally been high. The combination of long-lasting cold, low filling density in our water storage plants, Swedish nuclear power that has been out of production and defects in the NorNed cable have led to an increase in electricity prices. The situation in winter must be said to be quite extraordinary. It shows, among other things: our vulnerability by having a power supply with a high share of hydropower. For parts of Norway, this winter has resulted in extra high electricity prices. Of course, I'm thinking about the Mid-Norway price range. In fact, electricity prices at some times have been more than NOK 11 per person. kWh in February in this area. It is understandable that both individuals and businesses react to this price picture. A lot of fear of the power bill. This is an exceptional situation, but it is not the first time this area is experiencing a price crisis on electricity. The whole country experienced very high prices in the dry year 2002/2003. It showed how vulnerable we are. Statnet has been warning us since 2005 that we will be able to face a very difficult situation in central Norway if no action is taken to increase local power generation or transfer capacity into the area. Therefore, this situation cannot be claimed to be unexpected. Rather, it's a notified crisis. The background to the country being divided into different price ranges is, as you know, that the network capacity is not adequate throughout the country, that there are some bottlenecks, which mean that in some areas of the country we have to have a particularly high electricity price – both to ensure supply in the area and to balance consumption, so that we do not get into a situation of supply crisis and a threat of rationalisation. There is little doubt that the system is working. With the high prices we've seen over time in Middle Norway, it's clear that most people will save on the current where they can. Enterprises reduce capacity utilisation, either as a result of their agreement with the authorities to release energy, or as a result of their actual failure to achieve profitability in production at such high costs. This is a very regrettable situation. Sooner or later, electricity prices will fall – after the Centre Party’s action at lower prices, as reported in Dagbladet last week, i.e. milder weather and more rain, has been implemented. It is good if prices go down, but the impression that is attached – how attractive business and industry start-up in central Norway will be with this type of electricity prices – can be serious for the region. And that's what we regret in the right of the strongest. We are concerned with good and predictable business framework conditions. It must also apply to Middle Norway. The challenges of network capacity are a problem that we have known for a long time. Already in the spring of 2006, the Minister for Oil and Energy announced, in the context of a proposal from the Right, that he would present an action plan for the power supply in Central Norway in early autumn 2006. This action plan has never been presented, either by former state councillors Odd Roger Enoxsen and Åslaug Haga or by current state councillor Terje Riis-Johansen. Such an action plan, with its follow-up, could have removed the bottleneck that has led Mid-Norway to pay a disproportionately high electricity price compared to the rest of the country. Unfortunately, nothing has been done, and from the Right we will criticise the Government and the Minister of Oil and Energy for not having acted. During the previous price crisis, Labour Party leader Jens Stoltenberg at the time asked Minister for Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs to step up and take responsibility for the fact that the power prices had gone to heaven, and stated to Dagbladet on 16 December 2002: ‘An oil and energy minister shall implement short-term and long-term measures if electricity prices make such jumps as we have seen in the last few weeks. He has the possibilities, but he doesn't use them. That's what's up." The red-green parties have been in government and have had a majority for almost five years. They have had every opportunity to make investments in networks. They didn't. Private individuals and businesses in Central Norway now have to pay the government's emergency price on these questions. The right has put forward representative proposals on this issue three times in all: the spring of 2006, the winter of 2009 and again, during the current ageing period. We can't have a situation where a person in central Norway has a much higher electricity price than a person in the South West, especially when Statnett, the state's own company, has a monopoly on the central network. There is a reserve capacity in the area in the form of these two mobile gas power stations, purchased for use in the event of a threat to security of supply. This was one of the measures taken by the Bondevik II Government, in the wake of the crisis in the early 2000s. The mobile gas power plants were to be used in case we moved towards a situation with a risk of rationalisation. The right behind the start-up criteria. The situation we are now in is not a supply crisis, but a price crisis. Therefore, the Right wishes to re-evaluate the criteria. And we want to give the government the power to start up the mobile gas power plants. I would like to take up the two proposals from the Right and say that we will subsidly support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e195	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e198	I interpret this proposal as part of what some people have tried to create, that one with a start-up of the mobile gas power plants will solve all the price problems we have experienced, and experience, in Middle Norway. The country has experienced the effects of a strong market link with other parts of the Nordic region. Therefore, there is something unreasonable about parts of the opposition’s presentation of the situation. Particularly unfortunate is the fact that many people in central Norway can get the impression that this one measure, the start of these gas power stations, will greatly help consumers. There is something backwards about the argumentation, especially about the arguments of the Progress Party – which would normally have as few regulation as possible in terms of the market – when they try to present it as if it were the red-greens that celebrate the free market. On the contrary, it is signed that in the public debate over the last few weeks it has pointed to weaknesses in today’s power market and has pointed to a number of measures that could regulate the market, measures that could also be noticed in terms of long-term industry and lower electricity bills for people — while the Progress Party has used all its forces in one map. Something has to be done when it has been found that my part of the country was a net exporter of power the hours the prices went to verse. It does not make sense that it is cheaper to heat up the driveway on Frogner than to warm up the house in Trondheim when the cold is at its worst. It's these market mechanisms that have to be superseded, to pay for the power bill to people. It is the measures that prevent us from experiencing this also next year, and the year after that, which should be discussed here in the Chamber, not measures that, according to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Statnet itself, are not, and were never meant to be, a price measure. I think we owe that to the people of Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e207	A cold winter and low rainfall has given us a challenging power situation, with high prices. In our country, the high price level is giving rise to special results in Central Norway and North Norway. The common Nordic electricity market is not just a Norwegian phenomenon. Sweden, Finland and parts of Denmark have a high electricity price. Through this single market for electricity, Norwegian electricity prices are largely characterised by the absence of large parts of the Swedish nuclear power, which means that much less power than usual is available in the market. People in Central Norway, North Norway and other parts of the country are concerned about high power prices. We must respect that. Let me start by pointing to three important long-term measures in the years ahead to avoid a situation like the one we're up to now. The need to increase renewable energy production has been pointed out on several occasions by the Centre Party. The current situation shows that precisely such an increase will be important to ensure stable and good power supply at an affordable price, whether it is for households, businesses or municipalities, and because we have a great untapped potential both for water power and for wind power and bioenergy. At the same time, we must push research into the areas that can become future energy sources, such as energy. offshore wind, osmotic pressure wave, tide, algal cultivation and much more. This is an important bet area if we're to be an energy nation in the future. It is therefore not only important when it relates to the situation we are discussing today, namely the importance of security of supply, but also when it concerns good environmental policy and industrial policy. Item No 2 is net. It is absolutely crucial to secure a robust power grid. The network is a critically important infrastructure, precisely to be able to bring power at any time to the areas where there is a greater need for it. The online wager has not been sufficient in the last decade. Statnett has now presented a strategy for the development of networks, and it is important that, from a political point of view, we make it possible to secure the necessary deployments to ensure sufficient network capacity. We know that the 420 kV line between Ørskog and Fardal is completely central to ensuring e.g. Middle Norway's stable supply of power, it is also, like many other lines, very important to realise renewable power generation. The situation we are up today also shows that it must become an even clearer political goal to make us less dependent on electricity, for example. heating. Here we have other alternatives that are effective and good, while at the same time we will be able to release power for other purposes and make the power supply more robust over longer periods of cold, like the one we're in now. This and other types of energy efficiency are therefore an important element of future energy policy. I would have hoped that this debate could also be a debate – preferably on short-term measures, but also in the long term – that will resolve the situation we are facing. I agree with the representative Valen's words that a large number of manufacturers are proposing the start-up of mobile gas power plants to resolve the price situation in Central Norway and North Norway – there is little to suggest. There is little evidence that the start-up of these power plants will significantly affect the price. In particular, if one is to compensate or reduce the output of water to save the water in the warehouse for the future, one of the corresponding minor effects of this would be to reduce it. That's why it's important that we be honest at these points to the many people who are now concerned about the power calculation saying – that's what people demand that we be honest about. There's no quick fix on the situation we're up in, but it requires extra attention in the future. Proposal providers want to change the concession requirements of State networks for mobile gas plants, so that price signals and not just security of supply are increasingly taken into account today. It is a rather different proposal from what Statnet itself has applied for, and is now being assessed, which is quite specific in terms of security of supply and the ability to come up with power generation at shorter notice, if possible. Now I see the time is running fast, President. The centre party is occupied by the security of supply represented by these power plants. Therefore, preparedness is right, but according to the current situation, it is right to have the start of a regular assessment based on security of supply and not on the current price situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e233	Fortunately, the time is right for all representatives in the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e236	The strenuous power situation of the last weeks with galloping power prices in Central Norway, the decommissioning of Norwegian water storage plants and the Swedish nuclear power for half-machinery, has led to a very unfortunate situation for power users in large parts of the country, as well as for businesses in central Norway and in northern Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that this situation shows that market governance in the energy sector has gone too far, and that the government has been too passive in recent years to put in place new power generation, a better power exchange between parts of the country and increased energy efficiency. Instead, more and more price ranges for electricity have been introduced. The introduction of price ranges is a mechanism, but this mechanism really shifts responsibility from the authorities and the market to consumers, who must relate us to an energy system that is not optimal. A little bit of energy gives higher prices. There are many things that limp in our energy policy. We benefit from a comprehensive review of the energy policy of this government. The last time we had such a review was under the Bondevik II government in 2003. The Christian People's Party believes that the time is overdue for this – that we must now see climate and energy together and make a ten-year plan in this area as well as where we will be in 2020. But it's that in this hall, the power is the one that's coming, and the power isn't entirely on this track, but the opposition isn't going to surrender in this area. Before the Energy Act was amended in 1990, fixed decision-making rules were used to determine the right production capacity. One main motive for going away from this was that this model was not optimal when it comes to exploiting society's resources. After the outsourcing of power generation in 1991, it is assumed that the commercial interests of operators are the same as those of society in terms of security of supply and production capacity. I believe that today’s situation – which we have been up in this year, but also in previous years – shows that the assumption we made does not hold true. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to strengthen the Minister of Energy's responsibility in terms of security of supply. The current government has implemented few new measures in relation to the strained power situation in Central Norway. Both the spare power plants and the investigation into new power lines between Ørskog and Fardal were set up under the Bondevik II government in 2003. It is probably the case that the spare power plants were never meant to ensure the energy balance in the long term, nor to be insurance against high electricity prices. This is reflected by the fact that the back-up power plants are to be put into operation only after further approval, in the form of individual decisions of the NVE. We have today received a letter from the Council of State saying that the spare power plants have a capacity of 300 MW. This is in the order of 8 pst. of the total installed generation capacity in Central Norway. If you see Mid-Norway as a separate price range, the implementation of these will have an impact on the price. However, in the situation we have now experienced, Mid-Norway, together with North Norway, Finland and Sweden, has been a separate price range, and then – as the Council of State writes to the Stortinget today – it is a very limited impact on the price by launching these two reserve power plants. The Christian People's Party believes that the proposals of the Advancement Party prescribe the wrong medicine for proper diagnosis. There is a need for measures to improve security of supply and the balance of power in Central Norway, and the Christian People's Party is promoting proposals for the investigation and establishment of environmentally friendly reserve power solutions in the Norwegian power market, and we are also proposing to strengthen the political governance of the energy sector. I'm glad that Ketil Solvik-Olsen in his post says that he also sees the importance of strengthening the political part of the energy market. I am thus addressing the two proposals I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e259	The representative Line Henriette Heimdal has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e263	The situation in the power market in Norway is not satisfactory. The Oslo area, the Hammerfest area and, in particular, the Bergen area and the Middle Norway have a too weak central network. This year it has given dramatic results. The price of electricity has been and is different in Norway. In addition, the state network now assesses the central Norway warehouse filling as tight and the operating situation as challenging in the event of an outcome. This is a situation I as an oil and energy minister are very little comfortable with. The close explanation is a very cold winter and, above all, that as much as 5,000 MW of Swedish nuclear power has been out of the market – the last as a result of maintenance at the Swedish works. 5000 MW is above 5 pst. of the installed effect on the common Nordic market. It is not possible to replace it with short-term measures. Today, about 3100 MW are out of the Nordic market due to the same problem situation. However, the longer-term explanation that we have different prices of electricity in Norway is different. This is due to 20 years of neglect in Norway. Since 1990, investment in the central network has been low in Norway – they have been too low. That's regrettable, and we have to do something about it, and we're doing something about it now. But as everyone knows, central networks take time to build. I do not want major regional price differences in Norway. My goal is that everyone in Norway should have equal price of electricity. It requires new power generation. It requires energy efficiency improvement. It requires increased use of direct heat and requires a good internal transmission system in Norway and in other countries. Statnet’s two mobile gas power plants in Central Norway constitute energy reserves for use in very demanding power situations, situations where the risk of rationalisation is assessed to be high. The purpose of the use is to avoid severe energy shortages and hence rationalisation. This is mentioned in Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, and the Committee had no comments on this point when it was discussed at Stortinget last spring. Under current concessions, high power prices are not a criterion for starting back-up power plants. In addition, the starting point for the entry into service of the works shall be that Statnet uses all other means to deal with any strained power situation before the start of the operation of the mobile power plants. In particular, pursuant to the Energy Code § 7-4, exemptions may be granted from the conditions granted under the Energy Act. The NVE has now received such an application from Statnett and has already submitted its recommendation to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Statnet must also apply to the Ministry of the Environment for the conversion of the emissions permit. According to Statnett, it will be done as soon as possible. In the application, Statnett points out that there are no very strenuous power situations, SAKS, in central Norway today, but that the power situation is tight. Low levels of storage lead to difficulties for several power plants in providing adequate power reserves in an efficient operating situation. According to the NVE’s submission to the application, one or more individual events may result in a rapid change in the situation. Examples include reduced import capacity from Sweden, individual outcomes of important components and higher consumption due to low temperature. Such events may lead to challenging situations for the short-term balance of effects and the longer-term energy balance. The application for a derogation is limited to 31 May of this year. The application is now under examination in the department, and therefore I cannot comment further on the content or evaluation of it now. At the initiative of Norway, meetings have been held at political level between Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark on these issues. Countries agreed on the long-term work for more networks and more production. It includes, inter alia: multiple cross-border connections and the Norwegian-Swedish certificate market. On Thursday 25 February, I had a telephone meeting with my Swedish colleague Maud Olofsson, where I, among other things, was given an up-to-date status on the situation with the absence of Swedish nuclear power generation. I understand that many ask questions about the robustness of the Nordic power system when we see the extreme price results we have had in the Nordic region this winter. I believe the situation of winter has been unfortunate. I would therefore like to take the initiative of my Swedish colleague to start a review of how our common power market works, and how we have experienced this winter, can be avoided. I have also asked the NVE to draw up a report on the winter power situation in the Nordic region. In particular, I have asked them to assess the use of the reserve power plants. I do this because the situation of winter has been unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e297	The debate today has been very exciting. Those who try to ignore the proposal argue only on the basis of the price question. The proposal is probably so much a question of energy balance and energy reserves this spring. It's going to take over. What is missing today is not effective. What Statnet has the ability to start up its gas power plants is power problems. What we're talking about here is that there's probably so much energy problem with low magazine fillings, very low snow reserves. Therefore, I would like to ask the State Council to confirm whether the authorities can rule out a situation in which there is actually a lack of energy in this area, and where the mobile gas power stations are not enough to address the deficiency, both in relation to the risk that lines to the rest of the world will fall, be put out due to maintenance, or that a mere use of too much electricity and have not used the mobile gas power plants before. Can the Council of State guarantee that there will not be an energy shortage in central Norway this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e306	I think my post was marked by being an intervention by a concerned minister in relation to the situation we have in parts of Norway now. With regard to the specific issues raised by the representative, about the effect versus energy and the somewhat longer term here, I also mentioned that in my post. I believe we have a challenging situation in terms of energy supply in parts of Norway by 2011. As of today, I believe the challenges are greater in relation to winter 2011 than in spring 2010. But we have little snow in the mountains, and that's a challenging situation right now. In the case of gas power stations and their start-up, the reality is that, within the ordinary regime of the gas power plants in Central Norway, the opening of State grids is to promote applications based on their assessment of energy in the region. So what the representative is now taking up is covered up within the regime that applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e315	It is good that the Council of State has taken the initiative towards its Swedish colleague and other Nordic colleagues in the situation in the Nordic region. But it would have been even better if the Council of State could show action in relation to the situation at home. Here we are talking about a notified crisis. It's happened before. The government has had a majority, they can do whatever they want, and there is no action. Where should the pain limit go as to what people and businesses in Central Norway are going to pay, because this government is not able to act? That's the one question. The second is: how does the Council of State come forward with the two proposals presented from the Right today to include prices as part of the criteria for start-up, and that we ask the Stortinget to give the Government the power to start up these mobile gas power stations prior to the new criteria and guidelines being in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e322	The last question I will almost refer to is the comment and the job that the representative Meling was also involved in when this question was considered in the Committee in connection with Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009 before the summer holiday last year, where there was agreement on the criteria for starting up power plants. This issue was discussed by the Government in this connection. As far as I have been able to read the setting, there was no deviation from that view then. It has also been achieved in the debate so far today that what was going on at the time is also the position of the government parties on it now. When it comes to nothing being done, I just completely disagree with the representative. I believe that the fact that we have spent SEK 5 billion in the region, that we have put in place cross-links with Sweden, Nea–Järpströmmen, is quite concrete examples of central Norway being focused on network reinforcements. Furthermore, there are plans for DKK 2.5 billion to be used in the region. So it's completely wrong what the representative Meling says, that nothing is being done in the region. There's a lot of focus, billions of dollars are spent to improve the power situation in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e329	The Council of State concluded its observations by saying that the situation of winter has been ‘unacceptable’. He began his post by saying that it was not satisfactory not to have equal power prices across the country. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is not satisfactory not to have equal electricity prices across the country. This can be solved. It can be solved in the short term. The Council of State also stated that it took a long time, to develop central networks, to increase power generation and also to improve energy efficiency. But price ranges can do something about this in the short term by cancelling the different price ranges, four or five price ranges that we have a little bit to different days. Will the Council of State assess this precisely in order to achieve the objective of equal electricity prices across the country — and thus to be effective in the short term as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e334	It's a very scary form of action. My main concern, my main concern about the power situation throughout Norway, is ready to make sure that people in Norway have enough power. We obviously have a tough situation today because prices have been very high in parts of the country. But in relation to a situation where people would experience a lack of power, we still have a long way to go about what kind of crisis we're talking about. Indeed, the introduction of price ranges is an instrument to avoid that type of crisis. So I must warn against the idea that Mr Hemdal's representative is coming here. It is simply not sound in terms of ensuring sufficient supply of electricity for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e339	I want to follow up on something the Council of State said in its first response to me, namely that in the winter of 2011, he saw 2011 as a bigger challenge than in the spring of 2010. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Energy and the Environment had become a well-known member of the NVE. Then the danger of streamration in Central Norway was estimated to be approx. 10 pst. Today, a few weeks later, the father is estimated to be about 30-35 pst. In a short time, this has taken such a significant step. Then I become seriously concerned when the Council of State says that he sees that 2011 is getting worse than spring 2010, and then we talk in the winter of 2011. But what should the spring of 2011 look like when we know that we've used even more of the water reservoirs during the winter, and the snow smelting hasn't started? Could the Council of States, in order to be very clear, exclude that there will be errors that will allow us to come to lack energy in More and Romesdal, which we could have avoided if one had started up the mobile gas power plants earlier? So, can the State Council guarantee that there will not be a security of power supply situation this winter in Middle Norway, which one could have avoided if one had started the mobile gas power plants now? We want a more offensive approach to when Statnett can start these. It is not Statnet that has made the legislation. It's a political set of rules, which we have every opportunity to change to give Statnet further powers, more offensive powers, which I also think Statnett would have been very comfortable with if they had been given. But we know that the underlying problem here is that mobile gas power plants emit CO2, and then this government gets paralysed – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e353	Now I think we're starting to speak the same language. When the representative Solvik-Olsen focuses on the power supply situation in central Norway up against the mobile gas power plants, we are on track and inside what this is actually about. That is why Statnett has, according to his own argument, submitted an exemption request now. They believe that the network now has such a high load, and that based on an impact situation, one considers the situation as potentially serious and wants to have a short start-up time on these power plants. That's the one part. The second is about the energy situation and something more long-term, which is also part of the assessments that Statenet is going to do. So what the representative here is taking up has my full focus. It is within the assessment to be made by Statenett. It is not possible to provide any guarantees in relation to what the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, asks about. That's also why I was so clear about my concerns on the pulpit right now. Avoiding that situation arises is precisely what is important in this discussion that is around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e360	First, I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that this representative was not at Stortinget in spring 2009. So I did not agree to that treatment, but my part of the right was also behind the criteria for granting the concession. Let's put that behind us. When the situation is that we are now facing a price crisis, where the electricity price is very high for the population, industry and business in Central Norway, a relevant question must be: Where is the pain limit for what they are going to pay because the government has not repaired the network capacity in the area? Because there are people in Middle Norway, there are businesses, and there are jobs we're talking about. There is no reasonableness that I, who live in the South West, should have a far less bill than my colleague who lives in Central Norway, as long as it is the State and Statnett, who is 100 pst. state-owned, which is responsible for the expansion and operation of the network capacity that is now the bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e368	I fully agree that there are obvious pain limits for this. The price peaks we've seen have been unacceptable price levels. They've been short-lived, but they just represent a level that one is not close to being able to defend as a general price of energy. So here's the situation that we've seen situations that I see as unacceptable. That's exactly why I said what I said on the platform, that I now want to go through this and get the NVE's assessments of what has happened in the last few months. I also want to go through it with the Swedish authorities to just look at the same thing, with one goal in mind, namely to avoid this happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e373	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e378	This has been a strange debate, a debate that has been marked by the fact that the representatives of the government parties and the state council have almost done an exercise to try to run as far away from the issue as possible in order not to have to be held responsible for the situation that actually exists in Central Norway. It is at least nice to be able to read that the red-green representatives from More and Romesdal want to support this proposal, but democracy internally in the government parties has said that they are not allowed to do so, they are forced to vote no. It's in today's papers. It's worth noting, especially about the representatives of the Center Party, who talk about local autonomy, local democracy, etc. It has also been interesting to have the debate for the time being, that the representatives of the government parties, i.e. a government based on the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, are asking where it is going to be of the Swedish nuclear power. That in itself is a point for this hall. I'm a little unsure if you've read the proposal, especially after hearing the Council of State in a line change with the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen say that when you talk about energy supply, you start speaking the same language. That is precisely what is said in the proposal from the Progress Party. You just refer to the problem that as long as we produce and drain further out of the water reservoirs, in a situation where there is little snow in the mountains, there is little water in the warehouses, we actually create a difficult situation for next year. If we get a dry spring or a dry harvest, you can't actually fill up the water reservoirs again. Then we're going to get an even worse situation next year. It is dangerous when we see that the industry is already outlawing. It's dangerous when many companies warn that if we don't get anything in place now, they're also going to have to permite and cancel employees. Businesses can go beyond the end because they do not tackle the prices. This matter is not just about getting the price down. This matter is also about putting capacity into place. When we also have a government that has conducted a dividend policy towards Statnett where one has taken out between 85 and 98 pst. in return by a company to finance the central network, it has already been announced that the situation will not be taken seriously. It will be very exciting to look at this voting today. It's going to be very exciting to see if you take into account the situation, or if you have to go backwards into next year, knowing that the inhabitants of Middle Norway will once again get high electricity prices, and actually also the possibility of rationalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e395	Many good arguments have been put forward for the launch of the mobile gas power plants so far in the debate. As a reserve source for Middle Norway, there is no understanding among the majority of people that starting requirements are so inappropriate that we are on the way into the crisis without being able to use the reserves that exist. When it comes to the representatives of the red-greens that have emerged today, there is not one measure to which they have referred, which does not have a five- to ten-year time perspective. We see that today's situation is that the water magasina is heavily drained, and the level of flooding in the whole of the Middle Norwegian market is now down to 25.8 p.p., that is, far below the normal level, and the amount of snow in the mountains has also been estimated to be well below a normal year. All the lights are red, but still this is not enough, and it is not defined to be subject to today's framework conditions to start up gas power plants. Then we see that the NVE has been applied for permission to launch under given regulations, but neither do these cover up under today's challenges such as low magazine or sky-high power prices. We also read in the media that in three weeks, the line from Tidal to Sweden will be decommissioned due to an upgrade, with a calculated increase in the power price that represents an extra charge for consumers of at least 500 million. NOK 4,2 billion in the worst case. This is totally unsustainable. Then my question is, where are all these red-green politicians who would vote for start-up, advertised through the media? One thing is to think that it is irresponsible to start up gas power plants – I respect that – but it is directly dishonest to tell them that they understand the problem and will vote for a proposal to start up, if such a proposal is made in the Stortinget. Today is the time for the proposal, and there is a right to vote for it. I want to make the word of Bergsvein Broeske the central party commanders: now one must take power from the accounting officers in the department and fire the gas power stations immediately; the government cannot continue to fail people and businesses in central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e410	As some other representatives have said before, this has been a very nice debate. There has also been a debate in which the parties to the Government have demonstrated their immunity, both in the long term and not least in the short term, as this proposal is concerned. We know that the price and situation of Middle Norway are dramatic. It's nothing new. It has been for many, many years. We've debated it every year, the difference is just that it gets worse every year that goes. Where are the concrete actions of the government parties? One is good at using the election campaign to fly out in the media and appear as a guarantor to solve the problem. As soon as the election campaign is over, no world thing happens. I expect the voters to get tired of being tricked over and over again, and have noticed quite clearly how this government is handling the power situation in central Norway. But then I have some questions about something that I don't really understand, when the Council of State says that getting the mobile gas power plants started will have little effect and also limited power in terms of price. Yesterday, the Tronder-Avisa says that when you shut off 400 MW, the average price goes up by 30 cents, but adding 300 MW will have no effect – almost the same thing. There's, at least at my discretion, a logical flaw that I don't fully understand. So I also ask another question: how high will the price be, how big will the crisis be, and how serious is it to be before action is taken and the mobile gas power plants are started? So here you have purchased mobile gas power plants for NOK 2.5 billion that are not to be used. I also think that is a very special situation. We know that much of the situation that has arisen is due to long-term emergency. We know that many of the interventions were to be taken in 1996–1997, especially from 1997 to 2000. That time, I suppose, Marit Arnstad from the Central Party sat as Minister of Oil and Energy. Today we have a new central party representative as Minister for Oil and Energy. To put it mildly, at least in Nord-Trøndelag we have poor experience with government councils in that department of the Senterpartiet. Time and again, it has been shown that nothing is happening, but that they are contributing to the strengthening of crises, which I find sad. I could have wished that the representatives of the government parties, who represent Middle Norway, had been in the hall today and voted for what they have said they will vote for in the media, instead of jumping out of this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e423	For the sake of order, the President would remind us that voting does not take place now, but later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e426	Several of the red-green speakers today have caused this to be about the absence of Swedish nuclear power. There is a situation that has arisen in winter 2009–2010. The power crisis in Central Norway began to debate as early as 2005. There will also be something paradoxical when I hear red-green politicians rage around the pulpit in Stortinget and worry that we don't have enough nuclear power in Norway, when a debate about just the production of nuclear power in Norway is completely unimaginable for the same crowd. So many people say that gas power won't have any effect. It's a reality that's far from where I, the business community and the power producers in Trøndelag and Middle Norway are. We have two problems in Trøndelag. One is the power balance, the momentary capacity, with respect to the supply of power at all times. The second is the energy balance. To think that 2.5 TW, i.e. approx. 2 pst. increase, in Norwegian power generation in Central Norway will not affect both the power balance and the energy balance, and thus the price – and at least take out situations where we have 11-14 SEK/kWt in Trøndelag – I believe that I am at the limit of being knowledgeless. Over the last 14 days, we've gone from 15 to 35 pst. chance of a very strenuous power situation in central Norway. We have had several closures and lay-offs in the industry in the region. And then you say from the red-green side that the construction of the Ørskog-Fardal line is a large part of the solution. That's absolutely correct. When we sat and discussed this fall in 2005, the red-green government said that the line will be ready in 2010. Now the same government says it might be done in 2015. We have not come a single centimeter closer to the realization of Ørskog-Fardal after four to five years of red-green rule. The Ministry of Oil and Energy can grant a concession to Ørskog-Fardal tomorrow. If you want to build this line and secure the power supply in Middle Norway, you can grant a concession to Ørskog-Fardal tomorrow. But then I have to go to the representatives Serigstad Valen and Sande, who learn with substituting arguments: when it comes to the climate debate, you have to be before. However, with regard to the power situation in Central Norway, it is assumed that 2.5 TWh of production may not have any more power, so at least that production should not be started. So the central part of all the central Norwegian states requires the start of the gas power plants. What is the Central Party in Central Norway that Erling Sande apparently has not understood? And to Snorre Serigstad Valen, I just have to say that it is nice that he is also concerned about Swedish nuclear power, but we all know that the real reason why Snorre Serigstad Valen will not have the opening of gas power production in Middle Norway is that he is, ideologically conditional, against gas power, and is willing to sacrifice consumers and industrial workplaces in Trøndelag on the altar of gas resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e441	The President may point out that there are more appropriate parliamentary speeches of co-representatives than ‘the same crowd’ – for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e444	I am very disappointed that red-green politicians do not take over the serious business situation in Central Norway. There are many examples that the current situation is totally unacceptable. Norwegian Forest in Forest has an agreement with the power supplier to stop a paper machine when the price comes above 70 centimetres/kWt. They've had nine stops in winter with extra costs in the million class every time. Fezil in Orkanger has 150 jobs, Washington Mills in Hurricane has 150 jobs and the local environment has a ringing effect of 340 million. kr, and Holla melting plants in Hemne have 150 jobs. This is very important, and I am very disappointed that red-green politicians have not taken that situation sufficiently into account. I'm also very disappointed in the gap between the different parts on the red-green side. I fully agree with the Council of State on the long-term challenges with regard to the power grid in central Norway and the process towards finding a final solution also for Ørskog-Fardal. What this is about are the short-term solutions. On the right is a proposal to empower the Government to start up the mobile gas power plants on the Tjeldbergodden and Aukra. It might also be interesting to see what impact 300 MW will have on the price, among other things. in Mid Norway, also to be able to have an actual ratio to watch when to assess it later. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that in the past, as far back as 2006, Right has suggested that we have an action plan to look at the power situation in Central Norway. That proposal comes because these are complicated questions, and one has to consider different solutions. I am very disappointed that this action plan has not been put in place, and I would like to remind you that Right now also has a new proposal for an action plan for Middle Norway, precisely to find future solutions and use the experience we have to find solutions in Middle Norway and elsewhere. We need a strong network to generate energy for all parts of the country, and we need different ways to do it. Therefore, it is also important that an action plan for Central Norway can assess different solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e461	I think this debate exemplifies a bit of the whole democracy debate in Norway has gone on, namely that the Stortinget no longer has any practical power as long as we have a majority rule. So we've had minimal red-green representatives up here. You have taken the obligations you are expected to take with you five minutes, but nothing more. But in the media, the same representatives and others have been very active in making all possible demands. I think we can see here that the red-greens understand that they have no power in this room over their own government, they have been dictated to vote against – I am deeply sorry. That abduction was also exemplified by the intervention of the representative Serigstad Valen, where he claimed that, unlike the Progress Party, he is fighting for another type of power market and another type of power policy in that country. Then I don't think the representative was present in Wednesday's Question Time, where the Prime Minister honoured the system we have today, thought it was through-regulated and that the politicians had all the power they needed over just this power market. But the representative Serigstad Valen is obviously sometimes in opposition to the government that sits. I wish that many of those who are actually opposed to their own government used this case to set an example that the Storting has power, that we do not accept that one should be so conservative in relation to security of supply that one should have over 50 pst. the risk of becoming black before the State can act. Because that's what this is all about. This proposal is not just about price, although price is an important part. It is about showing an understanding, and actually a sympathy – a declaration of solidarity, I should have said so that red-green politicians should understand it – a declaration of solidarity towards power customers in central Norway that we understand that the sky-high power prices are a problem for many. Many manage well, those who have a lot of money, even though it is uncomfortable to pay 95 cents/kWt at an average price, like one did in Trondheim yesterday. But those who don't have money also don't have alternatives, which, as many people here are talking about, operate with a large-scale one-way. People who can't afford to pay the next month's electricity bill don't have 150,000 kroner to add waterborne heat to their house. We're going to take that over. But in addition to the price, this is about how offensive we are going to be in order to ensure that the security of power supply is ensured. For me, it's totally irrelevant to start talking about that there's going to be a fifty-fifty chance that the system collapses tomorrow, with the criteria that Statnet has in practice to rule after today. It's not Statnett, as many people here hide behind, who sit and make these assessments. State networks relate to the legislation they have received from a government. That legislation is far too conservative. We should not allow such a slow phase-in of reserve capacity as the state controls 100 pst. And when we also know that the variable cost of operating these is probably about 50 centimeters/kWt, it doesn't help to pick up the power price either. It's part of bringing down the power price, they're going to be put to work. So, both for security of supply and for price reasons, this proposal should be adopted today. It's good for the red-green parties to be allowed to break out of the flock.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e474	In the debate today, the Red-Green parties have outlined the need for a long-term solution. Nobody disagrees, because we need to put in place tools that make us more robust for the future. The problem is that we per. Today, both legs are in trouble. The situation is that for every day that goes without there being capacity in the network, and without there being capacity for production in central Norway, we are already losing relatively low warehouse fillings further down. For every day that goes, the probability that in the future there will be flow rationing in the area increases. For every day that goes, the risk gets bigger and bigger so you can get a disconnect. For every day that goes, the electricity bill for the inhabitants of Middle Norway is increasing. The owner – 100 pst. owner – of Statnett, is the State itself. If you want to do something with the regulation, it's the government. The regulation is made by the Government, may be amended and repealed by the Government. It's time to get your head out of the sand and get out to see how reality is out there, and take action that helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2140]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e502	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e518	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e534	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e550	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e557	I am delighted to be the spokesperson for this case of simplification for business. It's not the first time we've discussed this here in Stortinget. There was a similar Document No. 8 proposals not that long ago. But there are important problem settings that we always have to work with. Simplification is about making regulation and public tasks as effective as possible without over-costing the purpose. In 2008, the Government presented the plan Time for innovation and production, with 120 measures to reduce administrative costs for enterprises. The biggest single measure was Altinn. For business, good access to information on public schemes, legislation and information requirements is very important to ensure good and efficient operation. In the long term, the business community shall adhere to only one web portal for all reporting and communication with the management. It will make the reporting work less labor-intensive, which frees time for production and value creation. On 5 February this year, the Government presented a follow-up to the Action Plan Time for Innovation and Production. The report summarises the results of the update on the use of resources by industry and presents the status of simplification measures from the action plan. The government shall continue to work to reduce the administrative resource use of enterprises. In the Soria Moria statement, we're very clear. We have said that we should review the share and accounting laws with a view to simplification, especially for the smallest enterprises. Rambøll has also provided a report, Business administrative cost development, 2006-2009 update, which shows that there have been reductions in forms and reporting and reductions in administrative costs. The report shows that the cost reduction has come especially for micro-enterprises, which I think is very good, as these companies often do not have access to the same administrative resources as large enterprises. The report also highlights the positive work and bet on Altin, which is still a focus of this government. It is actually intended by a large sum in the budget in 2010 as well. However, it is important that every time the Government sets new requirements for business, a special assessment of both the benefits and costs of new rules and information requirements should be made. It is important that it is assessed every time whether it is necessary to set the same requirement for SMEs as for larger companies. In the Innovation Communication, the government announced the creation of its own strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises – a work in progress. There's a strategic advice that's going to input into the further work, and we'll get to pick up a case soon. I have started the company myself, and I have seen all the requirements being met. Therefore, I am very happy on behalf of all those who run businesses, because the government takes this seriously. It has actually been smaller and simpler reporting. After the red-green government took over in 2005, and up to now the burden of form reporting has been reduced by over 1,100 annual works. There are many governments that have had focus on and big goals of bringing the form field to life. When Sponheim was Minister of Industry, he went very high on the track with this, but when he left as Minister of Industry, there were actually more forms than when he started. We are certain that simplification is important, so that businesses can have more time for innovation and production. The letter from the Ministry of Finance stresses that the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the Customs Authority will continue to focus on user orientation, efficiency and simplification. The government has done a lot of work, and it is still going to have a very strong focus on this work, because simplification is a continuous work. I would like to add the matter to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e578	I would already like to be allowed, at the outset, to address the suggestions we have in the vote, so that it is done. Furthermore, I would also like to inform you that if, contrary to the assumption, our proposals were to fall, we will vote in favour of the proposal of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, which is also included in the vote, so that it is noted. In this case, the Progress Party has made 21 concrete proposals – 21 concrete proposals in several areas that could make everyday life easier for Enterprise Norway, 21 concrete proposals that could make time use of businesses more efficient, so that one can collect resources and use his working capacity to create values, instead of spending a very long time on completing forms, certificates, reports, etc. I am very excited to hear what the Minister of Finance is going to say in his speech today – now represented by the new Prime Minister, the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is at least present in the Chamber. I am very excited that he will present the letter of reply given to the Committee on Questions on the 21 proposals – a seven-page letter. It's going to be exciting to hear an investigation about this, but we can come back to that in a little while. The proposals underpinning this treatment have been developed in cooperation with the Association of Norway’s Authorised Accounting Directors, the NHO and several others. These are proposals that have been requested, these are proposals where Business Norway wants to make changes so that they can spend their time on business rather than on reporting activities. However, the letter of reply given by the Ministry of Finance on these 21 proposals is of the utmost importance because it has first been concluded – at least not one of these proposals should be mentioned positively and could give the opportunity to obtain a majority of the red-green ones. The defence writer of the current policy should be looked for a long time! There are seven sides to the defence letter as to why you don't want to make any changes, despite the fact that business is shouting for change. It is also clear that the financial committee is currently very busy. Because if you read the comments from the government parties in the vote, you refer almost only to the letter from the finance minister. I actually thought that in this house you also had the opportunity and the right to have your own opinions on these matters. It's in this house that you adopt laws and regulations, it's this house that's the granting authority, but it's obvious that you've confused a little bit of the granting, legislative and not least the executive authority. The majority write the following in the setting on page 3: ‘The majority consider the Action Plan ‘Time for Innovation and Production’ as presented by the Government in August 2008. The plan contained more than 120 measures to reduce the administrative costs of enterprises. The majority think this is a powerful expression of the willingness to improve the business environment. Yeah, I'm incredibly excited to hear how far you've come with these 120 measures, I'm incredibly excited to hear the timing of these 120 measures, because business doesn't see anything about them. The business community feels that this is an incredible amount of talk, but very little action. As members of the Business Committee, we receive a number of contacts with proposals for improvements and simplifications regarding the time spent in enterprises. And there's one thing left in all of these enquiries: Let's use our time for value creation, let's use the capacity we have, to become good taxpayers to the state! Valuation is the means by which the state receives its income. But I sometimes get the impression that you want to solve some employment problems in society by getting more people to fill out forms. This is going backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e602	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the proposals he has referred to. The President may otherwise state that the absence of the Minister of Finance from the debate is due to a necessary meeting of the King of State Councils, and it is considered to be of constitutional importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e607	On behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I take up the minority proposal in the position of the Financial Committee. This is primarily to commend those in the Progress Party who have promoted the proposals. There is no doubt that in the Right there is a significant irritation, a great impatience, in relation to reducing the administrative costs of the Norwegian industry, which unfortunately has not evolved as much as one could believe as the Børge Brende and the Bondevik II government were responsible for this and as they had clear targets of 25 p.m. reduction by 2012, I think it was. This government has gone away from having a percentage target, and therefore there is only a kind of common let scour policy about the goal of this. I suspect that a majority, or very many of the red-green politicians, are not burning to reduce bureaucracy. I suspect a lot of them to actually contribute to increasing bureaucracy, because you have a general distrust of a lot of the private business, and you have great mistrust of the entrepreneurs. Logically, this will increase reporting requirements in order to avoid what is believed to be harmful to society in other areas. This makes the government not ongoing enough in terms of simplification. This means that the government and the big politicians are not on the move in terms of the fight for simplification, simply because there are other areas for which they are more concerned, and so you let it go. Looking at the Rambøll report that the Government has now presented, it shows that the administrative costs for business have fallen by half a percent in recent years. There are actually things that suggest that to find a reduction of half a percent, things have been taken out of the entire calculation basis -- there are some who claim -- to achieve a reduction in this way. If several elements were included, the increase reported by the business community to the Stortinget and to the departments that they experience in their everyday lives would have been achieved. The right has its own simplification committee that works to make everyday life easier for small businesses, for larger businesses and for individuals. We have more ambitions than the Minister of Finance puts up, and to that extent the Minister of Industry, who has a lot to do with this. Nesvik quotes parts of the majority's position in the committee. If you go to about where he ended, the majority, in my opinion, reveals a limitless system loyalty and a limitless trust in the states: ‘The majority also refer to the letter from the Ministry of Finance, where it is emphasised that the Ministry of Finance, including the Skatetaten and the Tollvesen, is continuously striving to focus on user orientation’. In other words, relax, this'll take care of, the department's working day and night to make it easier. Me and the Right believe that much of the simplification processes come from business itself. Some of the proposals made by the Progress Party, on which there is a cross-political agreement, on which the user organisations have come up and re-entered, are rejected – one after the other – from the Department. So you'd like to see a little bit different goals than the rest of us. The government’s imposition on private business is estimated at over 50 billion kroner. That is a considerable amount of money. A 10 pst. reducing it would have released 5 billion kroner, which private companies could have spent on completely different things. The reason for right-wing voting against the proposals of the Progress Party is that they come a little bit piece by piece and split. We believe that it is in place to make a completely new message about this. The proposal that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have promoted as a minority proposal, which the Progress Party supports subsidiaryly today, shows that we want the Government to be given time, at the latest in the context of the State budget in 2011. That should be the goal of the Government. Guess is new as state council. Let's hope that he also has time to modernise, and not just jump around on meetings to listen to, without doing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e629	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e637	I mainly agree with Mr Eldegard's remarks, but I have some general comments. It is true that simplifications in bureaucratic rules have been on the agenda for most governments, but most of the time it has been with the slogans, because it has been in a way to fight against the flow of time. But this government has actually done more than most. They have set offensive targets of 24 hours opening time in general government using e.g.: new technology. Altin is a good example of this. Important work has been done and offensive public sector targets have been set by e-commerce, open standards, electronic dialogue with employers, etc. In my view, it is an enormous potential for simplification and increased transparency through the use of new technologies – a simplification that can facilitate the work of business, and it is a goal for all of us, for the citizens, such as the environment. children’s parents applying for children’s playground online and, of course, for the public in the bureaucratic handling of cases. For me, having a big debate on individual forms and detailed individual proposals is a bit funny. I believe that this is going to be very detailed – it will be a procedure from the Chair. But I really just want to say to the Government, "Keep up the good work" in terms of simplifications using computer technology. At the same time, I might share a concern, and it's related to the New Public Management thinking of the public. It is important that the potential for simplification in new technologies is not taken into account in systems where mistrust and control lead to increased red tape. If we look at it a little bit big, it was like this once that a builder drew and built the house. Work effort and costs were related to the construction. And then it became more complicated. We got the architect as a profession, and more resources were put into planning. It is this development that has progressed, so that gradually the building itself has been subordinated, and the planning and permits, etc. is what might take the most resources. Of course, it's because society has become more complicated, and we need to take more into account. We can't dream back to an earlier stage where a man cleared, and built his own house without asking anyone. But we can simplify the processes, first of all, in my opinion, using new technology. The government is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e656	The proposal on simplifications in reporting, forms and legislation for business from the Progress Party is an important theme and an important proposal. The government parties believe that it is both important and forward-looking to work for a good framework for business in Norway, and therefore it is also essential and important to take account of business input and learn from relevant and successful reforms, including in our neighbouring countries. The purpose of reporting, regulation and business forms is to contribute to the enforcement of laws, regulations and administrative provisions. In principle, there is no limit to the scope and detail of such reporting, forms and legislation. I point out that many business operators perceive that there is today a self-production of new requirements where the benefits are not proportional to the costs. In order to strengthen confidence in the necessary follow-up of business activities by the authorities, the Authority must keep a continuous focus on this. I would like to say that the committee refers to is simple and well-worked legislation, which is the most reasonable and effective. However, this well-thought-out and simple legislation is also the legislation that requires the greatest overall overview and thorough review, not least through work with understanding of the practical working and business life. The government has presented the Action Plan Time for Innovation and Production, and what is leading from the government parties in this further work, is a significant simplification within the understanding in which I have now tried to sketch out some elements. The tax haven and customs tariff must have a continuous focus on user orientation, efficiency and simplification. In practice, this means that reporting, form and legislation, which are based on what is commonly known as having fun, is cut off, as well as businesses with delimited economic activity, are given a strongly simplified regulatory framework in which sampling becomes a more important tool to check whether the activity is operated in accordance with Norwegian law. With regard to the concrete proposals, the parties to the Government refer to the processes already under way and to this debate. It is said from the Progress Party that there is a defence letter from the government parties that nothing should happen. It is said to be completely wrong. However, legislation is necessary. It is necessary to have a regulatory framework to ensure fair competition and to ensure a correction of the market, objectives which, for the Progress Party, are very little present and which therefore make them on a completely different footing. When Kambe from the Right also says that one suspects the red-greens in order not to care about reducing bureaucracy and not enough is ongoing, I have to say, well, based on what has been said here in the debate, there is no big difference in the momentum that is relative to simplifying it. But there is also a situation where what has been done in the past has given weak results from the intention expressed here by the representative Kambe. Finally, in the view of the Centre Party, the challenge is to attract more people with experience and understanding of practical work and business in this simplification work. Thus, a challenge from the practical reality is seen, which provides a basis for getting legislation that is simpler and more understandable, and thus also has greater excitement among those who are going to do and pay a lot of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e677	I can basically join much of what the representative Lundteg said here. I think that's actually pretty cross-political. I think we should also recognise that the opposition that is always in place seems to be a little too slow when it comes to simplification of legislation, and may see that there are sometimes press groups, insofar as those who administer this legislation, who help us get further legislation, instead of simplifying it. I think that's something in what Jan P. Syse said in a different context, that we're opposed to the sum of everything we're for. It is a good thing that when you see special interests and special areas being treated, there may be a lot of good reasons why you need to strengthen the regulation, and politicians often also help to ask for more rules to prevent some isolated case. Then the sum of the inefficiencies, and the costs are far higher than the benefits of that kind of regulatory design. So I think in essence we agree on this, and I want the sitting government to be happy with any simplification that might come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e687	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the review, but I have to correct it on one point: when Lars Sponheim left, it was the first time in history that there was a measurable decline in the form field. A short time ago, it was found that industry’s costs related to form fields and compliance with legislation were only reduced by 0.5 pst. in the last three years, as the representative Mr Kambe also said. This despite promises of a strong simplification. While countries around us have set ambitious targets for reducing business costs related to reporting as a result of rules and form loads, the Government is reluctant. A good example is the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Sylvia Brustad, who, on 16 June 2009, sent out a press release, promising that a sample would be set up to look at how the simplification of the Norwegian legislation could be implemented, among others. input from the Auditor’s Association, work in the EU and other countries would provide a background for the work of the sample. Now 262 days have passed since Brustad's press release, and nothing has happened. There is neither a selection nor a clear mandate. Norwegian business spends NOK 54 billion on the reporting of rules and form loads. Enterprises with fewer than five employees are charged nearly DKK 20 billion each year in the cost of reporting public forms and following up legislation. I have previously invited Minister of Industry Trond Giske to both figure out a concrete target for reducing the burden on the form and say when we can expect the promises of the former Council of State Brustad to be fulfilled, without any response. Now I challenge the Minister of Finance at the same time: when can we expect a concrete target for the reduction of the form load? The left will make it easy to start, operate and own business in Norway. The aim must be to reduce administrative costs by at least 25 pst. by 2012. Complicated laws and regulations and a comprehensive form field are in some cases a major problem, especially for small enterprises and individual enterprises. In most areas, they have to deal with the same laws and regulations and respond to the same tasks as larger enterprises, and they spend relatively more of their time in this work than large businesses. It removes the focus and resources from the value creation of enterprises. A large-scale simplification and coordination of laws, regulations, reports and controls, adapted to the everyday lives of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, must therefore be initiated. In particular, the following measures must be included in such a review: New or changed requirements must be subject to a dietary benefit assessment for management and business. The regulatory framework must not be changed unnecessarily frequently, and companies must be given sufficient time to adapt to new or amended legislation. All business-to-public reporting must be possible through the same channel and the same information must only be reported once. A single portal for electronic information from public to enterprises needs to be developed. I want to commend the proposers for doing a thorough job of pointing out a number of unnecessary information and reporting requirements, and a lot of illogical rules, among others. related to representation costs, quota and other. Several of the proposals could have been voted for in isolation, but we believe there is a need for a comprehensive review that is much more targeted and powerful than what we see in the government parties refer to in the setting we are discussing here. Finally, it is commendable that the Minister of Finance and the Government are involved in the costs of Norwegian business from an international competitive perspective. No later than one article in the newspaper on Wednesday, the Minister of Finance defends the front-line model so that we can get a wage increase in Norway that competitively exposed sectors can live with over time. However, it is a great paradox that the Government is so little concerned with simplifying and reducing the form load for the same companies, when we know that the costs are over 50 billion DKK per year and that most of the countries we compete with, among others. In most EU countries, there is a completely different focus on simplification and, as far as possible, concrete targets have been set to reduce the burden on business by 25 pst. within a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e717	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e720	I couldn't let the debate pass with just the obligatory submissions. I thought maybe the finance minister would also say something, because this topic I think is one of the topics that is most discussed outside, and that you get done least from this room. I believe that the representative from the Left was at the heart of the matter, with concrete objectives. There is a difference between the Børge Brende in its plan ‘Simplifying Norway 2005-2009’ and the one presented by Sylvia Brustad. When Børge Burnde set the target 25 pst. reduction, it could be measured up to 2012. So now we hear a case rapporteur who thinks it's going very well. It is documented that Rambøll has looked at this, and this shows something quite different than the department itself shows, namely an efficiency of 0.5 pst. in the course of three years, from 2006 to 2009. So it's going to cost 57 billion kroner. There are not insignificant costs associated with being able to create values in the future. Such a pace will make us reach the Børge Brende's goal in 150 years! It can't possibly be satisfied with the Storting. Here it's about trying to figure out something that can be done concretely, which can be measured, so that we can start talking about if we actually reach some goal. I think that's the heavenly difference between Børge Burnde's ambition and the ambition that the Government has today. And as long as I don't see a concreteization of those measures and a desire to present the measures to the Stortinget, so that we can actually discuss whether or not to do anything in the department, I'll take the signals as Nesvik said they were made in the Council of State's response. It's a study of how to find all the negative arguments and all the difficult aspects of all the actions, and then you don't do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e727	I just have a few brief comments. I think the representative Syversen had something reasonable here, that we have all good intentions, but then we don't get it all to – a little different according to who controls. But it also has something to do with rhetoric. When the red-greens took over in 2005, there was an attitude towards business that was very negative. And if you don't think rhetoric also creates politics or creates attitudes, I think you're very wrong. If you look at a business manager as a potential tax cheater instead of a value maker, and talk like that, you don't get a good relationship with business, and you don't think you want to make it easy for this business manager to create the jobs you went around in the election campaign and said you should get. It also applies to the tax system. The wealth tax, i.e. equity, is taken into the enterprise as working capital, takes it into the country and gives it to the nation of Norway as working capital for some others who are going to do something even more than what it has already done in the enterprise in which it was. So when you talk that way and have policies like that, you create attitudes in business and in the practical policies you have to conduct in the department and government. This does not create values, but it creates confrontation between business and the political actors. I also understand the need to sell a policy and a rhetoric outside to win votes in a election. It probably needs all the parties, but when you get to the government offices, it's important to create a dialogue with the business community and look at the business community and the leaders as someone who plays the team to create values that we all depend on to distribute the benefits that business actually creates for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e738	I find it difficult to leave the post of the representative of the Progress Party to the last article in the discussion when he says that this government has a negative attitude towards business. What does that show in the Norwegian business community? What shows the functioning of the Norwegian industry in relation to how business can function in our neighbouring countries? Is it not precisely the way in which business operates that shows a significantly better development and situation than what we can reasonably compare ourselves to? It's a fundamental misappropriation. In many contexts, the Progress Party is careful to point out that a person must perceive what is going on – in order to use a common red-green language. What's going on out there? That's not consistent with that. I would have been very happy if you had more of a discussion here in Stortinget about what we want with business in the future. Where are we going to bet, what are we going to do with the different central industries that are going to be key industries in the business world that are needed to secure incomes and welfare values in the future, what are we going to do with the woodworking industry, what are we going to do with the fisheries sector, what are we going to do with our electro-metallurgical industry – the same way that someone in the 1990s discussed what we wanted with our shipping, that is, put the big framework conditions for business, so that one can have predictable framework conditions and see where this ends, given to the political parties that have decisive authority to present the framework conditions. We're going to take the discussion about business, but to say that the government has a negative attitude to business is, of course, fundamentally wrong. It's just to look around how it works with us versus in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e745	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e761	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e768	Tax lists create debate. That's how long it's been. There are many important aspects of conflicting interests, including privacy, privacy and the need for social transparency and control, which need to be taken into account. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the Committee for its factual and good consideration. Those who read the setting will see that there is a cross-political concern about, among other things, Commercialisation and the development of crime around the tax lists, but it is fraught with what kind of solutions and how quickly action needs to be taken. There are long traditions of transparency about tax lists in Norway. Originally, this had a rational and cost-effective justification. There was also a check that the tax lists were ‘outsourced’ to the tax haven’s office. However, new media and, in particular, the Internet have revolutionised the availability of tax lists. From being a local openness, one has ended up in a situation where the Internet makes Norwegian tax and income ratios open, regardless of where one is in the world. It's about extreme transparency that's very problematic about privacy, and that's naively open to those who might be interested in using it for criminal activity. The information can be linked to other databases so that most of the screening and sorting of victims can be made invisible online. I will largely let the other parties explain their views and focus on the Right's vision and solutions below. We don't quite understand why the government parties can't be more concrete once they've moved to a point where they have the same concerns as us in many ways. They should be able to say b once they figure out that they can say a. The right is concerned with openness. We believe it is important that the public should be able to check the functioning of the tax system according to their intention. But this debate can be both better and more informative through anonymous figures that are searchable on a wide range of criteria. Controlling distribution effects and other aspects of the tax system is improved by not being personified. However, the right-hand view of the trends in criminal settings and the fact that reports are obtained from the schoolyard where students rank parental income is very worrying. We believe that a lot of the challenges around tax lists, crime and bullying in school will be solved by introducing similar rules for credit information. The applicant will then be notified of the search and be able to identify the applicant. For the media and others who search with a concrete and legitimate intention, this will hardly be an obstacle, but it will dampen curiosity, neighboring search and crime. I note that the government parties want the same thing, but they are unable to specify what they want, and they are unable to say that it is urgent either. It must be allowed to say that I believe the Minister of Finance, when he comes back to the Storting on this matter, will land on one of the same things that the Right has proposed. He probably doesn't do that until the 2009 equations are published publicly and spread freely around the world. They will create room for many discussions, much bullying and be an eldorado for criminals. It's a shame we have to experience something before something is done. But I hope that the government also believes what they read. They're going to see and read that many of the people who build the country and who provide jobs and lives in Norwegian towns pay more taxes than they earn. The results of Halvorsen’s cutting edge operation against Norwegian ownership will be blurred. The removal of the 80 p.m. rule and the stock discounts will give figures to show that there is a policy for Norwegian future value creation that is unsustainable. If the government parties just think what they're reading, the thinking time they've given themselves by not being specific about what they want in this setting can be of the good. Had it been up to the Right, we would have kept a reasonable, but more limited, transparency about the tax lists. We would have developed a system where anonymous figures are the basis for the tax debate instead of the person-fixed debate we have today. Then we could both raise the level of debate and limit the negative aspects of today's system. I hope the Minister of Finance will deal with this quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e783	Would the representative also include proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e786	Yes, I'm taking up the Right suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e791	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e794	Then maybe I can start by saying that it's nice if the previous speaker listens carefully, so he knows the difference in the view of the government parties and what the Right has suggested. The tax system shall ensure income for the community and contribute to fair distribution. Tax is the main fund for financing the welfare state, and the automatic stabilisation of the tax system is strongest if the tax bases correspond well to real values and thus capture changes in consumption, income and profits. Fair distribution considerations are achieved by taxing income and wealth to persons in a progressive way, so that those with the most contribute the most. If we're to make sure that we achieve these goals, we need transparency about how the tax system works out for each of us. It is part of the open democratic society that we have a clear understanding of how resources are distributed in society, and the burden on the individual. A break-up of the tax system requires that the population can be confident that there is an actual burden-sharing, as provided for by the authorities. The easiest way to ensure this is to publish the tax lists. This allows individuals to go in and see that it's true, but not least it also makes it possible for a critical press to conduct an investigation, thus creating a good debate that actually allows people to pay most of their share of the community, even though perhaps not everyone does it with pleasure. Secrets of the result of the equation may provide the basis for speculations about the work of equations in general and on the determination of the equation of individuals or groups of taxpayers. This would be unfortunate in relation to a general understanding of the burden-sharing through the tax system, thus reducing its digestion. Occasionally, there are also questions about the publication of the tax lists in contravention of our obligations under international law. The existence of such a dispute has not been established. These are the good arguments, which mean that the government parties will continue to publish the tax lists in the future. When this is said, there is still reason to dwell on some issues related to this matter. New technologies are often followed up with new ideas on how to use them. We've seen in recent years a development in the use of the tax lists. It has, for example, made offers of different nature where you can purchase specific information from the tax lists, you can get information on tax matters about all the ones you have stored the number on your own mobile phone via SMS services on your phone. This is to the extent that you can collect information yourself through the tax lists, but it will require considerable time and effort for most of us. Another option is to order an application on Facebook, which allows you to automatically get tax information about all your Facebook friends. A third variant is that you can apply to individuals via SMS services, and then information ticks on your phone. Common to this type of offer is that there are commercial operators who make money to sell information from the public tax lists. This, of course, is not an intended effect of the publication. Another development we have seen is the compilation of information from the tax lists together with other available information. Here you can mention the number of newspapers plotting information in different variants, for example. where the richest of a region live, together with digital maps. This is based on postal codes, or more specific roads and addresses. This can create a challenge in relation to some more targeted crime – not to have more burglaries, but to have a tool that criminals can use. The sum of technological developments and their re-use can thus exert an unintended pressure on privacy. This is the background to the majority’s view that the Ministry of Finance should consider the possibility of limiting the unintended effects of the publication of the tax lists, both in relation to commercialisation and the potential effects of crime. Finally, I would like to make a mistake in the majority comment. It is clear that the undersigned was a bit quick with the proofreading. This refers to the sentence which reads as follows: ‘The majority therefore consider that this suggests that restrictions should be considered on how the press can access the information contained in the tax lists.’ The sentence shall be replaced by the following: ‘In view of this, the majority considers that restrictions should be considered on the way in which the information contained in the tax lists is disclosed.’;» Finally, on behalf of the majority, I would like to recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e837	The publication of the tax lists has gradually evolved into public incitement to social pornography — a practice that appeals to what most of us are least proud of, namely binoculars. The tax lists are really like the magazine See and Listen, which almost no one will admit that they are buying, but which nevertheless have high circulation rates. Today’s online media world offers absolutely all conceivable and unimaginable variants and angles of people’s taxable income and wealth. I was a little surprised this morning when I turned on the news and heard my financial committee colleague Breen, who was very surprised at what he found when he applied for the tax lists. To that it is worth noting that we have had this matter for consideration in the committee for five months – five months – and we have had a hearing on it, and if there was something he did not know, as the tax lists carried, it was good that he found it out this morning, at least. But I think it was legally late to find out. Anyway, we can find the top ten or the bottom ten of all variants and categories. The only category I haven't been able to find is the ten best paid journalists. I have searched and searched and cannot find it anywhere. It's probably just a fancy coincidence, if it's not a coincidence! The government parties, as well as the Christian People's Party, argue in this case that «the publication of the tax lists is important to strengthen the critical debate on fiscal matters». It sounds great and nice! Then, of course, the question arises as to what debate they are looking for and where this debate is conducted. Is this debate going on in the media? Is it in the Storting? I've been in the Financial Committee for five years – I can't remember a single debate related to the tax lists and the tax system, based on the tax lists. Is it in the Equation Offices this debate is going on? Is it around the kitchen tables? And how many requests for errors in the tax system is there actually the tax rate received – and how much more tax is there that these errors generate? Why is it that Norway is the only country in the world that needs to have tax lists published in order to have such a critical debate and open the door to everyone? Or are there perhaps not critical tax debates in other countries? But I record that the same four parties are very cautious in their comments, because it says it can ‘contribute positively to social control’. But they don't know. Lack of publication ‘can provide a basis for speculation’. But they don't know. The press ‘may contribute to critical debate’. But they can't prove it. The publication of tax lists is, in principle, crazy, because it violates the fundamental privacy of individuals. And at the same time, it's crazy because it has several negative practical consequences. It is the principle which is the serious thing and which should be discussed more. But the practical consequences are, of course, also negative. It is unethical that the State may use forced information provided by its inhabitants for publication without the same consent of its inhabitants. It is therefore punishable not to report salary and wealth-related matters, but because of the wording of Equation § 8-8, the State reserves the right to redistribute this sensitive personal information to general pleasure. One of the arguments is that publication can reveal tax fraud, and during the hearing reference was made to the hydroelectric scandal in Rome. So the argument was that publishing the tax lists gives the inhabitants and the media the opportunity to reveal tax fraud through printers – an indication. There is nothing fundamentally different if the government publishes an overview of how much each citizen receives from public benefits. Both parts are equally unethical and unacceptable, but it is only in the latter case that one refers to privacy, and this despite the fact that the exact same arguments could be used, as: The ten largest social security recipients. In this way, most live without fixed income. These lose the state most of the money. – If such information became widely known, neighbours and media could report it to the authorities if a person was listed as a social security recipient, but was taken on a fresh basis when he stepped out and went to work. We don't want it like that! Then we have the practical objections: the tax lists contain a number of errors. They are not final and taxpayers have not been able to provide any corrective information. Children are the most active users of the Internet, and the publication of tax lists makes some children bullying victims in school and leisure. The government parties believe that the curiosity of people must go ahead of consideration for the bullying of some children – only a few people are being bullied! Furthermore, the police have confirmed that the publication of the tax lists has acted as a look-up for criminals, with extortion and burglary – at the latest last year when a number of people received blackmail claims, which resulted in the protection of children whose parents were threatened at school. So it's that more and more people are exposed to ID thefts. Today, there are 40,000 Norwegians who have taken insurance against this, so the tax lists are in a way a further reason to insure themselves against ID thefts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e867	The President shall assume that the representative shall make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e870	I am in favour of this proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to state that we subsidly support the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e878	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e881	There is tradition back to the 1800s for the publication of tax lists in Norway. The reason, of course, is that there is a close link between money and power, and such a connection should be public. Originally it was that society's supporters wanted publicity about having money, and proudly contributed taxes to the state. So now it's rather the opposite – you don't want to see that you have a lot of money, and maybe how much tax you contribute. The representative Tybring-Gjedde called for a debate based on the tax lists. In the election campaign this year, the Right Party and the Advance Party proposed to remove the property tax. The Socialist Left then showed that it would mean that 27 of the country's 34 billionaires would be zero taxpayers. It was material they could provide, precisely because the tax lists were public. Such a discussion could not have been possible if we had not had access to the tax lists. It was, in my opinion, an important debate on the relationship of power in Norway. For the Socialist Left Party, it is important that the tax lists are public, and that they are public all year long – not just a short period, as the Government of Bondevik introduced – and that it is possible to apply to both named individuals and groups, such as, for example: The 100 richest. We don't need to combine it with a professional title, which means that Tybring-Gjedde doesn't know how much the 100 best paid journalists have. A term such as ‘zero-taxor’ would probably not have existed if we had not had public tax lists and the debate as a result. Publicity is important to give legitimacy to the tax system. If I think I pay too much tax, I have to be able to check what others pay, and possibly get upset if I think that others who earn more than me pay too little – or, like Gundersen, get upset because the rich pay too much tax. Therefore, it is important that the tax lists continue to be published — for critical journalists and for an informed public. The objection is that publication contributes to bullying. It's hard for me to take it seriously. First of all, there is little evidence of this. But anyway, I don't think the solution is in the tax lists. We had a campaign like this about "sparking a red hair", which there was a lot of bullying associated with in some schools. It was Facebook group about kicking a red hair. The solution was not that redheads should dye their hair, but the solution was to take a bullying culture seriously. And so it has to be if it's like this that bullying is going on based on the tax lists. We also have relatively little evidence that the tax lists are used for crime. I think that an equally effective method then is to take a trip to the west edge's stray. But I do not reject it and therefore believe it is important that the Ministry of Finance looks into this. Changes have been made so that the date and address of birth are no longer given in the tax lists. However, the representative Thomas Breen also explained the connection to the Cartwork, etc., which I see can well be limited. One aspect of publication is, of course, that it also stimulates binocular mentality. Nevertheless, it is important for me to defend the free access of the public, but in my opinion we do not need any commercial products related to the tax lists. That is why the majority also asks the Ministry of Finance to take a closer look at this. Privacy is important for SV, but it must therefore be balanced against the opportunities for transparency in an important area, namely the area of power and justice in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e902	The President finds reason to state that she has not intended to change hair color for so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e905	Yes, you can say that when you have good hair! The discussion of prohibiting the publication of tax lists is a repetition, and from the point of view of the Progress Party, it is said to be so strongly that it violates the privacy of individuals. Yes, it does show the attitude of the watch-frp, but at least it does not show the Urnork attitude. For the Urnorn attitude is that one should have a jealous relationship, and it is as it says in the poem «Millom Bakkar and Berg out with the Sea»: «Between jammings preferably I am satisfied.» So publishing tax lists is a Norwegian tradition, and it's an old Norwegian tradition that goes back further than 1800. It goes back to the Norwegian law of Christian IV of 1604, where it says that on the thing it is to be given «real and detailed mandate who has the treasure and how much each garden has published». What the government parties, with the Central Party, are doing here, is in the best of Norwegian tradition, to ensure a change of words about the tax system we have, and to ensure the critical debate, and it is a pleasure that the Central Party Christian People's Party is involved and associated with the government parties in the vote today. It helps to ensure the open debate on how to move forward in developing our tradition and fulfilling its role, in order to finance public activities in a good way, how much consideration is given to. With regard to the Internet publication of the tax lists, as many have said, it is not desirable for actors to be able to sell information from the tax lists in order to make money on it. It is then a challenge that one has to look at, and therefore we are pleased that there is now a consensus that one should consider limitations on how information contained in the tax lists can be disseminated. It's taking away the negatives that might arise from, for example, the negatives. new technologies, while maintaining the primacy of tax disclosure. It's a great continuation of a tradition, which has its anchoring all the way back to 1604.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e918	I would also think it was a pity if the president were to change one of his trademarks. It had become a big surprise. The debate really points to the different considerations behind point 1 of publication, and point 2 of privacy. It's almost like you're tempted to say that you agree with it at any time the latter talk, because it's about which bowl you put the arguments in, and which bowl should weigh the heavier at last. I don't think there's any doubt that many of us also in the Christian People's Party are looking at developments in terms of publication, with concern. When dealing with this matter, you go in and see how especially the online newspapers use these information. I have to say that here there are many more reasons behind the use of this by the online newspapers than to encourage a critical debate on the tax system. It's quite clear, and that's where I'll give the representative Tybring-Gjedde justice. That's why we've also asked from the Christian People's Party for an overall review of this, because I think it actually deserves a case up to the Stortinget, where this is assessed collectively, and where you weigh the different arguments and hopefully come up with a balanced solution. But from the Christian People's Party I would say that when the matter comes from the Government, we expect it to lead to tightening up today's practice. If the government doesn't come along with that, we from the Christian People's Party are prepared to go on proposals that will lead to a tightening up, because I think it's gone way too far as it's now developing not only on the net newspapers, but also on their services that they offer in addition to it, where they also make a lot of money for people to know about this via mobile phone, etc. It is well and good to have the Urnoric attitudes in the back of the mind, but sometimes they also have to be tested against recent phenomena. That's basically what I hope the Ministry of Finance will do now. In the hearing, there was some uncertainty about this, but if you can now find out that this is being used actively in criminal activities, it strongly argues that there is a need for intrusion. We have then promoted our own proposal, which I mention with this. We also notify subsidiary support for the proposal that I expect the representative Tenden to raise on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e931	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e934	The publication of tax lists is a difficult matter because two important principles are viewed and opposed to each other: transparency and transparency with regard to privacy and privacy. Both parts are very important for the Left. Nevertheless, the left has traditionally chosen to support transparency in the publication of the tax lists. The importance of transparency, control, transparency and, in particular, the legitimacy of the entire tax system has outweighed the importance of privacy and privacy, as there has been an acceptable framework for transparency and transparency. However, following the changes made by the majority of the population, including the Left, in 2007, in the view of the Left, developments have gone in the wrong direction. The transparency of tax lists has become more and more a purely commercial entertainment industry, and new technologies, new technological solutions and new social media have led to a seemingly well-founded desire for increased transparency and transparency that, at least, the Left has not been able to see in 2007. The left has been at the forefront in the fight for privacy. It is time to follow this up by reviewing the law, to provide Norway’s citizens with the best possible control of their personal data and access to who uses the information. It's time to use the technology we have, for something positive, instead of making it easier to disseminate personal data and simplify monitoring. Therefore, the left considers that current practices with full transparency and free movement of tax lists need to be restricted. It must continue to be possible for anyone who wishes to have access to the information, but it may not be possible to commercialise the tax lists and develop business models based on personal data, inter alia. through mobile phone services and other related information from the tax lists, which have been visited by several people here today. I think that the majority in the setting becomes very passive when they write: ‘It is not desirable in itself for actors to be able to sell the information from the tax lists in order to make money on it.’ For the left, this is not desirable at all. It shall not be possible to make money on advertising or sales in connection with the tax lists. I would like to refer to the conclusion of the Council of Technology on the Stortinget in publication No. 24 from February of this year, where they write: ‘Internet publication of tax lists has led to their being used beyond the original intention of publication, for example in search and compilation of data. In addition, tax information appears in more and more channels, such as social media and mobile platforms. In total, this results in a change in the proportionality of where privacy is impaired. There is every reason to believe that this is a development that will only continue in the disfavor of privacy. It is therefore our view that it is time to assess whether the scheme should be in place and, where appropriate, in what form.» This is a description and concern left-hand parts. Therefore, the Left proposes that the tax lists become available only from public databases and/or websites as of the 2009 income year. In practice, this means that the only websites from which it is to be possible to find the information requested are on the Skatetaten pages. Such a restriction will not only meet the need for continued transparency and transparency, but will have a completely different focus on the privacy challenges that transparency and transparency bring, and which are described very well by the Technology Council. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e964	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e967	Some considerations are given at the end of this debate. There is, to a large extent, a connection between the debate we had on simplification and what we are now discussing. Much in the first debate was about using the electronic tool that is located there, and it is to some extent that has enabled this large distribution of tax lists through the network. Just to put it in a slightly larger context, last year the tax base received at the base of 5 million electronic forms. 85 pst. by operators using electronic self-declaration and 83 pst. also used electronic VAT returns. So there were 400,000 companies that had replaced paper with electronics on the reporting page. So there's a development going on, and that's some of what we're discussing in this context. It's a long way from looking at the tax lists in the back room at the colonial store on Stavsjö to going online and seeing them. However, as others have pointed out, there is a long tradition of publishing tax lists in Norway. It is part of the openness that is important in society, and discussion of income and taxation is an important part of the societal debate. Yet it is, and it has also emerged in the debate here, that one on the one hand has full publicity, and on the other hand there may be other social concerns and interests, as it is. is referred to in the letter to the Ministry of Justice of the Directorate of Police. So one has to sort of balance the need for transparency against protection against, for example. crime and the safety of individuals. What is happening now is going through this in the Ministry of Finance. We need a thorough review. To propose a ban on the publication of tax lists is at least, from my point of view, totally out of the question. But if we were to find out that there is a need for change, we would, of course, present it, so that it can work from the tax lists that are submitted to the harvest. But before we get there, we have a little way to go to the Ministry of Finance and make a political assessment of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e980	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e996	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1003	I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, want to take into account what the matter is about and focus on the majority's view. The case concerns proposals to strengthen the use of resources for the ethics work of the State pension fund – abroad, also known as SPU. The proposers point out in their reasoning that the Government and the Storting have high ambitions for the quality of financial management and the follow-up to the Ethical Guidelines of the Fund, that the Fund has increased significantly over time, both in size and in the number of markets and companies included in the Investment Universe, and that new investment opportunities will be introduced. Reference is made to ‘partly a critical searchlight on the ethical profile of the Fund’ in several recent cases and it is important that such cases receive a thorough and serious assessment based on the objectives and ambition of the Fund. The majority of the Committee perceives that the proposers consider that the Ethics Council is understaffed and that they doubt whether the Ethics Council has sufficient resources to carry out the task of the Council. At the outset, it is important to point out and highlight the broad political consensus on the management of the SPU, as the proposers do. In the treatment of St.meld. No 20 for 2008-2009 last year, there was a broad consensus on the Government's objective of SPU being the world's best managed fund, and that the management should achieve the highest possible financial return within moderate risk, so that future generations can also benefit from our savings capital, which requires management to aim for best practice internationally. The investments made by the fund are long-term in many of the world's companies, and the Government therefore places emphasis on contributing to good corporate governance and the safeguarding of the environment and social interests of these companies. In 2008, a comprehensive evaluation of the Ethical Guidelines for the SPU was carried out. The results of the evaluation were presented to Stortinget in St.meld. No 20. The main conclusion of this Communication was that the ethical guidelines are based on a solid foundation and have proved to be robust over time and that the main features of ownership exercise continue. Some amendments and adjustments were proposed and, as the Minister of Finance points out in his opinion on the proposal, several of them have already been or will be launched in a short time. This applies, inter alia, to:\t\t You can change the investment programme for environment research project on climate and financial markets Norway's Bank's new forecast documents The Ministry of Finance has become a member of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment The Ministry of Finance participates in the United Nations Global Compact Group of Experts on the conduct of companies in war and conflict areas, with the aim of providing guidance on good corporate practice and extending good investor practice in these situations. The majority of the Committee emphasises the Minister of Finance's opinion on the proposal, where, in addition to pointing out the follow-up to the new measures, he says that the resources of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Norway and the Ethics Council have been regularly strengthened since the ethical guidelines were introduced. As the fund increased investment, staffing has increased in the Secretariat and the Ethics Council has also increased the use of external consultants. It is also pointed out that the Ethics Council has so far been given increased appropriations and more places of employment in line with the Council's own wishes and that the Ministry of Finance will continue to provide the Ethics Council with the resources deemed necessary for the Council to carry out its work satisfactorily. I believe that this has given us a good overview and insight into the resource situation for the ethics work in the SPU and the manning policy and use of resources that the Ministry of Finance has invested in. The majority are satisfied that the Ministry of Finance will continue to monitor the staffing situation in the Ethics Council in the future to ensure that the Council has sufficient resources to continue to do a satisfactory job. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry of Finance has increased its participation in international initiatives for building best practices for responsible investment and supports the view that such cooperation initiatives may have greater potential for influencing individual companies, sectors and markets than a single investor alone and obvious economies of scale in this work. The Committee shares the view of the Minister of Finance that there will continue to be a need to develop both strategies and instruments in this area in the future, and looks forward to a thorough presentation of the efforts to promote responsible investments in the annual communication on the management of the SPU to spring. On this basis, the majority of the Committee does not have the basis for supporting the proposal and recommend that it be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1040	As we in the Progress Party have pointed out in our comments at committee reading, we believe that the practice of the ethical guidelines already exceeds the meaning of the original guidelines. In recent years, we have seen a gradual expansion of the concept, that new moral principles about what's wrong and what's unethical about owning shares are constantly being invented. No later than this winter, it was found that tobacco companies can no longer own shares, even if they sell fully legitimate products. So we in Norway now have a world's'moral police', where we know what's best – what's good morals, and what's bad morals. I have to remind you that the money we manage, i.e. the State pension fund – abroad, popularly called the oil fund, actually comes from one of the world's most polluting industries. Think of it that many years ago in Norway, when Norway was a poor country, we didn't get risk capital or any investors from abroad to extract oil and gas because they thought it was immoral and unethical, because it wasn't good for the environment. Or should we go even further back in time, the time when child labour was quite common and necessary in Norway: think about it when there were rich states or rich companies that would not invest in Norwegian companies because it was unethical. And they would only become investors when the children were fired, with the consequences that they had to have. Norway would never have accepted that other countries should define the ethics of our businesses on the basis of their understanding — at least not if the other countries had come any further in their prosperity and development. Being such a ‘moral policy’ is detrimental to the economic development of countries, while at the same time reducing the yield of the oil fund. If Norway wants to influence the world’s morals and ethics, this should be done by recognising international institutions — through the argumentation and building of consensus. I have registered that two or three days ago a press release was sent out from the Ministry of Finance saying that there were now two new guidelines for so-called responsible investment practices for the State pension fund – abroad. One was to use even more resources to put companies to observation before making final decisions on extractions or not. The other was a general exclusion of tobacco producers, which was announced a month ago. In other words, this is yet another strengthening of the work of ethics that the Christian People's Party is asking for in its proposal, which speaks for the fact that the proposal, which goes even further than current practice, does not need to be endorsed. When it comes to the decision that it is grossly unethical to have shares in tobacco companies, I react to it. It is a fully legal product, but this cannot make money from the State pension fund – abroad, i.e. the Norwegian people. But taking in billions of dollars from tobacco smoking in the form of taxes is obviously quite fine. So what's next? Norway should stay away from all companies such as: produce weapons? Will this apply only to foreign arms producers, or will reach the Minister of Finance and the other parties take the initiative that the State will no longer be a partner in, for example. Kongsberg Gruppe or Nammo? Is it more moral to make money on weapons than to make money on a beverage like tobacco? I have a list here on 43 pages of all the companies in the world in which we are partners. We are among others the joint owner of a company which is the largest producer of spirit, wine and beer in the world. I think there's someone in this room who thinks that alcohol is not good, and therefore unethical. Historically, someone in this room would have preferred that there should be even more regulation on this, and it has historically also been banned in Norway with alcohol, so maybe this will be next from the Ethics Council's moral police. Will it be immoral to invest in companies that are producers of unhealthy and sugary food and drink? What about manufacturers of polluting cars? Or what about listed brothels? It also exists, of course. Is that ethical? I cannot see that the Ethics Council has proposed a ban on this. Or what about investing in producers or distributors of sex films or erotic magazines or listed strip club chains? What about casinos, gambling companies or the entertainment industry in general? Or what about businesses that research animals? Is it morally right, more right than making money on drugs that snuff, cigarettes, and cigars? We in the Progress Party do not think Norway should condemn enterprises in other countries, especially countries that are trying to bring people out of poverty. In conclusion, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1062	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1065	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party, which has a real commitment to have an ethical code around this, which is what you have. I feel that the Storting is quite unanimous here, that when you have to invest, you have to have a frame. The right probably has a slightly more nuanced view of the purchase of different companies than the Christian People's Party has, in terms of what is meant by 'ethical' or 'euthical'. I don't want any polemics about it. The right has said that we want to be in the majority opinion on this matter. For the Right, it is more interesting to discuss the State pension fund – Foreign in the light of what is to come, in relation to the active administration or the passive administration. What Mr Rytman is referring to is probably a little out of line with what the Progress Party really thinks, because you should not buy shares in individual companies, where you would rather be betting on other markets. The right is very pleased that we have a fairly large and broad consensus on the State pension fund – abroad. The fact that we are going to decide to expand the number of employees working with the ethics of the Pension Fund seems to us to be a little simple, and therefore we are going for the position that exists and have no comments beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1072	SV was overlooked and ridiculed when we first suggested that we have ethical guidelines for the oil fund. It's safer with mathematics than ethics, said a non-named finance minister once in the 1990s. And a newspaper referred from a Question Time – where Øystein Djupedal raised the issue of ethical guidelines – in such a way: ‘I have a great deal of sympathy for the representative’s concern, says the Minister of Finance and scotches up on the President of the Grand Duchy. But it's been a lot of work," he says, and it's all difficult, he says, complicated." Of course, it's complicated to try to be ethical in a capitalist wolf world. But there were ethical guidelines, and it's very nice to see that with the exception of the Advance Party, all parties are now concerned about how we can strengthen the ethical work of the oil fund. There is no dispute as to whether we should have ethical guidelines. The oil fund today operates on the premises of capitalism. We invest in all the world's markets, and then we try to take social responsibility by withdrawing from companies that behave in a way that we think is ethically unsustainable. So, from this point of view, the ethical guidelines are a kind of code of minimum ethics. In addition, we sometimes use our ownership to enter and change companies. I believe that in the future there will also be a debate on how the entire oil fund can be used more actively to promote good development with investments for the benefit of developing countries and to achieve climate policy objectives. This is why, for example: important for the development and expansion of the environmental investment programme, because the representative Rytman has a point – we can't have extraction mechanisms for anything we don't like. But we can go the other way and invest in what we dissidently like. The fund is called the Staten pension fund – abroad, I prefer to call it the oil fund. It is because we must not believe that we can live in the future as interest-raters of income from the fund. It's basically just the work of each other we can live on. The oil fund is a accumulated rent from values that incidentally lay on our base, and we have to remember to manage these values not only on behalf of the entire Norwegian people, but actually on behalf of and for the benefit of the entire world's population. I am pleased with the Committee's comments: ‘These members point to the fact that the practice of the ethical guidelines already far exceeds the intention of the original guidelines. Norway should not in any way act as ‘moral police’ [[...]] If the Advance Party had also been satisfied with the work on ethics, I might have experienced it as a bit clumsy embrace and wondered if the whole work had become toothless. I think it's important all the time to work for new ethical management criteria and to tighten up the criteria. It is important to get clear political dividing lines, as when Rytman is upset that Norway says we won't make money on child labour. The Christian People's Party is concerned about whether the Ethics Council is understaffed, since the fund is growing so fast. It is important that the Ethics Council has the resources they need, but – as it says in the case – it is not only about the administration in Norway but also about the use of external consultants. The Ethics Council has increased, and the use of external consultants located in different parts of the world has increased even more, and that is very good. However, it is important to always have an eye on whether the Ethics Council has the necessary resources, and I believe that the Government has. There will also soon be a big message about the Pension Fund, where ethics is also a topic. I also welcome the public discussion that is ongoing on the work of the Ethics Council and on investments in individual companies. It is important that the ethics work is accompanied by the eyes of an archeology by a critical press and a critical opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1095	I would also like to commend the Christian People's Party for including this Document No. The 8th proposal. It is a hugely important issue in relation to the enormous challenges we face, how to manage the State pension fund – abroad, or the oil fund. I see this issue of ethics as part of our mixed economic tradition, in which, by decision of authority, we try to correct weak aspects of how market forces function and link ownership obligations, so that we get a social organization that, according to ability, should give better and safer relationships to people. It's in a tradition like this, and it's not surprising that the Progress Party uses very charged and negative words about that work. That's just the way it is when you have so much different understanding of the state's role in political work. That being said, it is very difficult to practice this – as many people have been involved in it. The pension fund, or the oil fund, has income requirements that must be seen in relation to the risks it presents. The fund must have a return on the ethical requirements and obligations it has. There we see that there's no fascination for what order you're going to do this, there's very demanding balances that you have to do. Clearly, both human rights and environmental issues are central. It is probably a gradual development and an attack on the most extreme cases, which are largely carried out in relation to the practice of the Ethics Council and the Pension Fund. The instruments are to withdraw from companies, sell themselves out. As a result, it has also been necessary to use ownership to try to change the company’s strategy and short-term operation. This is a laborious and demanding work for which it is important to have a continuous correction, so that one goes in a direction where the aim is to ensure safer conditions for people and nature. The question is then specific in Document No. The 8 proposal to strengthen the work on ethics. The central party, as stated in the vote, has confidence that the Ministry of Finance will ensure that the Council has sufficient resources and that the Council will be able to further develop the strategies and instruments needed to move in such a direction as I have now tried to provide some support. At the same time, this must be done in a cost-effective way. That is why it is important that the Ministry of Finance makes sure that it is also a cost-effective way to implement this work on ethics, so that there is a balance between what we use in this field and what we use in other areas, and what is required, i.e. for cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1106	Thanks to the President-in-Office and – I would like to say in essence – most of the contributions so far. With regard to Rytman's starting point, it's no big surprise that I might report a slight disagreement about it. In fact, I think there is reason to ask if the Progress Party at all wants ethical guidelines for the State pension fund. I would like to remind you that the then member of the Progress Party of the Financial Committee, which I believe is now the party leader and parliamentary leader, was actually among the proponents for ethical guidance. But there is a development, as I said, and it does in this case as well. There is also reason to commend, as a starting point I would say, the work done in the field of ethics and in the management of the State pension fund – abroad. I was last in the OECD a few weeks ago, and it is clear that this fund for many is a model in the international context, including in the field of ethical management. It is also an international development in emphasising the ethical dimension of administration. In fact, when you own a fund, you can also make sure that you invest where you want to invest, and you don't want to invest where you don't want to invest. Sometimes it seems as if you have been completely abandoned and just have to invest completely passively. Actually, it's not like that. On the basis of previous proposals from the Christian People's Party, where we include: in order to exclude tobacco producers from investment and to create a separate environmental investment programme, it is clear that we are very positive about the follow-up that first came through the Storing Communication, which was operationalised last week by the Ministry of Finance. So this is an ongoing work, and we think it's going in a positive direction. So we would probably want a further increase in ambition – and why? First of all, we're now increasing the share, that's almost 60 pst. by the fund which is going to invest in shares. It itself requires increased vigilance. Secondly, the fund increases every day. It'll be more to follow with for that reason. And thirdly, when the majority of the Storting – I think everyone was there, perhaps with the exception of the Advancement Party – joined the idea of entering into companies and trying to influence their behaviour before any withdrawal, it requires a further follow-up, when one is to exercise ownership actively. It seems to us that there must be an even greater pressure on the follow-up, both through the Ethics Council and in the overall management of the fund. I'll bring that up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1120	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1123	The notification of the activities of the Pension Fund will be submitted in three weeks. There will then be many opportunities to come back to a much broader and more comprehensive discussion of the activities of the Pension Fund. There will be an important discussion in the Storting, therefore some considerations now. The oil wealth we have is what we currently manage on behalf of the Norwegian population. It's a big mission, and it's a responsible mission. There are many considerations that need to be weighed, but there are two main considerations: one is to ensure long-term returns, so that both those who live today and those who come will take part in the wealth that this fund gives to Norway. Then we also see clearly that good financial returns over time also depend on sustainable development in the economy, in both the environmental, economic and social sense. We also need to ensure that the ethical values of the population are reflected in the way we manage this wealth. The pension fund is now within 8 000 companies worldwide. Because of both the weight and the long-term investment into the fund, it is clear that we have a responsibility and a self-interest in contributing to good corporate governance and care, both for environmental and social reasons. These are the reasons for trying to fill the role of the responsible investor in the best possible way. As the representative, Mr Syversen, referred to, on 1 March of this year, we presented the guidelines for responsible management in the future. It's a work that we put very much emphasis on. What we presented on 1 March is also based on the evaluation of ethical guidelines that we have done on the basis of documents dealt with by the Storting. So I just want to say that in terms of resources, we have strengthened our work both in the Ministry of Finance, in the Bank of Norway and in the Council of Ethics. I think we can tolerate a comparison with the vast majority of investors in that area in terms of the resources we spend on ethical issues, and the resources we spend on responsible management. But then there's a development, the fund gets bigger, the world gets more complicated. It will require a great deal of light on having good resources in the future. In conclusion, I would like to say that one of the most important tasks we have in a longer-term perspective – as I said before – is to contribute to the best practices for responsible investment that most investors in the world can agree on. That is why both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway participate in international initiatives, including the UN initiative for responsible investment, the so-called PRI, Principles for Responsible Investment. As I said, we're in no way done with this work, we're in the starting pit. Responsible investment practices are not just those of the State pension fund — abroad, they are an area in rapid international development, and we need to be willing to renew ourselves on that side in the years to come. However, as the representative Syversen also pointed out, there are many out there who look at the Staten pension fund – Foreign as a model and as a top-ranking fund for both long-term and responsible investments over time, and who contribute to the social responsibility of companies in a good and proper way. So it's probably not like Norway's kind of taken on the big tasks on behalf of the world community. Rather, we are part of international cooperation in this area and will increase in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1143	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1146	I can't help not commenting on this matter, because I've been doing it for four years, and I'm very, very happy about it. It reflects the gigantic inconsistencies in government policy in such an excellent way that it is worth a comment every single time. I can start with what goes on in the defence industry and components of nuclear weapons, where we have excluded all the major and very best technology companies in the world – Lockheed Martin, among others, which is the world's largest technology company. But at the same time, we are protected under Article 5, ‘no first use’ of nuclear weapons and NATO doctrine. Then, obviously, the same weapons are not completely unethical anyway. We have repurchase agreements where we force Lockheed Martin to cooperate with Kongsberg, of which the state owns half, and Nammo, of which the state has major interests. We force them to cooperate with Lockheed Martin, who is basically an unethical company that produces components of nuclear weapons. We're not sitting in a dark room saying that now we're going to produce some components of nuclear weapons, it's imposed by the U.S. authorities. It's just like the American ambassador said the time you excluded Lockheed Martin, that there's indirect criticism of the American authorities and American politics. There's probably someone who's satisfied with it, but that's actually what it is. In the case of child labour, there was a Norwegian researcher on the radio talking about child labour in Bangladesh, where they increased the age limit from 12 to 15. They found that not one of the children who worked went to school. They went into street prostitution. But we washed our hands and said, "We don't invest in these companies that have child labour, because there are some scary things." And there are some scary things, all of them agree. But what is the alternative for these children? That must be the essential thing. Nor should we forget that we should not go so far back in Norwegian history until we also had child labour. We actually had a holiday named after child labour – the potato holiday, which is now called the fall holiday. And we had child labour in the mines the time we needed to develop our country and our economy. But we're sitting here practicing Ethic imperialism. We're sitting on our high horse, and we know best. We're going to tell the rest of the world how they're going to run ethics. Although our ethics is constantly evolving and changing from day to day, from year to year, we believe that the ethics that we stand for at all times is the ethics that everyone else should also stand for, despite the fact that we didn't stand for it a few years ago. Then you should ask yourself, why don't we have 40 pst. women in management boards? Are we going to invest in companies that don't have ethnic minorities in management? Where is the limit of what you should be able to ask for? Obviously, the limit goes out a little bit further. Then I haven't even talked about the return, because I think it's subordinate to these inconsistencies in the ethical, practical implementation of the policy related to SPU. We should be concerned about the individual country, not sitting on our high horse and working with ethics imperialism and believing that we are doing something wise and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1161	The President cannot see that more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1177	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1184	The background to this case is the general system of VAT compensation provided by the Tax Compensation Act. That law applies to municipalities and county councils, but in order to counteract distortions of competition, some private actors are also covered by that scheme. This applies to private and non-profit institutions producing health services, educational services or social services which municipalities or counties are required by law to provide. The proposers have pointed out disputes between the State and the municipalities and their partners on the understanding of the projects covered by the ‘private and non-profit enterprises producing health services, educational services or social services which municipalities or county municipalities are required by law to carry out’. There have been different understandings of this. The majority of the Committee attends a review of the legislation in this area, a review which the Minister of Finance may have said by letter to the Committee. A recent decision by the Supreme Court is of course an important premise for that work. The Christian People's Party, which promoted this document initially, believes that there should be a requirement for projects to be eligible for VAT compensation. One of the requirements proposed is that the owner of the dwellings must be a non-profit-making actor who himself does not extract the profits of the project, while the other opposition parties have a proposal to ensure full equal treatment between municipalities, non-profit actors and ordinary private individuals. There have been many debates about the distinction between private ideals and private commercials, where some people think the distinction is artificial, while it is a well-known case that in the Workers' Party in general we have much of the same approach as the Christian People's Party, that there is a difference between those who extract profit and those who work with other goals. In this specific case, I still think it is right and important to await the review that the Ministry of Finance will now have. I also see that there is a broad understanding in the committee that there is a work that one has seen as natural to wait until the Supreme Court decision has come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1197	I refer to the proposal from the Party of Presidents, the Right and the Left. The proposals of the Christian People's Party are very good at this, so well that we share the vast majority of the arguments of the proposers. But we have a different approach to this with social housing. It is not just ideal actors, so-called good-looking actors, who need exemption from VAT. It's also the private actors, who can also be nice, by building in private. What has been one – let's say – black February in the courts of the Government, by having done the art of losing two difficult things in the Supreme Court in less than a month, in a few weeks, should perhaps lead to the Ministry of Finance listening a little bit more to both shipping companies and the maritime industry. In this case, they have to listen to those who build homes for disadvantaged people. As the Ministry has so far interpreted it — and there is reason to believe that many people still think it should be strong — only the municipality should have reimbursement, or non-profit institutions serving households. In the case of Alta, and in many other cases, there are examples of municipalities having to create a bureaucracy without equal to complying with VAT rules. Unofficial and official complex dialogues with the tax system are to be found to ensure that the housing is subject to VAT reimbursement. One experiences, in a theoretical, absurd situation, that if a municipality and a private build up splices on building a two-man dwelling for two 18-year-olds, two 60-year-olds or two 70-year-olds, one will get full VAT refund, while in the other case, in a neighboring building for the same purpose, and it is by chance who lives in which of the dwellings does not receive VAT refund. The proceeds from the state are probably motivating for the department bureaucrats, but if the option is that the municipalities are forced to build themselves, the state will not get income from VAT anyway. Therefore, you must have a non-discrimination that does not go on who lives and who operates the service, but on what is built, has as purpose and will have as purpose in retrospect, after the construction has come up. That has to be the big starting point for us in the right. Then there are many municipalities that have worked with housing social action plans that say yes, you need more care homes, it will soon be solved. But one of the big bends, which the municipal minister is well aware of, is that there is a huge shortage of rental homes. There is a great lack of housing for addicts. Crime in freedom reports that municipalities are very poor in those who have just come out of prison and need to find a home. This must be taken. If the municipalities are just going to do all this by themselves, you're going to get queues, because the municipalities are not going to be able to prioritize everything at once. If the private people, who are now offering to find solutions, can help the municipality and keep costs down, as statistics show that private people are able to do, in relation to just municipal arrangements, you will get more competition, and you might get more homes to offer those who actually need housing, whether it's municipal or state-owned. This has been the starting point for the proposal that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have agreed on, that we want full equal treatment, but that the purpose of the dwelling, that is to say that the municipality decides who will live there and how long, must also be included. Of course, it must be an encroachment on the property, that the purpose is maintained when he moves out. Housing is assumed to be part of the municipal housing social action plan. It really means that it doesn't matter to the Norwegian community, and at least it doesn't matter to those who are in the queue, where the VAT refund tends to cause some dwellings not to be built. In some cases they are built anyway, and the 25 pst. the higher construction costs that are now reflected in the rentals, which some municipalities and others like to be able to benefit from the State housing support scheme. So the state pays «anyway». And there is something that we can use in the matter that the Council of State has notified. Now you've lost in the Supreme Court once again. Maybe you should listen to the surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1220	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1223	It is a central theme that the Christian People's Party addresses. This applies to non-discrimination in value added tax reimbursement for private NPISHs versus municipalities that build and operate – I stress, build and operate – housing for vulnerable groups in the housing market. It is a long red-green tradition in our health and care policies that one has a combination of public and non-profit private organisations in this area, where the purpose of the ideal private organisation is to run an economic business, not for the purpose of making money, but to maintain and improve the supply. The current VAT compensation legislation applies to municipalities and county councils, as well as to private and non-profit institutions producing health services which municipalities or county municipalities are required to provide. We have come into a situation where there is a different understanding of the legislation. Disputes have arisen. There is agreement in the configuration that there is a need for a review because the legislation is not precise enough. At the same time, it is also agreed that a court hearing must be awaited. I would like to make a few brief comments on the comments of the Christian People's Party and what is stated in the comment, where it says: «Since the scheme is financed through the elements of the municipal framework, municipalities should also have control over the volume of projects under the VAT refund scheme». It's an important clarification, and it's very central that you have this in mind when you're going to develop this further. In the demands that the Christian People's Party has made to get under the regime, there is no requirement to operate this, and I think that is a mistake, or a neglect, because the proposal says that the requirement for the ideal private organizations is that one should both own and operate the business. Otherwise, it is interesting to note that in the proposal of the second part of the opposition – Left, Advance Party and Right – a full non-discrimination of the VAT refund for private and public actors is sought. The left has taken a position in which, in the opinion of the Centre Party, the right-wing triangle of economic policy that led Lars Sponheim was a strong figure. It also helps to divide one in this area between the three former government parties, and it is unfortunate, but it is gratifying to see that the Christian People's Party stands on a line of understanding, also in the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1241	It was very much to the attention of the representative of Lundtegen of the three former government parties that it was unfortunate that they did not stand together. I thought he was against the idea that it was very good that they were not together. I'm taking that care with me, and I think to the extent that the disagreement doesn't go that far. In any case, we want this proposal to ensure that the ideal businesses that own and – I stress, as the proposal says – operate this type of housing, can also participate in the VAT refund. As pointed out by several here, there have been many conflicts related to this – so many that there have finally been legal proceedings. The end of the visa is that the state lost in the Supreme Court a short time ago, and I expect that it will have consequences quite quickly when it comes to the follow-up work that the Government has now said they will deal with. I also interpret the submissions from the government parties to that effect that changes should not be restrictive, but extensive, so as to provide a basis for the refund of VAT for those who have now won the judiciary, and that one does not tighten up – because that is the other option in the law – and thus excludes the refund of VAT. Of course, if the Minister of Finance has something to say about this, we are grateful for that. I share the latter's views on the important cooperation between public and non-profit institutions in many areas of the welfare community. The proposal we are discussing here involves ensuring that this cooperation is strengthened, and that we continue to have ideal actors who want to contribute, and they want to contribute on equal terms, so that there is really no less offer for vulnerable groups than it could otherwise have been. That's the purpose of our proposal, and I'll take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1252	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1255	We are at the end of a week when VAT has been in a way – I don't want to say butchers, but at least a repetition in the media, from the National Auditor to the discussion on VAT on e-books and the document proposal that we are seeing today. I think it's important to remember what this VAT system is. It is an important contributor to all the good purposes to be financed from the State budget, and it is important to have both an efficient and a good VAT system. I believe that, to a certain extent, in the matter we are discussing today – without having to go too far – that the more exceptions it becomes, the more complicated and inconspicuous the VAT system becomes, and the more rates we get, the more vulnerable the VAT system becomes. It is important to have the overall approach to the changes to be made to this system. As a countyman, I was far away in this with VAT compensation for municipalities. I can say here in Stortinget that I have probably raised a lot of pointer fingers where VAT compensation has been used as revenue in the operating budget to finance long-term expenditure. So it has its sides, the system we're discussing here. Having said that, I also said in my reply to the Committee that I see that there is a basis and need for a review of the legislation in this area. In the letter I also indicated that it would be appropriate to await the decision in the Supreme Court before I did so. Now the judgment has fallen in the Supreme Court. It happened on 19 February, and the state lost – as it is referred to earlier in the debate. Of course, once the Supreme Court has spoken, the verdict is taken into account, and we are now doing a review of the premises in the department to clarify the significance of the judgment for the matter that the Grand Duchy is now discussing. In view of the purpose of the compensation scheme and the fact that the construction of housing for disabled people and caregivers is organised in different ways in the municipalities, I will review the legislation in this area and, of course, take with me the views that have come, including in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1272	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1280	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1288	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, which is the proposal in Document No. 8:74, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Siri A. Meling, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 4 and 5, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 2 to 5 is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1303	First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1327	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1344	Yes, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1357	It is then put to the vote on the proposal in Document No. 8:74, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a change in the conditions of concession for the start-up of the mobile gas power plants as soon as possible so that they also take price signals into account in the market, as well as to a greater extent used to prevent a power crisis due to empty water storage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1363	President! The right in the debate has announced that we will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1369	It is then that the Right should support this proposal. Is there anyone else to support this proposal? So it is the Right and the Advance Party that are to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1435	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-22, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–22, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1583	The Committee's position and proposal No will then be replaced by a vote. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own case, at the latest in the context of the 2011 State Budget, in which both concrete objectives and appropriate measures for business simplification are assessed together, including the proposals made by the Progress Party in Document 8:15 S [[2009-2010]] Here the Progress Party has announced that they wish to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1610	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, by Gunnar Gundersen, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a thorough review of the publication of tax lists with a focus on issues such as transparency and debate on the tax system, privacy and crime aspects. The case should be promoted in sufficient time to allow any changes to be made to the 2009 Equation Year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1639	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to tighten the publication of tax lists to make them available only from public databases/websites’.» The President understands that the Christian People's Party supports this proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1656	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a ban on the publication of the tax lists, in combination with a system of concession for access to the tax lists, where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1671	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure that information on income and tax is made publicly available upon request, where the name of the requester is registered and the person to whom the information is obtained is alerted. [[according to the current credit information collection model]] Here it is that the Progress Party supports the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1705	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1737	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:22 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1762	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Arve Kambe, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left Proposal No. 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government, by legislative proposal or regulation, to ensure that private, non-profit actors building and operating housing for vulnerable groups in the housing market, in agreement with the municipality, are subject to the VAT compensation scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1785	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government in the context of the announced review of today’s compensation legislation ensuring full equal treatment between municipalities, non-profit associations and ordinary private actors in terms of VAT compensation for the construction of housing for people in need of public assistance to live. It is assumed that the dwellings are part of the municipal housing social action plans where the municipality has the right to award.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-05.ana.ud1660e1854	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
