ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e65	Two permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative of Morten Höglund from 1 June to 4 June to take part in meetings of the University of the Arctic in Jakutsk, Russia, as representatives of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee from the Workers' Party's Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Wenche Olsen from 1 June to 7 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the goods, for Akershus County Tone Liljeroth and for Eastfold County Stein Erik Lauvås, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e96	Tone Liljeroth and Stein Erik Lauvås are present and will take the seat. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e101	I am delighted, on behalf of the big business representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Vigdis Giltun, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, to propose to introduce a 450-hour rule, according to a model from Denmark, to prevent more and more immigrants from falling outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e106	The representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e109	On behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on the handling of the submarine U-864. I would ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 28 d.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e116	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. As regards the last proposal put forward, the President will state that, during the minutes of the current meeting, it will be proposed that it be dealt with in accordance with Section 28(d) of the Rules of Procedure. That is, the decision will be taken immediately at the end of the day’s meeting. It turns out in retrospect that the vote result from yesterday's treatment was influenced by the fact that one of the seats in the hall from which it was voted was not registered for cast vote for technical reasons. If this one vote had been recorded, the final result would be equal to the vote, and the case would consequently be re-examined in a later meeting under Section 45 of the Rules of Procedure. On this basis, the President considers it appropriate that the proposal submitted be dealt with as already mentioned, so that the Grand Duchy can take a decision in line with the real situation in the Chamber. So we're going to get back to that in connection with today's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e140	We have a good tradition in Norway to make knowledge available to many. In any Norwegian home, having a good lexicon has been part of – I get to say – the standard inventory. It's part of our culture -- I think there's a lot of people who have spent a lot of winter vacations on knowledge games -- just to have factual knowledge available. It's an important culture to take care of. It's an important culture to pass on, it's that anyone should be able to acquire knowledge that you can reasonably rely on is right. Now this case is connected to the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia, but let's not make it just a matter of having Great Norwegians or not, let's make it a matter of how we in our country in the future intend to meet the need that I initially pointed out. But it's clear that the situation now is, the Great Norwegian is the most striking starting point for bringing this tradition forward. One is certain: if Great Norwegians are now closed down, there is a lot to be done to establish something new in the same street. I think we can say with enough certainty that it will not happen. This debate was part of a long-standing debate and a long-term process. The traditional lexicon has worn out. The paper editions are for the most part a mere story, and we also see that online editions – not only in our country but in many countries – are struggling to keep up with the effort to finance what is required by a libertarian editorial activity. This case was also up in the time of the Bondevik II government, and Kristin Clement then said no to support Great Norwegians in relation to further operations. The background was that at the time we thought it would be a functioning market in knowledge dissemination. We thought that the web would be the generalization where new business concepts and the many failed, and where the democratic element would make it possible to keep going a strong and good market-based knowledge dissemination. In this picture, it was also clear that the restrictions imposed by the EU on distortions of competition in the functioning of a market also made it very difficult to imagine supporting one actor. I also consider that to be part of the background of that attitude and the recordings that have come from the government in this matter. But since that time we've had some important experiences. We have learned that the market mechanisms in cyberspace were probably not what we thought. We thought that this was the great democratic general -- and that's it in and out. It has its great availability, anyone can get in, it's cheap to use, the possibilities are many. But the experience also tells us that it is very difficult to create profitable business concepts based on open online solutions. We have learned that there are also strong monopolistic tendencies – not only from a national market, as we are used to, but also from international actors. The law of nature that we've seen in the press every year, which is that it's the biggest newspaper that gets the ads, and the number two newspaper wears, we look at the extreme extreme extreme in the online world. Whoever hits the nail on his head has almost no limits of success, while all the others are pounding and struggling. This is a major issue in media policy that we should not address so much here, but we also see that other types of business are affected by it, for example. encyclopaedia, which is what we are now discussing. The competition for the advertisements is greater than ever, and the willingness to pay for the services of an audience used to receive free of charge is very limited. So my and the Right's starting point is that we have to discuss this, given that it's not a functioning market for knowledge dissemination. It is not that the queue is long for those who want to spend money editing, upgrading and processing knowledge for dissemination to a wide audience. Experience has told us that all the actors are largely gone. The actor who has outrun the others, Wikipedia, is based on other principles and on a much more -- let's admit it -- timely way of working. It actively uses the networks and invites the user to both provide knowledge and to correct where it is wrong, or to discuss what is right. It's a very good grip, but it's also a grip that has its clear weaknesses. First of all, Wikipedia is no old business. It is a relatively young company, which has spread with explosive power, and has thus had an uncompetitive effect on the rest of this market. Secondly, we see that Wikipedia too has weaknesses in making itself the arena of interest groups that need – what to say – a defining power. Power is not always a matter of money, power is also a matter of managing the truth, and Wikipedia is a suitable and open arena for just doing it, working actively to make one's own perception of the truth apply. Then you can ask yourself, is this going to be a democratic generalization, and whether factual information is suitable for debate, or whether it's really an arena that's becoming especially suitable for interest groups. We've seen interesting articles in the international press in the future that illustrate just this. Wikipedia also has no systematic quality assurance activity, nor is it edited on the basis of the lexical principles we are used to in relation to which quality requirements you would like to add to a lexicon. Another question is whether it is not that Wikipedia also needs competition. We have to ask ourselves whether there is a need to have an accessible quality-assured lexicon online in Norway, or whether we can handle Wikipedia. If the answer is that Wikipedia needs a corrective, that we need something next to Wikipedia that looks at functions and qualities other than what we can necessarily expect Wikipedia to do over time, then the next question is: Is this a state responsibility, is this an area of politics? And in that case, how are we going to deal with it in the future? The right-hand starting point is that the state as such should not operate a lexicon. There should be a good distance between state authorities and being able to get into a position where one can be accused of standing up to having power of definition, or in any way raising something to be official state truths. But if you could come up with a system like the one that is now outlined, for example. On the part of universities, in order to respond to the initiative taken by the Knowledge Publisher in entrusting the Foundation to the Foundation, we believe that through indirect state support – because I feel it is indirect if universities, the National Library, colleges or others have an active interest in this, which comes into the picture – everything will facilitate a good solution to a need that we believe is very important to address. If this is a solution we're going to have for eternity, don't know. But in a digital age when changes take place at a great pace, there will be an ongoing debate on what values and needs we will meet in the future. It's very fast that we can now pour the baby out with the bath water, simply because the societal changes go faster than the political environment manages.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e168	The interpellant has asked for an explanation of the government's views on the need for a widely available, edited, professionally based knowledge dissemination in the future. In addition, he asks whether the government will help to find solutions for the continuation of the Great Norwegian encyclopaedia. Let me do that last question first. As I have informed Stortinget about earlier, I have declined an application of 32 million. kr from the Knowledge Publisher. The application continued to operate and update the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia in the years up to 2014. There are several reasons for this refusal. We cannot support a single actor. This would be contrary to the EEA Agreement legislation on State aid. If the State were to provide support for lexicon operations, it had to be through the creation of a general scheme that more than Norwegian major lexicons could apply for. Large Norwegian lexicons operate according to a very costly model today, and I believe it is not a natural task for the state to operate a lexicon. We have not found examples of other Nordic/European countries where the state grants funds for professional updating of lexicons equivalent to Great Norwegian. I have been in contact with the Knowledge publisher to discuss issues related to the further operation of the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. I am informed about the work being done in transferring the content of the lexicon and the rights of use to an independent foundation. I have also taken the initiative to have a dialogue with the founding fathers to see if there is anything the National Library can contribute to this. The Free Word and the Saving Bank Foundation will help to find a solution for the dictionary, and they have allocated a total of 2 million. kr for further operation. The fact that private foundations are engaged in lexicon operations, we have among other things. See examples from Denmark. There have also been signs from university teams that it is positive that more people will be involved. It is interesting to consider the possibility that professionals in the university and higher education sectors can contribute with the updating of lexicons as part of their dissemination tasks. Of course, it is not something I as Minister of Culture can impose on them. Nor will such a solution trigger state resources. The case has engaged many. There is a lot of writing in debates, newspapers and blogs. It is not the case that everyone involved in the debate has engaged in or raised a state-funded Great Norwegian encyclopaedia. Several have pointed out that the State should not engage in competition on the lexicon market and that we should not establish a ‘State-authorised’ lexicon. But the debate on SNL has also evolved into something more than lexicons. It also raises fundamental questions about our knowledge and information society. There have been significant changes in recent years. The amount of information is enormously compared to the time I sat in the living room and turned into a lexicon when I was wondering about something. There are several operators and operators. A lot is available online, just a few keystrokes away. Increasingly, today we are going straight to the primary source. The amount of information is greater than ever. This information stream can seem overwhelming on many. It's overflowing with information, it's said, we need a source we can trust in all this chaos. Yes, the new knowledge society is rocking by our traditional view of knowledge and knowledge dissemination. Yes, a huge amount of information is offered. And yes, there are new demands for us as users. But I do not readily agree that the answer to that challenge lies in the ambition to maintain and operate a so-called national dictionary – that the solution should be in one authoritative knowledge base. Society has changed, and as a result, the assumptions for policy instruments change. But the targets are set. The government’s vision is that Norway should be a leading knowledge nation. We put great emphasis on culture in all parts of our society, and we have committed ourselves to this through the Cultural Promise. Over the period 2006-2010, state transfers have increased by a total of DKK 2.7 billion. In this context, it is worth highlighting the importance of cultural policy for the knowledge society and for our language. We have a goal of giving the widest possible access to a wide range of sources of knowledge and culture. We provide great resources for language, literature and library purposes. 110 million. kr goes to the purchasing systems for literature. It helps to ensure a new Norwegian-language literature. It ensures that people all over the country find current literature in their library. Archives, libraries and our museums manage collections we like to refer to as our collective memory. There are sources that give us insight into the emergence and development of our society. Sources are an irreplaceable resource for research, for education, for cultural and social development. The cultural heritage is a collective good. We want as much as possible access to it. The use of ICT provides new opportunities for the preservation, making available and dissemination of both sources of archives, libraries and museums. Therefore, we are now offensively betting on digitisation of collections in both libraries, archives and museums. Digital making available online makes our collections available far more than before. Popular examples of this include the National Library Book Shelf.no and the Archives Digital Archive.no. In total, the Arkivverket has digitised 26.5 million pages of documents. It is a task that public authorities have taken to make availability much better, and far more than in the past, with this access to the primary source. Most of it is freely available on the digital archive.no. In 2009, the audience opened up a total of 180 million pages of digital material in the Digital Archive. On 6 May opened the archive portal.no. The Arkivportal is a national archival search service. It makes it possible to search for archive sources across institutional boundaries. Services will make archive material more accessible to the public. But not everyone goes straight to the primary source. A central part of what our archives, libraries and museums do is about compiling and organizing information. Good peer-to-peer communication creates insight and understanding. It gives knowledge and experience. That is why we still need to focus on the active dissemination of knowledge and culture, both physically and online. The Government contributes to the development of Norway as a culture and knowledge society. It stands and does not fall with the state operation of Great Norwegian encyclopaedia. We ensure that Norwegian-language sources are created and preserved. And we ensure that knowledge is disseminated to the public by professionals, among others. in museums, archives and libraries. Knowledge dissemination is an important objective of cultural policy and a task that we give very high priority to. This is how we contribute to facilitating an open and informed public conversation, i.e. the practice of freedom of expression and broad participation in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e191	I noticed that the Council of States refers to the EEA Agreement and the systems around it, and I understand that it has been the starting point for thinking about the distortion of competition, which we are used to when talking about competition in the EEA context. I have a question that I cannot see that I get an answer to. This presupposes that it is a functioning market. The fact that it is considered to be a functioning market is, of course, the bottom plan in the whole of the EEA Agreement. In areas where there is no functioning market, i.e. in the cultural field, there is no problem that we use state resources directly or indirectly to keep activities going. We have large theatre institutions, big music institutions, and we have NRKs running with public funds – here is the range of exceptions for bringing in the competitive thinking. I believe that this should also be a task to bring these issues into line with the EEA Agreement. Then I think it is positive that the Council of State is listening to the work of the National Library. It is well in itself the only straw left after the Council of State's posts, in the sense that she stands on what she's been on in the whole spring. I might have hoped that the formulations had settled on a little more – I'll say – dusty level, but that's not how I read her. It's a shame, because I think the government and the council ignore some important perspectives. I believe that the democratic element is very important. The fact that you have a simple way to quality assurance knowledge, I believe is an important democratic consideration that is valid in terms of communicating to everyone. Seeking the primary source, as the Council of State pointed out, is moving through challenging landscapes to find relevant sources, and then clearing up among them, is a matter that professionals will do in any case, but it is not a path that is democratic in terms of finding out. I also took note of the views of the Council of State on the role of the professional community, where she is constantly talking about professionals who, if necessary, will voluntarily deliver here. I believe that the interesting perspective is whether universities will actively use such an institution as the one we're talking about, as part of their knowledge dissemination. I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e206	The representative Thommessen says that today's youth has to "turn around" online to find knowledge. Yes, that's how the young people sitting in this gallery find out about information – they're going online no matter what's in the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. It's the way we have to teach young people to be critical of everything they find online, anyway. That part of learning the youth of the future to search for ourselves, we simply can't jump over. The same is true of Great Norwegian encyclopaedia. In Great Norwegian encyclopaedia there are also no source references, where the individual author has retrieved his information. In many areas, we have recently seen that we have had a healthy debate on what are scientific facts, and what is questionable. If we are to facilitate a large Norwegian encyclopaedia that conveys one type of authoritative truth, we must demand that it also have source references, which are not the case today with the Great Norwegian Encyclopaedia. I think that's a task that the state shouldn't undertake. So that's the question of the EEA Agreement. There is no possibility of granting State aid to a single operator that has previously operated on a commercial basis. Such a change of rules must be notified and searchable also for others. If we create a state lexicon drive, we will have to make it searchable for others, in line with the press support, so that for example. Wikipedia can apply to the same support scheme. With regard to the arrangements that we already have within some dictionaries, they were established before we got to the EEA Agreement. Therefore, those arrangements should not be notified. It is not possible to compare the support for these dictionaries with the State aid for Great Norwegian encyclopaedias. I want to be positive if there is a solution, so that university and university students view it as part of their dissemination mission that they should also disseminate knowledge to the young people sitting in the gallery here, and that it may well be as important as making a scientific publication. It will be an important contribution to the community from the university and higher education communities. I hope they will contribute through the new foundation, but to contribute to one-sided state aid to maintain a business model that is currently used by very few people, I do not think is good use of state resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e219	Large Norwegian lexicons have played a significant role as a source of knowledge in many homes and schools. There has been a well-worked reference work, a citation tool and a common memory bank for generations. But it hasn't been possible to keep up with the time, the modern part culture, or the desire for up-to-date knowledge. Large Norwegian lexicons are often compared to the Wikipedia online lexicon, where everyone can contribute to articles and editing. I'm going to make that comparison, too. I do that because Wikipedia's mode of function and success at the same time say something about why Great Norwegian encyclopaedia then until those degrees have been played on the sideline – by itself, by the competition and by the users. Many appeal points can be raised against the way Wikipedia works. It's e.g. variable quality of the articles, they are vulnerable to sabotage and the articles are unsigned. These are challenges that they themselves recognize. At the same time, I think, Wikipedia is a stronger expression of its time than the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia is, and that despite the fact that Great Norwegians are often presented as a reminder of reality that we have had in different periods of time. The Internet dictionary is interesting as a phenomenon because it is a clear expression of the modern divisional culture that is found in all social media. At best, Wikipedia is significantly better than many other reference works. Popular articles are thorough. Footnotes and links are directed to websites where you can deepen the theme you are busy with. In addition, it's an expression for a society without any news deadline. The most popular articles are being updated frequently, and new articles are being created on an ongoing basis. For example, an application is made for: in Great Norwegian encyclopaedia on the new word ‘askfast’, there is no explanation of that concept. Instead, the search engine suggests that you rather look at the word ‘ ash fish’, which turns out to be the common Nordic name of the Ashkeladden. If you apply to Wikipedia’s ‘cinderella’, you get several episodes of the new word that the volcanic eruption in Iceland brought with you. The interpellant is concerned that factual knowledge should be easily accessible to the general public. A few jobs are as easily accessible as Wikipedia. It's also one of the first matches you get when you search for Google, almost no matter what you apply for. This makes the user threshold for Wikipedia very low. Large Norwegian lexicons do not reach out in the same way. This is a problem for Great Norwegians, and it is also a problem for the representative Thommessen. I wonder how much money in the revised or in the state budget right will be set aside for a mastodont that is used little, and that has a high user threshold, as the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia is today. It is clear that the monument of lexicon articles is beyond its time of reality, and as Great Norwegian lexicons have been in many rounds, Wikipedia cannot be. But perhaps the most obvious memorial after our time is that we challenge the idea of objective truth. In that case, it will be a very important lesson for both children and young people, who must train their critical senses, and an important reminder for all of us that reality cannot be defined and written down once and for all in a rail-bound status symbol that you can put in the shelf. I have followed the debate on the future of Great Norwegian encyclopaedia and am pleased to see how Great Norwegians can be made more relevant, more user-friendly and more up-to-date. Because it's a long way to go. If you can combine the professional quality of the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia with the dynamic article updates of Wikipedia, it will be the very best. In its present form, however, Great Norwegian lexicons are dysfunctional as reference works online, and it is uninteresting as reference works in paper format. I see no reason why the state should take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e236	I see that it's cold in the hall today – a lot of people use scarf. I might recommend the president to turn the heat up. So to the matter. Free Word is a private foundation that builds infrastructure for ideas, quite independent of public money. The result is not rarely that some actions in cultural and knowledge life that would otherwise not have been realised actually become part of it. The non-profit foundations and funds in Norway have been very grateful during the financial crisis. Free Word has become the most famous source of this kind, with its wealth from the sale of shares in Narvesen and later investments. 2.5 months. kr they now manage, and they distribute in excess of 70 million. kr per. years. Most of the non-profit-making companies are the Reserve Bank Foundation DnB NOR, which owns shares in the largest bank in the country and distributes SEK 110 million. kr every year, largely for measures for children and young people, and which I believe is a very positive and good contributor. For both foundations, other major investments are in addition. Most visible in Fritt Ord's profile are probably the large project assignments, those that build infrastructure – mainly for good ideas. I support the government's refusal to receive 32 million. to Great Norwegian encyclopaedia on the State budget. We need to cooperate with more, and there are good ideas for the government councils, such as the University, the National Library, the Free Word Foundation and the DnB Foundation. It is important to work together to get Big Norwegian encyclopaedia back on the web. Of the two largest Free Word projects in the last decades, however, the purchase of the Morning Paper was seven years ago. A few tens of millions of dollars from money laundering have created a very popular weekly, so it's possible to make money on information and knowledge. And then it's the establishment of the Foundation of the House of Literature, which I want to draw out, the institution at the Palace Park, which has become an arena for a whole range of cultural and social organizers. More importantly, it should be for Free Word to identify countercurrent projects, as an example. Here we have to find new solutions. Free Word is an idea entrepreneur behind a lot. Then there are many good examples of private contributors. The industrial man Trond Mohn, for example, has given over 1.5 billion. kr. in the last years, and in winter, the shipowners' family gave Jebsen 800 million. kr for research – possibly the largest single gift for the purpose of Norway’s history. So it's possible to find private contributors. The funds and foundations, as a sector, have in no way been heated or actively helped by national policies. Here we have a responsibility, here the Stortinget has a responsibility. In particular, politicians from the government parties have considered the contributions as ‘private government councils’ – and uff a me, we should not have any of them – beyond political control. Now it seems that both the government and the state council are about to turn around. The opposition is now becoming confused, when you see what the contributions are creating, and you realize that it is an important addition to the flood of public money. But still, the government has no active policy to make the funds and foundations more and more active. However, they are now scouring against the private sector in order to cooperate on the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. It's in the right direction, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e259	I grew up in the kind of home that has been mentioned here, a home where one had to have a lexicon. And yes, it was a rail-bound thing, but I didn't see it as a status symbol. It was simply a necessity, for it was where one could find everything one wondered about, and that was where one could trust that what stood was right. It was definitely a child of its time that it was needed, and of which one had great benefit, but today we are challenged in a completely different way. Today is a new time. It's completely new methods, it's new habits and routines. And I'm a little surprised that so much of the debate is going to talk about the old look-up, when that's not what we're talking about at all. It's the new way to communicate in the future, on the web, which is the topic today. We have to, I believe and mean the Right, take over the reality that the only quality-assured web-based look-up we have can disappear. It's, in our opinion, a big threat. We would like it to be a market that could take care of this, but as of today it is not such a market. So what is the possibility? Well, there is a great opportunity that someone has now been offered to actively contribute to making it possible to operate in a foundation. So we ask if it's a state responsibility to do it. I believe everyone here in the pulpit, as I see it, is completely in agreement that the state should not do such a look-up. But I think everyone also agrees that the state has a responsibility to ensure that there is a look-up that is to be trusted. It's been a lot of commitment, and we're happy about that. This shows that many still have a relationship with this type of reference work. It's not that the new possibilities have completely replaced what we need. I'm glad that the National Library now seems to have a role, and that the Council of State will ask them to continue working on it. But I would probably wish for greater positivity and a greater commitment – and I would like dialogue with other government councils – to get universities and colleges more involved in this work. Universities and higher education institutions are competent and have a societal mission that can be combined to help ensure a Norwegian quality dictionary. They can be involved in it in a good way. They can have it as part of their communication. And not least, I think it's important that we still put facts in print – if I had said so – or online, in Norwegian. It's like today that at least those who are good at it can surf around and find the facts, but that's not all they find in our own language. And for many there is still a need. I noticed that there was a lot of reference to the young people sitting in the gallery. That's good, because we're going to bet on these, but we're going to have a look-up for all the people. I must say that as an adult man, I feel upset about my stomach if my ability to look up a quality-assured look-up on the web disappears. Where should I then be able to guarantee the quality of the conflicting messages that I get, and the places where I find facts that are obviously emphasized by someone's opinions? That wouldn't be good. It's not about the old memorial, as was said here, but it's about a new look-up, adapted today, updated in relation to today. And there's a big difference between state operations and active participation to put in place the offer you've now received of a foundation. I hope the Council of State can formulate itself even stronger and more positively, even in terms of the initiative that has come from universities and colleges. That they have a good opportunity to go in, and also support to go in and start up a participation in this work in order to ensure quality assurance facts formulated in Norwegian, is an important piece to take care of in our language.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e278	The representative Thomsen was concerned about the temperature in the room – whether it was called here. But it's probably the coldest part of the Progress Party group. The shrews here today are obviously a warm expression of solidarity to peace activists and the people of Gaza. So to the matter. I share many of the interpellant's thoughts about a professionally based lexicon. Wikipedia represents something important in both knowledge and democracy, namely participation. If you were to click on a Wikipedia article about e.g. Zionism - a random example - you will find that it has been edited back and forth by various actors x number of times. People don't quite agree on what Zionism is for anything. The same was true of the old Wikipedia article on Socialist Youth, where no one fully agreed on what really happened at the National Meeting in 1981. In this debate, I, you, my grandmother, and the world's leading scientists on the same foot, i.e. that we have the same editing options. Everyone can participate, everyone can edit, give a living discussion about what is knowledge, and not least about what is true. It's a value in itself. However, it does not replace the need for a national knowledge-based look-up service based on research and science. It's important to add that high participation in Wikipedia gives high control, and thus articles of very high quality, but we still don't know who writes them, and why. Whether the solution has chosen the Great Norwegian encyclopaedia is the right one, I don't want to be sloppy, but I'm sure that we need a research-based look-up that's available to everyone. Because although no knowledge is objective, there is a difference between research-based knowledge and other knowledge. Such a lexicon is also important for the language of a small language community such as Norway. In addition, I would like to add that lexicons are an important document on the understanding of the present. Looking into the work movement's lexicon 50 years ago tells us a lot about our own story, and what kind of knowledge they thought was important and correct. I don't think the interpellant, the Council of State or the undersigned want a state encyclopedia, but I hope the Council of State sees the value of professional knowledge for everyone, and takes a role in finding solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e291	The Constitutional Act § 100 requires the state authorities to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. We also had the so-called Freedom of Speech Commission, which in its time assumed that the so-called infrastructure requirement could include a wide range of public actions ranging from school, education, art, culture, public support to organisations, through press support for financial support to media for minority groups. As you know, evolution is dynamic, society is constantly changing. The prerequisite for active informed participation in the societal debate is free access to a diversity of information and views. In particular, it is important to take care of the infrastructure and provide access to sources of high credibility. State press support – the VAT exemption – forms part of the infrastructure requirement. We are also concerned about the preservation of Norwegian as a scientific language. It's about securing the Norwegian language even within the academy. This is also the subject of broad political agreement, as in particular. was expressed when we dealt with the language message. Then we are also concerned about caring for Norwegian cultural history. It requires sources that are not only work-based but are also peer-based. Then it is a great advantage to have an editorial environment that guarantees the quality of the information. Therefore, it is also important to take care of and strengthen the traditions in Norway that contribute to it. So you can ask the question, is it a government problem to run a lexicon? No, it's not. However, this does not mean that state authorities should withdraw from such an important discussion as is currently taking place about the future of the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. An important starting point may be precisely the Constitution, which states that it is up to the government to facilitate an open and informed public conversation. The question of the role of the State in relation to Great Norwegian encyclopaedia is not just a yes or no question. There is a question of active cultural policies in order to help ensure that the parties who should talk, talk, and those who might be able to contribute actually get on the road. Here the State and the Minister of Culture can play a role. I agree, to a large extent, with a lot of the Prime Minister's principal starting point here. But cultural policy is challenging, given that we do not always have the same markets as we do in other sectors. It sometimes takes great pragmatism to ensure that we have the businesses, the activity, the cultural diversity and the quality we want. I also note that in industrial policy the government is much less principleal, to say the same, in terms of the role of the state in terms of the type of intervention to be taken to ensure activity and activity in Norway. My conclusion will be that I will challenge the Minister of Culture not only to reason in principle, but perhaps to even greater extent than before actively contribute to looking for solutions, turn around the stones that can be turned around, to see how the State can possibly contribute during a transitional period, possibly in ways other than direct support – not least through contributions from the university and higher education sectors, the professional environments. How can they be credited and awarded by, for example, professionals? does this kind of publication we're talking about here? I assume that there is a great commitment to ensure that we have professional environments that contribute and facilitate an open and informed debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e310	Large Norwegian lexicons have been an important knowledge base in many homes. It has also led to many social jumps for many students who have had mother and father who have not known the answer, but who actually had something on the shelf that knew the answer. As a result, knowledge has increased in the Norwegian people – yes, it has actually led to many family troubles or quarrels at late parties being clarified with a simple little look-up in the book. So this has both led families to more and more harmonious homes, I would say! Fighting for education in a society is a struggle that sometimes feels that you have forgotten as a politician, at least for many. I have to say that I don't like the term "rotate forward" in information. I think the new class distinction in Norwegian school for children and youth will go between those who are able to find out in the information society and those who are unable to find out in the information society. All the information will be available. It will be available at a single keystroke on each cell phone. But that doesn't mean that everyone is able to relate to that information, that you can see what's the difference between what's written about Nazism in the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia and what's written about Nazism on a website of some nynazists. That's a pretty important difference. It's very important if you're going to fight for education in a society that you're also fighting for young people not only to get on the Internet, but also actually know what is the right information, what is the wrong information, and how to read information. That is why this is a much more important debate than it might seem. It's not about sponsoring a business or not. I believe that political work is about a much greater creativity than saying yes and no to applications. In fact, it's about occasionally setting some a little daring goals on the basis that you think you're facing some new challenges. The challenges facing the information society are, at least, a clear and important challenge for this growth. This is not about saying yes or no to a State aid application. Then it's about thinking about some modern ideas about what a lexicon is in an information society. I think Wikipedia is amazing. It's very good, and it's also very good for all of us who know how to take information. But as a first-hand source when, as an eight-year-old, you're going to look up for the first time, I think as a teacher, I didn't come to suggest Wikipedia, because it takes a lot of knowledge to be able to take advantage of the knowledge that's there. It's essentially a source for us adults, who actually know how to read critical sources. That's why it's important that we think of a modern idea of what is lexicon. Then I'm a little skeptical that the National Library should be naveled in such a thought. To me, it's obvious that it's the universities that are naved in such a thought. The idea of getting the universities on the team to create a new type of lexicon, modern, as an entrance to the information sitting there, which also forces our researchers and our best intermediaries to sit down and figure out how to pass it on to a non-academic audience, who doesn't necessarily have a university degree to join the table, or who is just simply eight years and will look up some of the basic things you're wondering about – I imagine that such a model would have been much more driving than what's in the library idea. I think the libraries are becoming even more important in such an information society, but I think it's the universities that should be the base of such a model. Then they should also be the driving force to get it out. I believe that if the Minister of Culture had sat down with the Minister of Research – if we still have it – and made a model that had been first and foremost naved in such a new lexicon thought at universities, and linked it up to dissemination, we would have had an exciting solution, which I believe would have benefited both the children of Norway, the Norwegian professional language and the Norwegian people. Maybe it had also stopped some family troubles or late discussions in the city, because you could turn up and find out what the facts are in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e326	Taking care of history, on the facts, has been depopulated in the People's Isle as far back as one finds traces of humanity. As many have been here today, many have grown up in a home where the lexicon in some form has had its place in the bookshelf. As the previous speaker said, if you had a need to stop hot discussions, which would have happened when the facts were to be discussed, it was okay to bring down the lexicon. There was the answer, and it was often quiet around the table. That the Storting today discusses the lexicon's place in the future Norwegian society was an unimaginable thought just a short time ago. But we do. The reasons can be many. However, the feedback from the market is clearly summarised. The audience is looking for other solutions. As both the interpellant, the councillors and those who have spoken before me have been involved, the situation concerns many. We see that through countless newspaper posts, dedicated blogs and debates in other forums. Will anyone be responsible for the further operation of the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia? That's probably the main question. What happens next? And in case, in what form? I'm not going to go into this part of the debate for the simple reason that I think the Council of State in its statement was very clear on what will be the responsibility of the state in the future. At the same time, I give my full support to the Council of State for her commitment, along with other actors, to find future solutions that ensure the operation of the great cultural heritage that lies in the work that has been done so far within the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. Everyone agrees that some form of care must be taken. But what will future solutions be? And what do we want to meet? I think we've already met the future, if you can express yourself like this. Just a few keystrokes away, we're meeting an information society that's huge. There are countless providers and actors, and we are beginning to see that some players are given more space than others. It's enough to mention Google and Wikipedia as the two big ones, which also several have been involved. We see what they have to offer, the content seems impressive to most people, including me. You find answers to most, but the criticism and questions that rise up against these two big ones are whether you can trust what's being put out. For many, it's important that you can trust it because you perceive what's being laid out, as eternal truth. But the experience so far is that unfortunately we cannot go well for everything that is being spent. The main criticism of Wikipedia is that much of what is being spent is made anonymous, and for that reason it creates uncertainty. One of our major challenges will be: how can we provide safe and qualitatively good information through what is offered in the gigantic information society of which we are all part? I have very close to some good answers to this challenge. But I'm pretty sure the digital dictionary of the future will be rooted in the same principles that Wikipedia is built on. The Wikipedia model, where everyone can register and write what they want about everything between heaven and earth, is democratic and important, but the big challenge is that it can also open up both person attacks and political agendas. We have to avoid that. I read an interesting article in the morning paper on a new online community that is about to establish itself in the United States, called the Citizendium. The web dictionary, launched in 2007, is filled with the content of anyone who wants to contribute, such as Wikipedia. But what's interesting about this solution is that you can't act anonymously. You have to deal with certain driving rules. Perhaps the most important difference, however, is that Citizendium gives experts a role in the online community. All articles shall be approved by a named person with competence in the relevant field. It is important to note that this offer also conflicts with learners. It's not open enough, the critics say. It is in itself an important debate, but in my view it is very important to have good and clear driving rules. Qualitative requirements must be imposed on contributors. For me, and many with me, it is a very important principle to include in the debate on what might be tomorrow's Norwegian solution. Whatever happens, I'm not afraid of the future Norwegian cultural society. The Council of State gave a good account of this in its statement, and I am therefore not going to repeat it from the pulpit now. But today's debate is very important. But for my own part, I hope that organisational solutions will be found to ensure that we can operate a Norwegian lexicon solution within the framework of the Council of State set out in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e354	The representative Simensen said that everyone really agrees that we need an edited lexicon. My answer to that is: No, we do not agree on that. Then we'll continue the debate elsewhere. Reality is as follows: The government has not given any concessions as to how the state should be an active contributor to the continuation of the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia, or, for that matter, to bring a new actor on the track who will assume the role of an edited, quality-assured knowledge base. There are no indications that there is a desire for a debate on the limitations of the EEA Agreement. No signals have been given that universities as such should be able to enter and act as active actors in this. The Council of State has consistently maintained that it is nice if professionals contribute voluntarily to this. That's okay, but there's no obligation in any direction. The reality is that the government parties, with the Workers' Party at the head, do not think it is so dangerous how this works, and that they are prepared for the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia to be closed on 1 July. I think it's good to name it and call it a spade a spade. Then we find in the opposition, most of us -- I am glad that the Christian People's Party has obviously moved something in this -- that it is drawing fast conclusions in a time of great change. The representative Tajik had the main focus on Wikipedia. No, this isn't a Wikipedia attack. The opposition parties, with the Right, don't think there's anything wrong with Wikipedia in and out. But in addition to having some obvious forces, great forces, Wikipedia also has some obvious weaknesses, and the weaknesses we believe there is reason to take them along and see if it is possible to compensate in some way, where the public probably has to play a role, so far as the market mechanisms don't work as we're used to. We are going to get a case by case back in this room, where we see that with the major changes in the market that are taking place, the balance we have had between the market and public responsibility will be put to new tests. This is an example of that. Then it's important to be conservative. Then it's actually important to see what values you want to take into the communities of the future, and see how you can find solutions to it based on new premises. Of course, a continuation of an edited knowledge base has to adapt to time, and maybe Big Norwegian encyclopaedia has not been good enough for that. But the large networks to which the Council of State initially referred, through the National Library, Museum Networks, Culture.no – there are many things that can be connected – should together be able to create a base that will enrich Norwegian society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e365	I think there are opportunities to further develop Great Norwegian lexicons, but then it is important for me to be clear on what the state can contribute, and what the state cannot contribute to. We do not contribute with State aid to the further development of the existing business model. What I have said, on the other hand, is that the National Library can contribute in a context where Free Word and savings bank foundations contribute funds. But I believe that the role of the state is to contribute to further development and not to a model where we are to say: Continue as you have now, and you will receive state support on the table for that. I have not yet registered that the representative Thommes has said that the Right will spend money on this. And that's what's typical of Right engagement in this case, that they're positive -- here the government doesn't take enough responsibility, they say -- but he hasn't answered how much money Right wants to put on the table to keep this business model. I also notice that the commitment is largely about preserving the Norwegian cultural heritage. I'm very busy preserving the Norwegian cultural heritage, but to preserve the culture around it that we have an active knowledge society where the threshold gets lower so that more people can access knowledge is about completely different instruments in our time than it was about when I and Olemic Thommessen had a lexicon at home in the living room. And I'll have to disappoint the representatives of Harberg and Skei Grande. When the representative Harberg says he will be concerned if he discovers that young people or children are at home and are looking online for sources of knowledge that are not authorized, I must disappoint him in saying that yes, there they are! And the representative Skei Grande says she won't recommend Wikipedia to children – well, we're not really up to that reality. Kids are online, and they're looking where they want to. Then we have to teach them to be critical of all the knowledge they find online. Although there are major Norwegian lexicons today, no parent can force their children to say: You are only allowed to search the Great Norwegian lexicon when you do homework! They are simply not listening to it; they are searching for all kinds of information sources. I'm positive if the founders find a solution here, but it's not up to me to sketch a direction for the founders. I have said what the state can contribute, and I believe that a solution can be found, but then the state must also be clear about what we do not want to contribute. And the EEA Agreement has limitations – there can be no doubt about it – but I would be positive, as Olemic Thommes has been involved, if professionals view this as part of their dissemination mission. It is really at the heart of being a university employee and a university employee that one also has a responsibility for communicating to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e381	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e397	For every year there will be fewer farmers. There will be fewer farms, the area cultivated will be smaller, and the desire to operate traditional agriculture seems to be decreasing among those who can take over after their parents. The profitability has become so poor that a few weeks ago a letter was handed over where about half of Norway’s rapporteurs demanded better profitability in industry. My claim is that if it had been a civil government now, even more rapporteurs had signed it. But the signals are strong, very strong. The negative development of agriculture has been for many years, regardless of social or civil government. With this development, according to my calculations, it may only be left about. 25 000 active farms in a few years. Once again, there will be many negative ring effects, such as: cultural landscapes that grow again, with large decay in the building mass, many fewer jobs, moving away from the alleys, craftsmen and crafts traditions that disappear – and this is what I can ram up – and, not least, less to show to our tourists. And that's where I want this interpellation. The Progress Party wants the individual farmer, together with his or her, to have the freedom to develop and develop the opportunities available to each farm. Ordinary traditional agriculture has been managed for many years, but the development and opportunities available have not been included in Norwegian agriculture. There has been a good investment in new and larger machinery as well as some building mass, but with as much debt as agriculture has today, many problems to see bank managers in their eyes when they meet. Therefore, the Progress Party wants it to be possible to obtain other and more revenue opportunities. One of several is to be able to combine agriculture and travel. Norway is made up of a lot of nature just lying there. This is too many completely unique, and there are many ways to spend it, just to make money. Giving other experiences and thus improving their quality of life is one of them. I am aware that there is some of this, and that someone is driving some kind of this combination, but it has to be encouraged. By removing a rigid code where only the old traditional agriculture is protected, the farmer is given opportunities. For others, a farm, its life and tasks, are very exciting. This industry must be allowed to make maximum use of it. The National Strategy on Tuna is an example of something positive, but can be further developed. I also register that Norway's Bond team wants to have a clearer profile on the work with food and travel life. This is good. We need to make even more clear how good the Norwegian food is, and what quality it has. Here we are among the best in the world, maybe the best in some areas. But the question is whether we get paid for this, and whether everyone knows about this. To clarify some of the thoughts I have about the possibilities of Norwegian agriculture through tourism and travel, I would like to mention one thing: we need to change the law on motor travel in the country. It's too strict and then it gives you no possibilities. Today, a lot of people travel to Sweden and Finland and spend a lot of money to strengthen their business there, of course. We don't have to protect ourselves in the heel. We have to have a reasonable protection of Norwegian nature, but we also have to think nourishment and let these two things go hand in hand. We must have a predatory policy that allows us to have buffs both inside the fence and out in the woods. This gives a cultural landscape that we can be proud of, and that tourists would like to see. Unless predators will also be very interested in those who want to buy a hunting experience. With today's predatory policy, it has become less expensive to hunt. Hunting with a stray dog is impossible, especially in border areas against Sweden, such as in Hedmark. We also need to soften the building law so that it is possible to use e.g. an old barn for overnight stays and course activities etc. Today the legislation is so strict that the possibilities are few. In addition, fees have become so high that the money often disappears from measures that provide a relatively low yield. In Norway, we also have an infrastructure that has been demolished for many years. If tourists are to get into the districts, there must be a lot of investment in, among other things. better roads and rail. We must also reduce taxes and taxes, in the opinion of the Committee on Advancement. This, of course, applies not only to the agricultural and tourism combination, but to everything. Norway is known for being an expensive country to stay in, and we need to change that. We must also have agricultural legislation that strengthens active ownership. whether it is a personal enterprise or, for example: an AS, this has to be equivalent. It is important that there is room for discretion, and not least local adaptation, in matters dealt with by the administration under agricultural legislation. In the case of land management, this must be done locally. The local population knows its territory best and can see opportunities better than the higher ones in the system. There is also a need to invest more in the marketing of Norway as a good country to leave. The combination of agriculture and tourism should definitely be included here. Otherwise, I think that needs to change our attitude about what and what products we can offer. I think a lot of people don't see the possibilities we have. We've been going the same year after year, and I think we need a change of mind, that we need to be more proud of ourselves and of the product we can offer. We have mountains and mountains. We have lakes, rivers and fjords. We've got woods, and we've got pastures. We have a cultural landscape that can provide unique opportunities. We have old, venerable farms. We still have some buffooners. We have a rich animal life like elk, pure and bird, with much more. We have snow, rain and sun. four different seasons, which also provide opportunities. We have opportunities for a good infrastructure. Yes, we have everything, and even we don't get it. Then it has to change one more. The number of farms and farmers is decreasing, and the income is falling. It has to do something fast if we're to stop this negative trend, and preferably turn it around. As everyone knows, there are also almost 40,000 empty farms/small farms around the country. When we know that there are also as many as 400,000 Norwegians who want to buy a small farm, we have to do something about this. Among other things, there must be: it is removed with a maximum price. For the Progress Party it is much better that it lights up in the windows parts of the year than that it does not glow at all. There has to be an understanding that when a buyer and seller have agreed on a price, regardless of whether it is above or below any fare, it is a private matter, and the authorities have to deal with this. I think that only with such a change will much be done, and many branches will again be able to flourish. Today, many people buy a small use in Sweden. They use it as a holiday resort and of course they clean it up. This is not only about price, but also about a more flexible and organised regulatory framework that exists on the other side of the border. These were some considerations on how to achieve a more positive and forward-looking agriculture, where tourism and tourism can contribute to this. I am aware that there are many opportunities in this area, and that our long-term country has different opportunities, but also challenges. I think that all parties want an agriculture, but I hope that it is not just the Progress Party that will release the farmer and give the opportunities that exist within this large area. I look forward with excitement to the rest of the debate, and not least to what the Council of State will contribute. As important as getting foreign tourists here, it is to get the North to leave and to experience their own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e439	I thank the interpellant for the interpellant and perceive it as inviting him to a broad agricultural policy debate on both income conditions and property, but with particular emphasis on the possibility of developing new industries, including tourism. I believe that this is an important debate, and I am pleased that the Stortinget will also have the opportunity to discuss this again in the near future when the negotiated agricultural agreement is discussed. As far as property is concerned, I believe that freedom of choice is a valuable starting point, but that is not enough. Social considerations are important in deciding how to exploit property resources in this country. This is consideration that you can't expect the owners to take for themselves, completely. I think, for example, that if the regulations in the legislation are removed, it is facilitated that many more farm use than at present will be used as leisure property – and only as leisure property. Property law makes it possible to balance where both the interests of the owner and the interests of society have a central place, and I believe that the law we have today well maintains this balance. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is a continuous process to ensure that the law is always adapted to the challenges of our time, a process that my predecessor and I have actively addressed. Last year, the Stortinget adopted major legislative changes, including: in such a way that fewer properties were subject to the obligation of concession, dwelling and immovable property. In addition, housing rules were targeted and simplified. In winter, the price evaluation guidelines were amended in order to avoid price controls on the acquisition of built-up property unless the price exceeds 1,5 million. kr. The possibilities of a hit because of housing value were also increased. The inter-pellant believes that business across the country needs to be facilitated by less regulation. I agree that the regulation should be limited to what is actually useful, in order to contribute more to the whole country than the deregulation will lead to. Areas with more difficult production conditions and longer-distance to markets are the main beneficiaries of government regulation and subsidies. In my time, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have strongly prioritised rural agriculture, because that is what is most dependent on such organisation. It is also in many of these areas that the cultural landscape, living settlements and the potential for interaction with travel life are greatest. Furthermore, interpellant states that it is important to strengthen the potential for income in agriculture by increasing the level of freedom of production. It is my impression that the Progress Party wants to present the Norwegian farmers as more tied to hands and feet than they actually are. The production restrictions consist primarily of the quota system in milk production, where the quotas are negotiable and can be rented out, and where there is a limit on the freedom of concession in the power-feed production. Again, the regulation, together with the subsidy schemes, is intended to facilitate a more varied agriculture and a more geographically dispersed agriculture than we would have had in a more pure market solution. Through this policy, we facilitate interactions and synergies with travel life in all parts of the country in a much better way than through the free-lip option that I perceive the Progress Party stands for. I believe that the state-of-the-art BU funds are key instruments for strengthening tourism activity in agriculture. In the course of the year's agricultural negotiations, 2011 saw the commitment to increase the provision of such funds by 26.5 million. kr, so that the total amount is 444.5 million. kr. These means have a two-part purpose. They shall contribute to the development of new industrial activities on agricultural property and contribute to the development and modernisation of traditional agriculture. By investing in new industries, including: through the BU funds, the element of alternative employment in agriculture may be increased. This may lead to the long-term strengthening of primary production and housing in the districts. I agree with the interpellant that it is important to facilitate the use of farms for other industrial activities, including tourism. The Government’s tourism strategy shall ensure increased value creation and profitability and viable districts through multiple jobs and not least the development of Norway as a sustainable travel destination. The contribution of agriculture includes, inter alia: together under the Green Travel Development Programme. During the agricultural negotiations of the year, the parties agreed that the investment under this programme should be continued by 18 million. kr in 2011. The programme aims to develop the built-up travel life and Norway as travel destinations for both domestic and foreign travellers. The programme is based on cooperation on, inter alia: tourism related to protected areas, the design of a mountain policy, the natural heritage and cultural heritage value creation programmes and the development of a national strategy for the pilgrimage. Concepts for local and regional parks and selected cultural landscapes are also being worked on. An important instrument to facilitate new industries in agriculture is also tourism-related. Examples include Norway's state of play at the International Green Week, Development Programme for Inland Fisheries, Seating, National Tourism Routes, World Heritage Development, Fruit and Berries, Cultural Landscapes, Travel Life in the West and Food Value Creation Programme. Although programmes and initiatives may also have other objectives, tourism is a central dimension. The focus in the World Heritage Sites is, for example, on: focussed on active agriculture and landscape management, which is essential for an authentic tourism product. Participation in the International Green Week in Berlin will contribute to increasing tourist flows to Norway and knowledge of Norway and Norwegian food quality. An active interaction between the food and travel industries has been established. The event is a profiling arena for agriculture, and the annual evaluations of the action show that Norwegian participation contributes to a good profile of Norwegian food and travel life. This event is also in many ways a good network for Norwegian participants. During this year's agricultural negotiations, it is proposed to set a figure of 4 million. kr for 2011 for the Inland Development Programme. The Programme shall develop a comprehensive public policy in the field of inland fisheries, in order to ensure that fishing activities, domestic fish farming and fishing tourism become three well-functioning industries. In the 2009 agricultural structure, it was further decided to launch a three-year project, called ‘Food along national tourist roads’, with a total of 6 million. kr. The aim of the project is to increase agricultural industrial development in food, tourism and tourism, a work that takes place in cooperation with the State Road Administration and the municipalities and county councils concerned. I want tourists coming to Norway to enjoy Norwegian food and drink, and that this will be a major part of the experience of the Norwegian visit. In order to develop local food specialities, we have worked with this through work within the Value Creation Programme for Food. This programme contributes, inter alia, to: with support for tourism businesses which have food specialities on the menu through agreements with local producers. The programme ends in 2010, but in the course of the year's agricultural negotiations, there is agreement to continue the initiative in a separate development programme for food specialities from Norwegian agriculture, with a total provision of 62 million. kr in 2011. In order to take care of the highest food taxes in Norway, we have developed through the ‘Protected Names’ label a legal protection for product names of agricultural food, fish and fishery products of special geographical origin, tradition and distinctive character. The aim of the scheme is to contribute to the development of nutrition and increased value creation in Norwegian food production and to ensure reliable information for consumers. The above measures are examples of drug use, instruments that show visible results in urban travel today. I am convinced that there is a large and still unsolved potential in this area, and I want to go into this in more detail in the Communication to the European Council on Agriculture and Food Policy which is now under way. I would like to add that the ordinary travel effort has to be seen in the context of other initiatives that can generate increased incomes in agriculture. Examples of this are different Inn on Tunet measures. The tuna is the agricultural supply of care, learning and activities in the agricultural environment. Today, around 800 farms have developed such offers. These are targeted at young people who are struggling with school motivation, children and young people with follow-up needs through child protection, people in psychiatry and dementia — to name some groups who may benefit and enjoy an organised farm-related scheme. These offers imply that agriculture contributes to meeting important societal needs. The government's going through Inn on the tunet-lift 18 million. NOK over three years to make the offers available to more than one. The Inn Action Plan on Tuna 2007 has provided an important basis for systematic work on the development and quality assurance of the offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e471	I thank the Council of State for the article. It was to the extent that a concreteization of things as they are today, and it didn't, at least as I see it, give any special promise that the future would be something better. We probably read all of these nations on Thursday. There was something on both the front page and a little bit inside the paper about what the number of farms will look like in the future, and I want to help make that change not as gloomy as the nation described. I guess I didn't hear that much about it in the State Council articles here. Clearly, we need to strengthen agriculture, and we need to strengthen the individual farmer's right of self-determination over the area and the building mass that he has. I understand at the Council of State that the government, with the Council of State at the head, will continue to be in charge of individual farming, the possibilities of individual farming, and what individual farmers should do. The existence of some measures today is well and good, but more needs to be done to facilitate the volunteering and ingenuity of the individual farmer. It is also difficult to have legislation for the whole country. I envisioned in my article how Norway looks, how unique it is, how different it is, and how many different opportunities each part of the country has — but also challenges, of course. It does not help with legislation that may take care of parts of Norway when some other parts of Norway fall outside. It is not as easy to run anything in North Norway as it might be in Eastern Europe – and vice versa. That's where we have to look at the possibilities that exist. Finally – it is possible that I say something more – you can ask the Council of State if he is satisfied with the current situation, if the Council of State really wants to do something to improve the current situation. That's what this interpellation really is about, that you see possibilities. It's okay to give a few million here and a few million there. Economics is one thing, but a law and a regulation are probably so important. I mentioned motor travel in the field. It was not mentioned by the Council of State. I'm calling for that. I talked about predators. There was no mention of that either. And there are many, many other things that will also affect the daily lives and opportunities of the individual farmer – as I said, developing the opportunities you have. If young people are going to take over after their parents, it's not enough to keep up the farming that Mom and Dad have been doing. Youth today will have more leisure time, they will make more money, and they will have a working day that is more concrete than today's work is on the individual farm. I'm calling for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e484	The interpellant asks if I am satisfied with today's situation. Yes, I am very pleased that we have managed to reverse a historically poor income development in agriculture in recent years, that we have contributed to the fact that agriculture now has significantly higher incomes, and that we have an income development where one has to go back to the 1970s to see something similar over time. But I'm not satisfied with the departure from agriculture, I'll be honest to say. At the same time, I would like to stress that, over the years we have been in government now, the withdrawal from agriculture has been significantly reduced. And it is quite obvious that the take-off would have increased if we had used the policy of the inter-pellant party, the Progress Party, for Norwegian agriculture. I notice that the interpellant is calling for the deregulation of the law: removal of residence, compulsory concession, price control, oderrechts etc. That's what he means. The purpose of these rules in the field of property policy is to ensure entrepreneurial income, to ensure residence and to ensure the preservation of living areas. This, I think, is the goal we have in common, but it's quite clear that there are different opinions about how we're going to achieve these goals. To a large extent, the interpellant talks about replacing the Community solutions for which legislation is aimed with the individual's freedom to decide for himself. I would just like to warn against the changes in the legislation that are being emphasised here that you want. I believe that the laws, with the changes that were made last year, provide a good starting point for the policy that I have outlined in detail today. I also perceive that there is a great deal of upsurge in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian policy on this, although the Progress Party probably does not agree. Of course, even if the instruments are reasonably good, their active use is required in order to secure a living settlement. Fortunately, many today want to participate in rural traditions and living conditions. Studies show that close to 400,000, as the interpellant stressed, can expect to buy a small use. Many people want to buy a farm to live there, while others want to use it as a cabin or a leisure home. Many people want something more or nothing than the current market can offer evenly over. They want what we can call a lifestyle property, which is more than an empty but less than a full farm. They want flower meadows and pastures, they want to combine farming with other industries. Such attitudes are important and should be taken into account when designing policies. This requires a nuance of political thinking. That's why we've also changed property law in recent times, because we've changed the boundaries of residential and concession obligations, so that many more properties are now exempt from the regulations that are important for the larger farms in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e497	There's going to be some repetition in my post of what the Council of State has said in it, but you might say that a good thing can't be said too often. Travel is one of the five main economic policy areas of this government. In December 2007, the government presented a strategy for the tourism industry with a focus on value creation, districts and the environment. Soria Moria says: ‘The government will further develop Norway as a destination for tourism, based on Norway’s natural and cultural resources.’ The realisation of these resources is a prerequisite for the positive development of the tourism industry in the future. The government has done a lot, and will do a lot, to contribute to economic development across the country and ensure that the total resources related to Norwegian farms are put into use. Among other things, an overall strategy has been developed for the development of nutrition by the name of Making the country into use! The investment in tourism, food, bioenergy, wood, Intning on the tuna, which has been mentioned, inland fishing, which has also been mentioned, and organic farming is an example of action. Then I think the Progress Party has a very narrow approach to this area when they're almost just talking about strengthening ownership and about what the Advance Party seems to be the only gratifying thing in most areas, namely lower taxes. There is a close link between a living agriculture, living settlements and travel. What is it that tourists come to Norway to experience and see? Is there overgrown landscape with so-called green tunnels that you can't see the amazing landscape we have in our country? The peculiarity we have with live settlements and animals grazing all over the country, that's what tourists will see. This government has seen that this is a big challenge, and we're doing something about it. We want to do something about it. The initiative on travel has been a red thread in the government’s industrial policy. And although the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has the overall responsibility for the tourism industry, there are many important travel matters that also come under other departments, for example. bet on the national tourist roads, which is a cooperation between the State Road Administration and the municipalities and counties concerned. What we call Green Travel Life is the contribution of agriculture to the follow-up of the government's travel life strategy for increased profitability and value creation, viable districts through more jobs and the development of Norway to a sustainable destination. In this year’s agricultural settlement, there are a number of measures agreed by the parties, including: to strengthen the green travel life. Green tourism is now an established and positive concept, covering a number of tourism-related activities in the food and agricultural fields, including: bet it's $18 million. on the Green Travel Development Programme. There is also a separate project called ‘Food along national tourist roads’, which also aims to increase the agricultural economic development of food, tourism and tourism. Then we have our beautiful World Heritage Sites with the Vega Islands, the Geiranger fjord and the Near Island fjord. The cultural landscape in these areas is actively profiled when we market Norway abroad. I am therefore very pleased that the parties to the agricultural settlement agree to continue this important investment in cultural landscape management in these areas. I also want to mention specifically the investment in fruit, berries and the cultural landscape in the West, which is going to go over five years. The main objective here is to develop salesable products related to tourism, based on agricultural resources. The interpellant says that the individual himself should be given the freedom to dispose of his own property as he wishes. What's the result of that? That's when the duty to drive is gone. In addition, the Progress Party will also remove 7 billion. kr of the agricultural aid. So how much use is left? Most likely, we will then experience great relocation and abandoned use around the districts. The measures proposed by the Progress Party are, in my view, wrong medicine, and in addition, it is a medicine that the industry itself absolutely does not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e526	It is a bit remarkable to hear the representatives of the Workers' Party and the State Council talk about politics and how wrong it will be when the Progress Party comes to power. As you talk, you'd think the Progress Party had been running this policy for a long time. But on the other hand, it is the government with the Senterpartiet in the head that has led to a decline in agriculture. The representative of the Workers' Party also warmly talks about niche products, including: berries, and others who are allowed to make wine for sale. But as we are all aware, the legislation that stops it is. I have registered that State Council Breck is for doing so, but he is being countered by his government colleagues from the Workers' Party. There is also a bill to open it up. So we'll see how far there is between life and learning at the Workers' Party when they're going to vote. The Progress Party wants an agricultural policy from political governance to see the farmer as a self-employed person in line with other small business managers and small business owners. The farmer's task is to produce good, healthy and safe food and not to stand in the hands of the bureaucrats in the departments. The Progress Party will facilitate food production that can give tourism and individual farmers growth in Norway. Norwegian farmers need to have a simpler regulatory framework to deal with and to a greater extent to be released from public governance. The work on simplifying and modifying agriculture has stopped completely with the red-green government. We believe it is time for the government to show the power of action, and give farmers the opportunity to decide for themselves how they will operate their own business. Travel life is one of Norway’s largest industries and a growing industry. It is nature, culture, local food and activities the tourists want. Agriculture plays a very important role in travel and is a central provider of travel life products that the market wants. Many farmers have travel life as an important additional occupation on the farm. The Progress Party believes that there should be a commitment to this industry and that there are great opportunities for development here. In order to promote agro-tourism, there is cooperation with many tourism actors, such as: NHO Travel Life, Your Tour, Innovation Norway and Hanen etc. It is necessary to facilitate tourism activities involving both inland and outdoor cultural landscapes. Working together with other tourism actors can identify travel patterns, overnight stays, important destinations and tourist choices, as well as other themes, such as cultural memories and national tourist paths. Another important challenge will be to identify causes, impacts and patterns of the re-growth of the cultural landscape and to model future changes. In this context, it will include, inter alia: be central to linking local landscape studies with national landscape change probability models. In addition, it will be necessary to consider whether and to what extent re-growth and decay in the cultural landscape actually have an impact on tourism patterns or how tourists experience the landscape and the journey. This requires a qualitative approach, focusing on the knowledge and understanding of the cultural landscape of tourists. Bringing together tourism actors such as the NHO Travel Life will facilitate cooperation that will help improve travel life infrastructure, future marketing, landscape management and strengthen cooperation between different interest groups in the cultural landscape. The Progress Party will have a new agricultural policy that will provide a basis for robust Norwegian food production across the country as an offensive face to international competition and exploit the export potential of free food trade and further develop agricultural travel. The Progress Party believes that the socialist agricultural governance system is an obstacle to developing food production in the direction of consumer considerations, and we see that every day. The Progress Party considers it urgent to introduce a new agricultural policy through an entrepreneurship model where private ownership and industrial freedom are at the centre. The Progress Party believes that it is important to distinguish industrial policy from district policy through full ownership and the right to control own production. As the only party, we are creating a system of a billion in agricultural conversion aid, which will contribute to conversion and innovation, and which will give the farmer the opportunity to switch to, among other things. travel life. The Party considers that the agricultural industry must find its place among the usual production seeking a market in the most competitive environment. We need to facilitate modern framework conditions that will create new opportunities for food production and tourism throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e552	Thank you to the interpellant, Bredvold, who addresses a matter of great importance to agriculture and the tourism industry. Both industries provide good jobs and positive ring-effects for small and large municipalities throughout our long-term country. It is therefore very unfortunate that the Council of State intensifies the obligation to live and operate and introduce a ban on sharing in the law when 35,000 farms are uninhabited as a result of a low level of flexibility, as the inter-pellant sketches. Many villages experience great relocation, ghost farms create strife and municipalities and owners argue about who is responsible for the rotting of houses and pastures again. To stop the relocation, the Right will make it easier to operate other activities alongside agriculture. We want to simplify the Law on Planning and Building, the Law on Beach and the rules on Outlanding. As a self-employed person, the farmer is now in a worse condition than a limited company. The right has proposed the establishment of an investment fund, where traders in individual undertakings may increase their activity by means which are only taxed as corporate tax. The Fund will have a significant economic impact on both agriculture and the tourism industry, both of which are industries with many individual enterprises. The right considers it easy to start, operate and own business in Norway. A clear objective must therefore be to reduce administrative costs and the form field. Most travel businesses consist of many small and medium-sized generation enterprises, where the whole family very often spends their leisure time and savings on the company. Good equity is important in order to be able to renew itself in relation to sharp competition in the market. Both property taxes and inheritance taxes hard hit the equity of generation businesses. The right-hand side therefore believes that both parts must be removed. We also believe that it is important to take action to make the law more flexible, so as to facilitate the operation of farms and other industrial activities through fewer regulations. Several decisions in land management must be taken locally, and the individual entitled to ownership must be given greater freedom of sea to dispose of their own property. The potential for further development of farm tourism and contributing to the creation of more jobs and income opportunities for agriculture is undoubtedly high. At the same time, we know that the many specific rules that currently apply to agricultural properties help to make Norwegian farmers poorer, so that the ability to invest and risk in the industry is significantly reduced. Last night we were able to read in the nations that niche food producers criticise Innovation Norway's work related to farm food. The well-known founder Inger Rosenfeldt, who produces cheese and stands behind the Nisjemat success The Blind Ku, says to the nations that «she hardly knows anyone who has not pledged the house to the pipe to finance increased production after establishing its product». This is serious. There is good reason to go closer to Innovation in Norway. I hope that the Council of State takes the criticism seriously and takes it into account in the evaluation that is now being carried out in relation to Innovation Norway. First looking at the framework conditions for agriculture and tourism, we must not forget the need for good infrastructure and predictability in terms of accessibility. Repeatedly I have taken up the many challenges that Fjord-Norway has faced with its prestigious historic hotel. Generation hotels are an important part of our culture and go hand in hand with small-scale agriculture in the fjords. We experience more and more local food served in local, small hotels when we visit them. I think that's incredibly charming, and I hope we can take care of that. Accessibility is important — not only for short, hectic summer months, but also during the shoulder season, during the parts of the year where the roads are closed by snow and rock. The Geiranger World Heritage Site, which lives on tourism, is one of several places that are struggling with winter roads. This leads to lost income for the tourism industry, and it is not at all worth a world heritage area. So once again, I would like to ask the Council of State and the Government to think across the departments concerned, take joint responsibility and pledge to ensure full year's access to our many sights, and not least to our World Heritage Sites. It will also serve small-scale agriculture and take care of the cultural landscape throughout the country. Perhaps the World Heritage Site should be linked to national tourist roads, where the country takes a far greater responsibility than what is being done with these roads today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e585	It's an important matter the interpellant takes up. SV is a survey of living rural areas and an agricultural sector that can take place in all parts of the country, including the West and West Agder where I come from. We are occupied with agriculture that can survive under difficult natural constraints, so that one can exploit the natural resources that Norway has and that are important in global food production. I was on weekends at a seminar where a presented research findings that showed that the small customs could have equal incomes per year. annual works used by the major ones. This shows that in order to maintain the width of Norwegian agriculture, to take care of the cultivated land that we have, in order for it to continue to be cultivated, we need the part-time farmer. We need the farmer who has less gardening than what creates full employment. For this reason, it is very important, as the interpellant had in mind, that we provide an additional industry that is suitable in combination with an agriculture, suitable for a gardening that may not provide a whole year's work, or that may not provide a whole year's work to several family members who want to work on the farm. So the starting point for the interpellation is very good and very much in line with the policy that SV thinks we must pursue if we are to have living settlements, and if we are to have agriculture throughout the country. The problem is that the Progress Party only has one solution to everything. Whatever has been interpolated from the Progress Party in agricultural policy recently, there is one solution: more liberalism, less community, less solidarity. The Progress Party will have a freeway, a freeway that will depopulate many rural areas and lead to a drastic closure of agriculture in Bygde-Noreg. Norway is a varied and winding country. I come from a garden where we tend to say that it's so steep that if it was a little steeper, we could have used it on both sides. So it's quite obvious that in such a situation, there can't be the same conditions for the flatlands of the Austland as for the breakaways of the West. That's what's built into Norwegian agricultural policy. One has a variety of arable land, and for it to be cultivated, we have to have different conditions in different parts of the country. To do that, we need to have regulations. It's impossible to imagine that it could have been used on the garden I'm from, if we hadn't had the solidarity arrangements with negotiations, regulations and collective solutions that we've developed in Norway. But it's precisely these arrangements that the Progress Party wants to live. The party of progress will live the collective arrangements. The requirement to be able to operate a combination of agriculture and tourism is that it is agriculture. It is not very helpful to argue for a combination of agriculture and tourism if one has a policy that leads to a reduction in agriculture. The step-by-step game is a freeway that makes it pay for the farmer to leave the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e596	The interpellant addresses an important question. At the intersection of agriculture and tourism, there are many possibilities. The Christian People's Party wants a continued viability and diversity of agriculture. It is important to ensure scattered residence and activity throughout the country. A living agriculture prevents regrowth and preserves the cultural landscape and is attractive in terms of tourism. The tourists are fascinated by Norwegian farms that chlorinate in steep terrain down against the fjord. I think it would be a good idea to have such farms if the market-driven agricultural policy of the Progress Party were to be put into effect – then there will be little agriculture in the steep terrain. It is the combination of fjords and mountains, settlements and farms that make Norwegian agriculture very different and very exciting. Much of the basis for Norwegian travel life lies in nature. Therefore, it is important that travel life focuses not only on the benefits for travellers but also on the impact of travel life on people living in the places visited and on the value of nature, culture and community. The importance of travel needs to be addressed through local, regional and national plans and protection measures for natural areas with a view to sustainability, profitability and business. The Christian People's Party will regionalise larger parts of the instruments targeting the environment, cultural landscapes and industrial development. Large parts of travel life have been characterized by volume thinking. Large volumes have been considered essential for success. However, the competitive advantage of much of Norwegian business is high quality of collective goods, such as a large-scale nature and a living cultural landscape in a quiet environment without pollution. How these collective goods are exploited, both in travel and elsewhere, affects the quality of them. What can be rational for one activity can be detrimental to another and to society. Therefore, the use of collective goods needs to be regulated by public authorities. In order to avoid too much pressure on nature and at the same time boost the profits, some travel businesses have invested more on our shoulder seasons and harvests and that they offer several alternative tours and experiences within the same area. Innovation and migration provide economic development and free up resources that can be used for other purposes. In order to strengthen innovation and conversion, the Christian People's Party will among other things. increase access to risk capital to Innovation Norway, so that new projects include: in the field of agro-tourism, financing can be ensured. The administrative burdens on business are intended to cost enterprises about 57 billion. kr annually, over 99 pst. by enterprises are small or medium-sized. Many of these are within travel. It is important for these enterprises to be able to use the time for the core business rather than to engage in ever-increasingly new laws and regulations that weigh them down and bottle them up for competitiveness. Travel is an important industry that, in large parts of the country, is a source of value creation and a prerequisite for local activity. The Christian People's Party believes this is a forward-looking industry that makes important contributions to activity and housing in the districts. NHO Reiseliv has conducted an opinion poll among its 600 rapporteurs, councillors and municipal leaders who showed that travel life has the highest potential in Norwegian districts of all industries. According to those who have been asked, this industry has a greater potential than many so far have been able to exploit. In order to identify the tourism industry and to make it visible what action needs to be taken to make better use of the link between agriculture and tourism, the Christian People's Party has called for and made proposals for its own map on tourism. In this context, the interaction between agriculture and tourism will be an important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e619	This interpellation reminds me a little bit of another important interpellation that the representative Bredvold travelled for a while back, which went on the very great paradox of the Norwegian agricultural and district policy at 22 p.m. the agricultural properties of residential buildings are empty, while there are a number of people who want to take over them. The reason for this is, as the Left sees it, the complex and unnecessary legislation of agriculture, which many people have been involved in. This applies to the law of no part, to the prohibition of division in the law of the land, to the law of state housing, and to the law of concession. The left agrees with the interpellant that it is important to strengthen the possibility of agricultural incomes by a greater degree of freedom of production and that better provision is made to facilitate the use of farms for other activities in the field of tourism. This was important when Lars Sponheim set up as Minister of Agriculture, and this is the background for the Left’s leader Trine Skei Grande to make two proposals for cleaning up the alcohol law, so that sales of locally produced alcohol directly from the producer can be permitted, and that mention of alcoholic products may be permitted on the producers’ own websites. Both of these proposals are an attempt to clear up the unfairness of today's alcohol legislation, without undermining the wine monopoly or an alcohol policy that has a broad consensus. The left promoted a similar proposal in 2007, but this was rejected by the government parties at the time. The reason why we are proposing this again is that Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Peder Breck in the VG on 14 April this year is calling for people to be able to buy locally produced spirits, wine and beer directly from farms, small breweries and distilleries. We have also noticed that, among other things. Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade Trond Giske of the Workers' Party welcomed the proposal in the same newspaper. A concrete example is a local fruit farmer and a side producer in Hardanger who, on the one hand, has received support from Innovation Norway for the development of a page factory, including Internet pages which provide information on the company, but which, on the other hand, are required by the Social and Health Directorate not to provide information on the pages produced by the company on the same websites, as this would be contrary to the provisions of the alcohol law on alcohol advertising. I wish Council of State Breck could get into this topic here today. I heard the council talking a lot and warm about food and travel life in their article. Food and drink belong as well as known together, so I wish he could come into it in his closing post. The left will have a more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are mainly a place to live. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the purchase of small farms in order to ensure their settlement and to increase their diversity in the countryside. A few years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture carried out a project dealing with different scenarios for future rural areas. The conclusion was that there are two scenarios that stand up strongly against each other. The villages that are called the headwinds, the ones that are opposed to change, the ones that always want things to be the way they are, are the ones that go the worst with them. The other villages are those who dare to think differently and let more people go — different thinking people, with other experiences and other education. Why do people come to the villages? Well, it's to get what's the quality of the village: good space, easy access to nature and outdoor life and closer social networks. Some people are just looking for it to feel safe and cohesive. There is a need for properties and dwellings that people want to live with and for, and often in a new way – which is the theme of today’s interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e637	I thank you for the comments that have been made. I would particularly commend the Right and Left for their contributions, which I think were balanced, and where one looks at its policy instead of criticising the policy of the Progress Party, such as. SV did. I mean, if you're going to get somewhere, you have to talk a little bit about your policy. Then you have to seek some cooperation, and then you can see if you can agree on something. I am also very surprised that the Council of State says that he is very pleased, and I interpret it there that he is very pleased with the current situation and very pleased that there has been fewer farm use compared to what has been in the past. It would just be lacking – there will be fewer farms, because there is fewer farms to take off. The number of farms has been greatly reduced for several years. The number of farmers has been greatly reduced and the number of dean has decreased in the last four-year period by 141 000. That's a lot! At the same time, the number of empty farms is increasing. If you say you're very satisfied with that situation, I don't get it. Nor do I realize that you are very satisfied with the fact that you have managed to raise the economy in agriculture, when approx. half of Norway’s rapporteurs have signed a petition submitted to increase the income of the farmers. I said in my post that if there had been a civil government, there would probably have been even more working party rapporteurs, SV rapporteurs and centre party rapporteurs signed on that appeal. I note that the Central Party does not present with any representative in this debate. Maybe you don't find the discussion interesting. But I would think that this is one of the important discussions and debates we have in this room about how developments in Norwegian agriculture will be in the future. So some say -- it must be hypothetical, of course -- that if the Progress Party had been in power, it would have looked even worse. I don't think so. I don't think so. It must be better that some of the 35,000 farms that are empty had light, like it all the time. But at least it must be better that there is light some time of year than that they just expire. I do not believe that the policies of the Progress Party, with more freedom – more freedom for the individual farmer to do what he wants, with the opportunities that each farm has – will be with and depopulate the fences, on the contrary. Otherwise, I also want to say that if you talk about budgets and numbers – and you mention that the Progress Party will reduce by 7 billion. kr – it must also be mentioned in the name of all justice that there will be 11⁄2 billion. kr in means of conversion, there will be lower taxes and taxes, less regulation, etc. Then I also record that the position, with the Council of State, does not mention anything about the motor traffic law or predators in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e656	I too would like to thank you for the debate and for this interpellation. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of seeing the whole of agricultural policy. I think in a sense that a lot of people see things and not completely. Property law, necessary regulations, grant schemes and various investments must be seen together. Agricultural policy shall ensure the resource base for agricultural production. It shall develop the knowledge base and contribute to the creation and employment of value added and employment throughout the country, based on agriculture, food production and agricultural products. In this context, I would like to stress that agriculture constitutes the support bar for housing and nutrition in many rural areas and has a very special role for the district-based tourism industry. The government's agricultural and food policy is a policy in which social and economic considerations are seen in the context. This stands in direct contrast to the one-sided focus of the Advance Party. ownership of landowners and removal of regulations. It is such that we must be able to take seriously the policies of the Progress Party. The Progress Party wants us not to discuss their proposals, but for many, many years they have proposed almost a halve of agricultural transfers – 7 billion. kr at the last crossroads – and then they spice the bitter apple with a conversion supplement of NOK 11⁄2 billion. It is clear that it will be the most serious attack we have seen on agriculture throughout the country since the 1930s. We experienced the policy of the Progressive Party in the 1930s. Then there was a wave of bankruptcy all over the country, and so will we. Then I'd like to say to the representative of Tjældal that I fully agree with him when he says that it is good to cooperate with NHO Travel Life, HSH Travel Life and other organisations. Just to underline it: these organisations are a strong supporter of the current agricultural policy, ensuring agriculture throughout the country, securing cultural landscapes, etc. I also have a comment on the representative Røbekk Nørve, who refers to a look-up in the nation where she claims that someone has stated that they have pledged the house over the pipe. My point is that Innovation Norway must, of course, make demands on those to whom they contribute funds. I believe that the Right also agrees. I hope it cannot be understood so that the Right wants us to remove the requirements that exist today, to the founders. It will also be the case that some founders actually have to go bankrupt – it is part of the game of setting up new businesses. Then I would also like to stress to the Tende that when she says that the Left is concerned with a greater degree of freedom of production, I wonder if it is for power-feeding production. If there are milk quotas, should we have greater freedom of production there? Otherwise, I'm going to replicate that when it comes to alcohol law, we're going to work on that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e673	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e687	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3584]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e703	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3584]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e719	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3584]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e735	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e751	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e759	The size of the case goes to voting on case No. 3-7 on today's map. In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e768	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e775	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e782	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e789	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e796	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e810	Referral case No It is proposed that the decision be taken immediately in accordance with the provisions of Article 391. Paragraph 28, third paragraph, point (d) of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal involves a new vote on the matter under consideration yesterday, cf. Inner. 275 S, which had an outcome that is not in line with the real situation in Stortinget. When a proposal for a representative has been submitted with the intention of correcting the error that has arisen, the President will refer to Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for the following: ‘When a case is finally settled, it may not be brought back, or reopened in the same collection. However, if it is necessary, or if the Government promotes a proposal or notification within the same area of the Grand Duchy, the Grand Duchy may take a decision to that effect, provided that the matter is again dealt with by the Committee.’;» In the light of the technical error which led to the non-registration of a vote and which would lead to the equality of votes and consequently to the re-examination of the matter at a later meeting, the President will ask for the approval of the Storting to waive the requirement of Section 47 on new committee procedure. – The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e824	From the Right we are prepared to comply with the wish of the presidency, but I would nevertheless refer to a letter that today went from the whipper of the Progress Party and the whipper of the Right, where we asked for proof that there was an error with the voting system yesterday. It is shown further in this Document No. The 8-proposal for the replacement, and I am familiar with the right was also underrepresented during yesterday's vote. So I find the very reason something thin compared to the desire to take it up. We've nevertheless accepted it, because we recognize that the majority of the Biggest is the majority of the Biggest, and that it would be possible to address the matter in the revised national budget or in a different context. But we're kind of jumping on the reason here, and I want to ask that there is evidence that there was actually something wrong with the voting system yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e831	I also agree that there is something strange in the design of the representative proposal, because one refers to a dividend scheme that Stortinget is not familiar with in many ways. But the Progress Party also feels it is important and right to be neat and honest in such a kind of case that we are dealing with today, and therefore we respect the fact that the Stortinget is put together by a majority, and the case yesterday did not express the facts. However, I would like to point out that this is the second time in this period that there have been cases where there has been sharp voting, and where it has been found – at least there has been – that there have been technical errors with the voting system. It's nice that it happens the times it's sharp voting. That is why a letter has also been sent to provide evidence of these things. Perhaps it is now necessary to put in place the system of voting at the end of the meeting before going to the normal voting procedure, in order to ensure that the representatives present in the Chamber are the representatives who will be present in the Chamber and that the technical system is working as it should. It is not a good thing for Stortinget that we experienced what we experienced yesterday, which we have also experienced once before in this period. Here you have to find a solution that will make sure it doesn't happen again. Then I also think it is in the right place to go into the matter. The whole debate yesterday was that all the parties from this pulpit were very clear that they wanted to lift the submarine U-864 outside of Fedje. But today I'm not as sure that's what you really mean. Yesterday, the Stortinget adopted a majority decision to lift the submarine in 2011, while today a new decision is to be taken that is contrary to it, and to ensure that the submarine is not lifted in 2011. Then you'll see once in the future if the submarine will be raised or not. I think it's a little special. Now you also remove the money from the cancellation of the submarine. I think that's special when we know that the government of Mongstad doesn't discuss money or other things. Then you run a race, which is now for discussion in a couple of committees, and that's not the same discussion there. There's just driving on, and then we'll see where it ends up. But in the case of the submarine, you have to stop, and then you have to figure out and evaluate, and then you get to see where we're going. The problem now is likely to be that the consequence of the decision that the majority will be voting for today is that something could happen at the earliest in view of the lifting of the submarine outside Fedje in 2014, due to new investigations, new tenders, etc., and not least that it can only be raised for a certain period of the year, i.e. during summer time. I then record that the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party is absent in the clearing today, just as she was absent in the debate on the clearing yesterday. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the motion for a resolution because we had a different proposal for a decision yesterday. That is why we believe it is right to vote against the proposal now before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e844	The left had the right number of representatives present yesterday. We always have. It's easy to keep track of, and that's not because we have little to do. What I think is the most frightening thing about what has been said today is that we have a voting facility in the Norwegian Parliament that has such faults. That's what you usually live with, but sometimes you discover when the voting is tight. I don't think that's acceptable. In fact, I believe that the presidency must take on board very quickly, because we cannot have it in the Norwegian Parliament. I hope that it is taken care of. With regard to the matter itself, it is clear that the wording of the decision today should perhaps open up a new debate on the matter before proceeding. But for the left, the position we have is very clear. We're going to vote for treatment. I am not in favour of political fictitiousness, which is about not letting the people's will get through, and the people's will is clearly expressed under you in today's resolution. That's what the people have to take into account. We're going to vote in favour of treatment, but we're going to vote against the decision. I believe that today's incarceration does not speak for the benefit of either the environment or all the people who live near this submarine wreck.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e853	The President will recall that we are now debating the matter itself, whether the proposal is to be examined now, and will not go into the substance of the matter, as the President understands. The floor will be given to the representative, Mr Halleraker. The President is prepared to vote after the floor has been given by Mr Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e860	It goes on the very process of the matter. I expected the president to comment on Mr. Sanner's statement that there was also a lack of a representative from the Right, who, of course, makes the functioning of the voting system or not – with one representative – less valid. I think maybe you should get a comment on that before we went on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e865	The President will say there are two things that the Presidency will address. One is documentation, of course it will be addressed in the presidency. The second is the installation. Representatives can look forward to the arrival of a new plant during the harvest. Hopefully it'll be much better than today's. So hopefully we don't get into the kind of situation that we're in right now. There are no objections to the President's proposal that the requirement of Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure on the re-committee procedure be waived, and it is deemed to be adopted. The President will then propose that the draft representative under Minutes No. 391 shall be brought to the attention of the Court of First Instance without delay, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 391. Paragraph 28, third paragraph, point (d) of the Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I Decision of the Trustee on 31 May 2010 in the context of the examination of the Innst. 275 S from the Transport and Communications Committee on the handling of the submarine U-864 – is hereby repealed. [[2009-2010]] II The State budget for 2010 is amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrons1062Coastal costs:21Special operating expenses, reduced by 620,000 from NOK 740 700 000 to NOK 120 700 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-01.ana.ud2652e936	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
