ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e53	Mr Solvik-Olsen will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e56	I have delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and myself on a big message about the state of energy of the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e61	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e64	On behalf of the representatives of Ib Thomsen, Jan Tore Sanner, Dagrun Eriksen, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make proposals for extending the tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e69	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e72	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting representative proposals on changes in the calculation method for the social benefit of investments in road and rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e77	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e80	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Erna Solberg, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Frank Bakke Jensen, Ingjerd Schou and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the right and obligation to continue training for teachers and more flexible study offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e102	Norway is today a significant player in the energy sector despite being a relatively small country in the world. Of course, this is mainly due to our activity in the oil and gas sector, which means that we have just received this important position that Norway has. When I promoted this interpellation that we now have for treatment in the hall – it was otherwise in April – one probably did not know that it was going to be as timely as it has now suddenly become, related to the situation in Statkraft. Oil, gas and coal are also going to be the dominant energy source in the future, and it's going to be the case for very many years. However, there is now a strong will, both nationally and internationally, to invest in building up significant amounts of renewable energy. In this context, there are many measures and investments to be implemented. This is true in Norway, but not least internationally — there are relatively large hydropower deployments in India, Nepal, South America, etc. In addition, there are a number of other types of projects in wave power, tidal power, small-scale power plants, onshore and offshore wind farms etc. In the context of the large investments, and therefore the business opportunities offered by this, it is important that we, as authorities, provide Norwegian companies with good framework conditions and, in particular, opportunities for development to participate in these developments. In Norway today, we have several robust and good companies that are market-leading in their renewable energy segments. This applies, of course, to private and partly public, but also to purely state-owned companies, such as Statnett and Statkraft. State power has evolved over time to become one of the leading renewable energy companies in Europe and has a planned investment portfolio of 90 billion. until 2015. If both Statnett and Statkraft are to be able to meet the plans they have for the future, these companies will need significant amounts of fresh capital in the years to come. There's, of course, several ways to fix this. After all, companies may have to finance all their investments, with the additional costs and uncertainties that this provides for future profitability in projects. They may be partially privatised so that other actors can bring in fresh capital. The State may choose to sell entirely out of the companies, thereby losing control of both the head office position and not least the bet areas, or choosing another solution in which the state changes its dividend policy towards the companies and in addition adds fresh capital to the companies, so that planned and commercially profitable investments can be realised without having to reduce equity too much. What becomes the final solution is up to the owner – that is, in this context, the Minister of Industry and the Government. They have to decide this. Of course, it's because the government has a majority behind it in the Storting. It should be relatively obvious what is going to be and should be the solution to the ownership of the companies. This will of course be that both Statnett and Statkraft will continue to be whole-time state companies. What is very unclear, however, is how the State that owns in the future will use its ownership of these solid and important Norwegian companies to enable them to continue to make profitable investments both at home and outside. Not least is the question of what to do with dividend policy and the possible introduction of new capital. I just want to make it clear that I am not asking questions about whether these companies have a safe and sound economy or not, because they do. These are very robust companies. But what I'm referring to is that if they're going to be able to continue to evolve in the future, we have to do something. The question is how the state will act as owner of these companies. This is reflected in the book published by the government in September 2008, as a result of the treatment of St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership, cf. Inner. S. No 163 for 2006-2007, with then Minister of Economic Affairs Sylvia Brustad in charge. In this book, ‘Government’s Ownership Policy’, it says among other things: the following to read about Statkraft – and it reads on page 37, so that you can easily find out: ‘State power shall work within the EEA legislation to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power supply.’;» It also says: ‘Further, State ownership ensures head office functions and development of the Norwegian environment of competence in energy production in general and environmentally friendly energy production in particular, including new renewable energy production.’ Furthermore, it's also interesting to read what's in the new, revised version of the Soria Moria statement. I quote from there, under the bullet point of the chapter on renewable energy. The Government will: ‘to facilitate the further development of State power as a renewable energy engine’. This is very much in line with what Statnett and Statkraft have done, and not least what they plan to do in the future. But, as I said, for this, of course, capital is needed. On 4 February 2009, the government sent a request for a capital injection of 8 billion. kr, in the light of the plans of the company, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. It is with respect to report something strange that a full-time state company, now that 16 months after this request was sent, has not yet received a response from the ministry, especially when the same owner during this period has not had problems collecting very many billions of dividends from the same company. In the period 2006-2009, dividends of NOK 29 776000000 have been collected from the State. I hope that the Council of State in its statement will tell the Stortinget that Statkraft will receive an answer to its request for capital injection within the Council of State to take a vacation, and I also hope that the Council of State will say something about what it intends to do about the state's position as owner of these companies, not least whether he intends to put himself on a slightly different line in terms of the dividend policy of the company. Because it is obvious that there needs to be a slightly different line of profit from these companies if one really believes that these – both Statnett and Statkraft – should have a role as renewable energy developers and ensure that they are able to expand both outdoors and at home. Because if they're going to help maintain their skills in Norway, we just need these environments. It is then necessary to have a clearer feedback that these companies will be able to retain more of the value created by these companies. Because it's profitable companies, they make good investments, and also the projects that are planned, clearly show that there is a great potential here in the future. I am therefore looking forward to the Council of State's response, and not least I am very excited if the Council of State will now be able to promise Statkraft an answer to the enquiry that has been sent, because it is unacceptable that it will take more than 16 months to get an answer to such a request.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e139	The President assumes that it is the interpellant who has forgotten his glasses here again – but the political view is probably the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e142	It was obvious that the interpellant had put its glasses back, it has also been my impression sometimes – it was a joke! We have an important item on the agenda that affects many aspects of state ownership. In my view, the concrete question of whether Statkraft will receive a capital injection is one that should be dealt with differently from through an interpellation in the Stortinget. Dividend policy is dealt with annually by the Storting through the State budget, but it is a fine opportunity to discuss state ownership and view it a little more widely. As the interpellant points out, this is also in strong contact with energy policy. This is a company that plays a major role in Norway’s energy supply, in power generation and security of supply, in new renewable energy and in infrastructure upgrading. I would like to make it clear that energy policy in general falls within the responsibility of the oil and energy minister, and that this also applies to the administration of state ownership in Statnet in particular, to which the interpellant also refers. Let me first point out that the organisation of the administration of state ownership is well described in the 2006 ownership notification, in which the Stortinget joined the main points in spring 2007. This implies that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade is primarily responsible for the management of the State’s ownership of commercial companies to be operated on a commercial basis. State power is included as one of these companies. The management of the country's ownership of companies with clear sectoral policy objectives, such as Statnett and Norsk Tipping, falls within the respective departments which also have sectoral responsibilities in this area. As explained in the latest ownership announcement, the fundamental objective of State ownership is to contribute to a good long-term return through an industrial development of the companies. In addition, several of these companies have been informed that state ownership ensures that key head office functions and competences environments remain located in Norway. In the case of Statkraft, which is one of the companies to which the interpellant points and where the responsibility for the management of State ownership falls within the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, this is a company in which the government and the Storkting have set specific objectives with the State ownership of the company, in addition to providing a good financial return. These are objectives to be applied for within the commercial framework applicable to the company. It is expected that the development and upgrading of environmentally friendly power generation will be at the forefront and that one will be among the first to use new environmentally friendly energy sources. In addition, the EEA legislation shall work to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power supplies. Whatever the purpose of ownership in the various commercial companies, the government is a professional owner, who has a conscious relationship with the challenges and issues facing the companies. This means, among other things: that we constantly look at the equity situation of the companies to assess this against the objectives of government ownership, and that the government and the departments responsible assess and communicate their dividend expectations to the boards of companies annually. Through its support for capital expansion in SAS and DnB NOR and for the purchase of Norsk Hydro in Brazil, the government has demonstrated such a capacity and willingness to actively contribute to the implementation of strategic and economical approaches to facilitate the industrial development of companies over time. Also, when the state entered Aker, there was such a thinking that lay behind it. I don't remember any cheers from the interpellant or his party when the state there showed the power to act to secure Norwegian ownership. As the interpellant points out, Statkraft and Statnett have approached the government with a desire to strengthen the equity of the companies. The Government of Statkraft presented its strategy for 2015 to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade in February 2009. The strategy is a framework plan that sets out a strategic direction for the further development of the company. The Government has not completed the preparation of the Government's strategy and related capital needs. This is related to the substantial issue of State power’s capital increase, both in Norway and abroad, of the role of State power. In addition, the matter has significant economic and budgetary implications for the State as its owner. This does not mean that Statkraft has not received a response in the sense that 16 months have passed since we spoke to Statkraft – we are constantly talking to Statkraft, both with the leader and with the board. As far as dividend policy is concerned, since this enquiry, it has also been decided in the Grand Duchy on the yield we are going to take from State power, so that this has also been answered through political processes. I think it makes sense that we are spending the time we need to make a decision with as far-reaching consequences as in the case of State Power. These are huge billions of values, and it's not like the state, or the community, takes money from State power when we take dividends and use it for schools, care for the elderly, roads, police, railways, health care and all the good things that the surplus of State power, which goes into the state treasury, is spent on. This is the community's money. This is our money that we're going to spend, not the company's money. Then we're going to assess whether this money we're going to save – we're going to save a lot of money, often more than the Advance Party wants us to save – is better located in Statkraft or better located elsewhere. At least we have to be on a solid, safe basis if we're going to place up to 90 billion. kr – at least tens of billion more – in the company. Finally, let me be clear that the government has a conscious relationship with the strategic development of the companies in which it owns and how the companies are capitalised. I really think the interpellant glittered described how important it is that we have retained the state ownership of State power – not just as a strategic position in an eternal resource, but in fact that many billions of dollars have gone into the best of the community. We're going to be happy that there hasn't been a majority earlier in this process of privatization of State power, as someone's suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e178	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but unfortunately, the Council of State does not respond to the challenges I present in my interpellation. First, when will State power be able to get an answer to its request? I did not say in my post – the Council of State itself can go back and check in the record from my introduction here – that you are not talking to Statkraft, and I have not said that Statkraft has not heard from the state. I said the following: You have not received an answer to your request. It's something completely different. That request was sent on 4 February 2009 to Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade Sylvia Brustad. It has not been answered. Then I will correct a mistake in my post; it might have been good to use the glasses when I said it. That's 28 billion. kr you have taken from the company, and not 29 bn. kr. This way, it might look a little bit better for some people. I would like to refer to an article, among others. in Today's Business Saturday 22 May 2010. In this case, the Group Manager of State Power states the following: “It is in the nature of the matter that we have to put things aside, and that we miss opportunities, pending clarification.” This comes from the group manager. We've seen a number of different examples where you're just saying that you're going to have to get a clarification soon. It's unsustainable that you don't know what you're dealing with. I have to say that I put a question mark on why the procedure here is so slow in the department. Now, when Hydro, where the state is a partner, comes and asks for a capital injection because they're going to make a purchase in Brazil – that's on the nation's side 4.4 billion. kr – it comes very quickly to the Storting about that capital injection. When SAS was bad out here a while ago – not that it has gone over, it has happened twice in a row, at two years intervals – there was no problem for the state as a minority victory with 14 pst. to come to the Stortinget and ask for a total of billions to add equity to that company. But when a profitable company like Statkraft wants to ask for a capital injection in order to continue making profitable investments – which will enable the Minister of Industry and others in this country to also reap future income from dividends from these companies – yes, then more than 16 months will be spent on responding. I hope the Council of State can be a little more concrete in its answer, linked to when Statkraft will receive an answer to his request. I understand that the Council of State has regular contact, but it does not help, if you do not get an answer to the question you have actually asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e194	The last time I checked, there was no cheer when we came to Stortinget with the SAS issue. So if we do one or the other, it's the same criticism -- either we're too powerful to act and come too fast with issue proposals and capital injections, or it's too late. It is not the case that this money, if any, is to be put into Statkraft, does not give a return today. If the state is to invest billions in State power, it has to be taken from the state's capital stock, and I can assure you that it is managed in the best possible way for it to continuously yield returns. The question then is whether it provides better returns or more strategically important positions by being placed in Statkraft than elsewhere. That's the assessment we're doing. The proposal from the Governing Board to the Government on a long-term strategy for the development of the company is quite different from, for example: Hydro's acquisition in Brazil, which is a concrete merger and a purchase of a mining company and mining resources in Brazil. It is also very different from SAS, which was in an acute situation when it came to operating its loans and having an equity situation that was sustainable for the operation of the company. We're going to give answers to Statkraft when we've finished the case, and when we feel ready to say if the strategy that the government in Statkraft has chosen is a strategy that we, the owner of, think is right to shoot capital into.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e201	As the Minister of Trade and Industry also pointed out, the government is conscious of the strategic developments in the companies in which it owns and of how the companies are capitalised. I would also like to show that the government has shown that it has both the will and the ability to actively contribute to the development of the company when it finds this purposeful. The government will continue to be a professional owner and to pursue an active ownership policy, as well as both corporate law and the generally accepted ownership management principle provide room for this today. A main reason why the state will still be a major owner is the important role of many state-owned companies in Norway. The State will therefore have a long-term perspective on its ownership and as shareholders will contribute to its long-term growth and industrial development. Only if the company is competitive over time can it continue and further develop its role in the Norwegian economy and society. The State must therefore promote long-term value creation in the company in which it owns. The companies that are to be competitive over time must take care of considerations that go beyond short-term profit maximisation. But also in an active ownership policy, the State will normally impose market yield and yield requirements, so that a builds up among its long-term value maximisation and industrial development. We have many examples that state ownership is particularly successful, for example. Hydro and Telenor. These companies are in the front line of their territory, and have given skilled jobs to Norway as a whole. At the same time, they are important international actors. Where the State is a co-owner, I would like to point out that it is important that companies invest adequately in research and development as well as in the development of labour skills. An active ownership policy means that the state formulates clear expectations in these areas as well, and that this is communicated to the company. High ethical standards are also important in all respects to maintain the values and legitimacy of companies. This provides a significant additional dimension in addition to the general business economy requirements for returns and dividends, and supports the objective of long-term value creation and good industrial development. I mean, the state meets these conditions that I mentioned here. Governments manage important Community resources which are desirable for the benefit of the entire Norwegian community. Among other things, they manage all the power that falls back. This force had not benefited Statkraft and the Norwegian people had won the Advance Party and the Right and had had the order of return abolished. As the Minister pointed out, the strategy and capital needs of State Power are not finished. I agree with the Minister that it makes sense to use the time needed to make a decision, based on thorough assessments of the issues involved. This is the community's money, which we must be sure is being used properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e216	The Governor of Statkraft gave a great presentation of a company that is the largest in Europe in the field of renewable energy at First's Energy Seminar earlier this year. State power is the producer, and developer of water power, wind power, gas power, solar power, biopower and district heating. In other words, this company delivers environmental energy that is requested by almost all these days. The question that naturally arises then is why the government, which has set itself the goal of having the most ambitious environmental and climate goals in the world, is not supporting its own company and enabling them to realise large energy and environmental projects that are now awaited. Statkraft has great ambitions and plans an investment programme of about 90 billion. until 2015. That is why, in February 2009, Statkraft sought its owner's increased equity in order to realise the planned projects. So far, the company has not received such an answer, and it is suggested that it can be 18 months from the request until the answer is given. This is not the good management of a very valuable company for the country. No, instead, the government behaves like the rawtest capitalist and the profiter, draining the company for capital through a dividend policy that has hardly seen its like. And Statkraft has really delivered. With an annual return of 14 pst. from 1992 to 2010, this company competes in total both Norwegian stock exchange and international stock exchanges. But when the company has to give its owner – i.e. the state – a dividend of the result of from 76 pst. as the lowest, in 2004, to 133 pst. In 2008, it goes without saying that self-financing is depriving the company of greedy owners, i.e. 35 billion. kr from 2004 until 2009. This is very impressive and contrasts strongly with a owner who cannot even be able to give an answer as to whether it is possible to strengthen his own capital. It is directly embarrassing, especially in view of the fact that the Labour Party voted in favour of a dividend policy in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals in the period 2003–2004 aimed at dealing with state-owned companies in line with business or in the case of dividend policy. Has the Labour Party also changed its policy in this matter? Perhaps the Labour Party should aim to establish an action rule for dividends from State eight companies in accordance with the argument that the same party has in relation to the oil fund. 3,400 employees in State power, with activities in over 20 countries, consume a more prominent owner than they have experienced so far. This does not result in good industrial development for the company, as the ownership message suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e229	Let me first commend the interpellant for addressing a particularly important matter, and it is in particular the Statkraft discussion that has been updated here. I hear the council say that interpellation debates may not be the most appropriate forum to discuss what is going on in Statkraft, how to manage the company and how to think about the equity situation. I agree with the Council of State, but I hope that he will then agree with me that random brokering seminars down here are not a particularly suitable place for example. directors and representatives of the owners to discuss what will happen to the company. I'm not really so worried about the ability of Statkraft to carry investments with a high need for capital, because the company has a significant equity, up to 50 pst. – much bigger than what is common in Norwegian business. Many would have been happy – cheered – to have had that equity. That's not the point. What is the discussion right now is more the company's ability, and the ability of the company's bodies, to make decisions. It's worrying. I hear the Council of State says that you talk to Statkraft continuously, and I think so. I understood from his post that one of course evaluates when to spend 8 billion. kr, but I also perceived that there were still assessments of the correctness of the strategy platform – and it leads to tens of billions of investments. I see in the 2009 Statkraft Annual Report that it is written about this investment platform, and about the three parts of the platform, that one should be an industrial developer in Norway, that one should be a European turn producer, and that one should be a green global developer, as it is called. I assume that the General Assembly will decide on the annual report on 30 June. I then see that this strategy platform is actually also approved. In fact, there is nothing about the size of investments there, but nevertheless there will be a strong signal that it is approved. I also note that in the same report, or at least in the draft report, there is something about the Board's impatience in making a decision and that it is urgent for the company. So it's not like the state power's only chance to go on with this is that you get 8 billion. NOK in new equity of the country. There are several possibilities. We've pointed out these possibilities several times, and the interpellant was also involved. The company may be sub-privatised, e.g. a Statoil model, where you put something like the whole of the state, and something else that is perhaps more operationally marketable, that can be put out to stock exchange listings and to other types of ownership. Then State power has significant values in its own balance sheet. If you go back a little bit in the accounts, you'll see that there's almost no change in the balance sheet. You never sell anything in Statkraft. So you could say, no, they're going to sell some things? Yes, sometimes it may make sense to regroup their assets. It's a cross of thought that it's not being done. There are significant values in listed companies in Germany. Could they have been used in another way in the context of the new strategy? What about the significant cross-ownerships located in the Norwegian hydropower ownership? Could it be something you could regroup? What I miss is actually signals between the owners and the board that the board could also be thinking in a different direction than sitting in a year and a half and waiting for an answer to just one part of this instead of getting a «go»: think freer, be more creative, and come back with other ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e248	State power is an important company, and it is an important hub for the Norwegian state. The company guarantees the country and the community control over natural resources and large natural values in the form of a natural environment. The company also has an important function in industrial terms. The company is one of the companies with heavy industrial competence. They do things that create sub-contractors, and thus they are involved in sustaining an industrial competence in the industrial sector that Norway is totally dependent on if we are to further develop the industrial tradition we have. What is also important about Statkraft is that the energy-industrial skills they possess have in time shifted to the use of new renewable energy, environmentally friendly energy forms, and it is a development that is very important for Norway. We need an industrial development where large, heavy companies can help the forest of subcontractors gradually move into a green technology to replace the black technology on which we are building too much today. Therefore, it is very important that Statkraft has good, proper framework conditions. But it is also the case that the Ownership Notice states that Statkraft should contribute to ensuring that the return of the natural resources in our society benefits the community. The return on natural resources is not just a result of the competence company. The return on natural resources is the property of the community; it is the rent that the company has been allowed to dispose of. They have had it well, but in any case it is the result of the community's values, which must be used in the community. It is perfectly legitimate for the state to take the values of Norwegian natural resources and use them to build society, build skills, build education systems that allow Statkraft to have highly competent engineers, economists and environmental experts in the next generation. Therefore, it is very important that we have a wide debate on the balance between industrial development and social development when we are to dispose of the values for which the natural resources in Norway have laid the foundation. For the Socialist Left, it is important to strengthen state ownership, so that we have the opportunity to discuss the balance between industrial development and social development. If the Progress Party had power, we wouldn't have had a state ownership that we could have had this kind of discussion about here in this room. Interestingly, the kind of social development that the Progress Party is opposed to is the most concerned with criticising when others take responsibility for it. Otherwise it's a little interesting, I think, that Right has a different approach than the Progress Party, where they pose some challenges to the company, for example. the reasoning on whether gas in Germany is necessarily the optimal of all the arrangements into which Statekraft has entered. It's an exciting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e263	Initially, I would like to show that the red-green government has solid ambitions in energy policy. This is linked to increased power generation, security of supply, new renewable energy and infrastructure upgrading. I also refer to the supplementary answer that the Council of State gave to the interpellant. The interpellant points out that Statkraft and Statnett have approached the government with a desire to strengthen the company's equity. In the reply, the Council of State indicated that the Government has not completed the State Power Strategy and related capital requirements. This is related to the substantial issue of State power’s capital increase, both in Norway and abroad, of the role of State power. In addition, the case has significant economic consequences for the State as its owner. Governments manage significant Community resources which are desirable for the benefit of the entire Norwegian community. I would also like to point out that Statkraft is Europe's leading renewable company and a door opener in international markets with high expected growth in renewable energy, providing great opportunities for the Norwegian power cluster. Government finances and contributes to research on environmentally friendly energy in hydropower, bioenergy, marine energy and gas power. State power is also a driving force in Norway's growing clusters of energy and the environment. Renewable energy will be a major growth area in the years to come and will be crucial to meeting the climate challenges. Renewable energy also represents major industrial opportunities for Norwegian business. The Council of State indicated in its reply that the government has a conscious relationship with the strategic development of the companies in which it owns. The government, by taking part in concrete ownership arrangements, has shown its willingness and ability to actively contribute to the further development of companies, when the prerequisites for doing so are present. However, there is no contradiction between being an active and constructive owner and making thorough and time-consuming assessments of the issues involved, as in the case of State power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e275	First of all, I think it is important to have a debate that underlines the importance of the state as owner in large parts of Norwegian business. The state is the owner, and has many very important ownership positions, in many important companies. State power is one of these companies. When the debate is being briefed, in a situation where the company has asked for capital expansion, and where one has presented a strategy that has not yet been addressed, it is a little important to take into account that State power has had a formidable development in recent years. State power has gone from being a traditional manager of Norwegian natural resources for 10 to 15 years to becoming a significant player in renewable energy. It's not despite, but because of ownership. That story is completely gone for those who want to piss themselves off in this debate. It's actually like the representative from the Right, Fleet, said: This is a company with very good equity, over 50 pst. This makes the company of course have a certain room for action. The space for action has been used in recent years to take a formidable position in the field of energy production, within the renewable concept of Europe. This is both ownership and corporate development, although one could get the impression of something quite different from the approach of the Progress Party to this debate. It amazes me. I am reasonably confident – for good reason, in the light of the history of State power, as I mentioned – that the time now spent by the government and the Council of State to assess the strategy and possible future needs for capital adjustments or contributions to the company is being used precisely on the basis of the fact that the company will continue to have a significant position in European power supply, within the renewable concept. What would have made me extremely insecure, on the other hand, was if the Progress Party's approach to ownership policy were to apply. If there's something that's completely incomprehensible, it's how that party approaches the state's ownership role. It is not easy to ‘stand up in the morning’ and know what the Progress Party had to think about the exercise of ownership by the Norwegian State. In the case of a company such as Statkraft, with significant equity, with a significant development over the last ten years, a company which has taken a dominant position, the Progress Party according to action screams, while a company such as SAS, which was in a very difficult situation and which sorely needed a capital injection in order to save the values of the company, must be sold and not be given capital. This shows, in my opinion, the prominent party's clear attitude towards ownership. It's more policy-based than ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e288	State power is a very important company in an industry that I thought was very important to all parties on the Stortinget – at least it sounds like this in all energy and environmental debates. The government parties make this a debate about who should own State power and how to manage natural resources. It is true that the Progress Party would like to see that there may be private owners in Statkraft, not because one should sell out, as some claim, but because one can sell down. Why do we want this? Well, we think that by getting in private, external, owners – or rather other government, public, corporations – a few more professional owners, so that all decisions cannot be hidden from a government council as long as he finds it too good, but that he actually has to deal with a request that comes, and discuss with other owners what he really wants with the company. I find it completely pointless to hear the representative of Aasland say about today's status quo situation for equity that everything is good. With that approach, the government shouldn't have cared that Hydro came and said, we want something more with Hydro, we want to buy a mining company in order to evolve in the future. It couldn't have been done with the equity that Hydro had. Although satisfactory in the case of existing operations, it would not have been satisfactory for the company it wanted for the future. And that's the point of what State Power wants. State power is today a formidable company, probably a bit too dominant in the Norwegian market, but not large in the European market, although renewable energy is also dominant in the European context. But Statkraft wants something more. So they've said that even with good equity, we need to add more equity, and we need a different dividend policy, if we're going to be able to realize these projects. The government itself is very good at boasting that Statekraft – not the government, but Statekraft – has been awarded contracts at Doggerbank, that Statkraft buys Swedish hydropower companies, that Statekraft buys up elsewhere and among others. are part of SN Power and invests worldwide in renewable energy. But when Statkraft comes to the government, the owner, and asks if they can get more equity, because they want even more, they don't get answers. That's the problem in this context. It is strange that this government, which rhetorically claims to be the world champion in terms of climate, does something quite different in practice. So when SAS, which is a fossil-energy company, comes, when Hydro, which is primarily a fossil-energy company, comes, and when Aker, who is engaged in fossil-energy activities, they get the equity subsidies they need to stay alive and to develop their industry, but when Statkraft, which is primarily a 100pst. renewable energy company, they don't get the money. When the government claims that there is renewable energy that is the future, this is not related to the ownership policy and equity policy it pursues. We know today that Statkraft has had to withdraw from renewable energy projects around the world, precisely because equity is not strong enough for us to make the big promises it's about. With regard to the investment at Doggerbank, we're talking about hundreds of billions of dollars. Then you can't sit and say that the current equity situation is satisfactory. It is based on today's activity, but not on the activity of the future. If we want something about Statkraft, we need a much more offensive approach. The offensive approach has the Progress Party. The question is whether the government has it. Then it is not useful to talk about that if the Progress Party had been given control, we would have sold ourselves down – as if it were the end of the Norwegian hydropower situation. The hydropower resources exist independently of who is extracting them. I think it's strange that the government thinks it's okay that Italian state-owned companies and American private-owned companies should be allowed to be involved in extracting oil and gas on a Norwegian base without there being an ideological problem, while it's suddenly a huge problem if a foreign company had done the same with regard to Norwegian hydropower. Why? It is through tax policy that these resources are managed economically, and it is through concession policy that they are exploited. This is how it works on a Norwegian base, and everyone is very satisfied. In fact, the Labour Party has agreed to have more private involvement on this base, but this is not the case in the hydropower policy. It's about politics, and it's not about what's pragmatically sensible. So for us, this isn't a debate about wanting to sell out. It's a debate about getting a professionalization of ownership. This is not about how to manage Norwegian resources. This is about how State power is going to compete more internationally for becoming a large energy company, where, of course, the profits will also benefit the Norwegian population. But if you are to be able to push Statkraft further, you should listen to those who direct the company to daily, who define the needs and who come with the projects. If the government doesn't want anything more with State power than to have it as a dairy cow, as it has been so far, it's okay, but then the government should say it, rather than give the impression that State power is going to go out and find projects, but that they don't get capital to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e309	First of all, thank you for a good debate. But I have to be allowed to say that it has approached a Norway championship in subservient arguments. When you hear the representative from the Socialist Left, explain why this must take time, and that State power may have to look at its portfolio, or when the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party is trying to create the impression that the Progress Party wants to transport Footfalls from Norway to abroad, it is starting to become relatively strange. As far as I know, Norway has sold itself into, among other things, Telenor – about getting private people in. As far as I know, it is still possible to call in Norway, even though Telenor is a partially privatized company. As far as I know, Statoil continues to operate according to what the state wants, despite the fact that it has sold itself into the company. You have to not just use substituting arguments here, but try to look at the actual interpellation text and what I'm asking questions about. I ask questions about the following: When can Statkraft get an answer to his request? I have not said anything about how much equity injection should come to the company, but I have said that the country that owns must at least be able to provide a response to one of Norway's largest and most important renewable energy companies. That's what professional ownership is all about. When the representative of Terje Aasland refers to the SAS case, it is not a case of glistening ownership by the state. No, SAS is a company that has gone well ahead, where we have been asked several times to raise new capital because the company has not succeeded in the conversion processes. Otherwise, I'm fully behind it, among other things. The representative of the Svein Fleet referred to. Yes, we need to be able to look at the capital situation of Statkraft in other ways. That's why I made a number of different ways to do it in my post, if that's what you want. But the problem is that even if the Council of State says they're talking to Statkraft, there may seem to be different signals coming — not least when the message sent by the Council of State might not be received in the way the Council of State wants. For the company itself, it is said that they are most likely not involved in some projects as a result of a lack of clarification. That's the explanation that has to come. There is no significant difference between the situation related to Hydro’s purchase of Vale S.A. and the situation in which Statkraft actually lives. Both want and need a clarification, and the smallest state can do, is spend shorter time and give the board its answer to the request.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e322	I think I also gave the answer in my previous post. We're going to give Statkraft answers when we've decided. We've decided once we've done these analyses thoroughly enough, and when we know that these billions are best placed as State Force will, or one. It is true that every company has at any time projects — investment opportunities — that the equity or the situation of the company suggests that it is not possible to implement. It is a normal situation in all companies that different investment opportunities are assessed. Some people find themselves very profitable, some people raise capital to implement, and others are not feasible even if they may be profitable. This is a normal situation. It's not that because Government has investment plans, they have to get billions of the community. This has to be done through an assessment that we as owner have to take. I'm not going to be the government council that throws billions after the companies that ask for it, and risks playing with the state's money, or with the community's money. I was characterized here by one of the proponents of the Advance Party as standing for a hard capitalist policy. I don't know if it was a compliment, or if it was a criticism. But at least I'm going to be as hard on profitability assessments and accountability in placing the money as if it were our own private money we invested. Because that's our own money. This is community money. Each krone that we charge off on misinvestments is a penny less spent on health, care, school, roads, police and all the other things that the Progress Party is very eager to spend on. The same would be true if we had sold this company or sold us down. In the portfolio of Statkraft there is a company called Trondheim Energiverk. It provided the Progress Party and the Right to sell the time they ran Trondheim City. There, Trondheim City's population has lost between 5 and 6 billion. NOK only on the increase in the value of the company since that sale. That kind of policy is not going to stand for this government. We're going to take care of people's money in a much better way. If it's good capital management, good capitalism or being a good owner of capital – so much for me!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e333	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e349	This interpellation is based on the challenges that we can already see in getting services to jump into the future health care system. In other words, it is about whether we will be able to train enough people with the right skills to meet the needs of the population for health care in the coming years. This is a question that Stortinget has debated in the past. The government has addressed these issues in several ways and in different ways – first in St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning — on future needs for care, presented to the Stortinget in autumn 2006. Here we also find the Competence Plan 2015, which describes the objectives and measures to provide adequate professional skills for the municipal care sector. Also St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, focuses on the future needs of health professionals. I expect the Council of State will give us a good and thorough account of the government's policy in this field so far, with a strategic view of the future. The reason why I have chosen to bring the health and education issue into today's interpellation is that St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the Interaction Reform, and the treatment of this in the past by the Stortinge, point out that not only do we have a challenge in getting many enough to train in the health field, but that the reform also provides for different weights in resource use compared to what has been the case so far. This must necessarily have consequences for the way we train people within the sector based on the kind of skills we will need in the health sector. The interaction reform highlights three key elements that need to be taken into account when allocating resources in the future: the geographical dimension, such as, inter alia: the distribution of resources in the north-south, densely populated, urban-built or, as some may say, the centre-periphery relationship between the disciplines, e.g. between highly specialised medicine, home medicine, general medicine, rehabilitation skills, etc. the relationship between levels in the health sector is also important, between specialist health service and primary health service and the levels which may be located between: The whole scheme of the health reform that Stortinget has now adopted is about thinking differently and new about these issues. An overall health committee concluded in annotated form and during the debate in Stortinget on 27 April this year that the direction of the cooperation reform will challenge our education systems. The Committee points out that current medical research, as well as training, focuses primarily on the needs of the specialist healthcare system. If we are to distort healthcare in the direction advocated by the Interaction Reform and on which there is much agreement, we must give far greater priority to the needs of primary health services, for example: among chronicler groups, and we need to improve general public health work. We also know that in the coming years we will probably see an increase in the number of people with drug problems and mental disorders, which will require considerable efforts and multidisciplinary competence in prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. Not least, we need a health care professional who is prepared to meet the great growth of the elderly we are going to have, especially after 2020. Seeing many older people in the future after all, and hopefully, will be healthy and fast and perhaps longer in work than is the case today, it is highly likely that when the group of older people over 80 years increases, it will mean that we get more people with dementia and more who also have other and complex disorders. Today, we have neither good enough research nor adequate pecuniary competence in the field of old-age and nursing home medicine. Some of the major challenges will be addressed in this field in the future. When the government in the interaction message focuses so heavily that we need to focus on prevention, early intervention and greater efforts near where people live, we know that these goals are being challenged by some demographic features in time. We have long seen cities and major agglomerations very often win the draw for people and competences. Many small municipalities have major problems in getting sufficient health workers, especially those with higher education. The struggle to recruit enough people to health care can be tougher in the years to come. If we look at the statistical projections for the health sector, for example: In 2030, many of the estimates show that we can have a deficit of between 35,000 and 50,000 annual works — if we base today’s educational rate on health professionals. This will primarily concern nurses and, in particular, health professionals. But we can also get a deficit of physiotherapists, ergot therapists, activists, bio engineers, health sisters and midwives, to name someone. That is why we need to step up work on health education in order to meet the objective of equivalent healthcare provision for all. Training sufficient with people, with the right skills, in combination with good, accurate distribution mechanisms is necessary to avoid the most gloomy scenarios we can see in our future health and care sector. Therefore, we need to identify and strengthen the factors that lead us in the direction we want. One of the main means of achieving an equivalent level of provision for all is to obtain decentralised training provision, both in terms of basic, continuing and continuing training. We've seen that the proximity to the place of education makes people more likely to stay at, or close to, the place of residence they have during the period of education. Therefore, we need to further strengthen this element of health education, in combination with various other good recruitment and stabilisation measures. It is also important to analyse and act in terms of the dropout we see in high school. This may be a major problem for the labour market in general, and the health sector in particular, if the trend is towards large groups of young people being left out of work. If many young people who are about to start their adult life end up outside the labour market, such as long-term sick or unemployable, we as a society will not be able to maintain and develop a sustainable welfare state. That's why it's great that the Ministry of Knowledge has addressed the problems in high school, in consultation with each state. It's important that we act now and that we act along many lines. The facilities in the various health professional training courses also need to be reviewed and changed in line with the developments we see. I have already mentioned the challenges of an increasingly older population and that we need to have a much stronger focus on prevention, treatment and rehabilitation skills in chronic diseases, such as cancer. muscle and skeletal disorders and lifestyle diseases such as coal and diabetes. We need to have better knowledge and competence in areas like drugs and psychiatry. We need to train doctors who not only have curative competence in the most common somatic diseases, but also doctors who are social physicians and specialists in public health and general medicine. We simply need to have health workers who are more likely to have a preventive and broad perspective on health and health work. So I think that as politicians, we need to be better and braver, so that we dare to see that the many complex issues related to health, health, or inequality, are not just about what we do in the health sector in isolation, but that they need to be understood and handled across social sectors. I look forward to an exciting debate on an important and comprehensive theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e389	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen is asking for a strategy to train adequate and appropriate staff for the health sector of the future, including: because the interaction reform indicates that ageing populations and the increase in lifestyle-related diseases pose new challenges for the health sector. I am pleased that this important question is being asked. I am also committed to ensuring a sufficient number of health professionals with the right and up-to-date knowledge and technology to ensure that we get a good and effective health care – even in the future. I can assure you that I have raised the educational issue both with the former and current Minister of Health and Care, so the basis for thinking together about this should be good. In Soria Moria II, the government emphasises the sustainability and robustness of all welfare systems to meet demographic challenges and growing health and social security budgets. Implementation of the cooperation reform shall include, inter alia: help mitigate the growth in the consumption of hospital services by early intervention, prevention, as the representative spoke about, better follow-up of patients and a greater proportion of services are provided from municipalities. These are changes requiring personnel with knowledge to work more locally and not least to work preventively. Interaction reform therefore also poses major challenges in terms of competence. At the same time, the projections of the Statistical Central Bureau provide a somewhat more nuanced picture of future needs than what Knutsen refers to. According to the Agency, we train what we need from personnel with university education, but we need more with health education. The positive picture will continue well into 2020. But in the long term, that is, between 2020 and 2030, we also need more nurse training. It is my opinion that we need to prepare for the needs that meet us in 10-20 years, and among other things. Take advantage of the opportunities offered by increasing youth unemployment in the coming years. It's a good thing that we're going to increase youth unemployment in the future, and that gives good opportunities to recruit young people into the health professions as well. The government has therefore already taken important steps to meet the challenges. In the revised 2009 national budget, the government increased the number of nurse training places by over 400 places. In the 2010 budget, we followed up with 400 additional places of study. Although there was a slight decrease in the number of applicants through the Coordination of admission to nurse training, there are still two applicants per job. So the places will be filled up. I will also follow developments in this area closely in the future. With higher youth, we can expect more applicants in total higher education, and we will come back to this in the annual budget proposals for the Stortinget. With the changes resulting from the cooperation reform, and also modernisation of education, to which I will immediately return, we will also need to assess new and up-to-date projections of the needs for what education should actually contain. The question to the representative Knutsen is about more than training more. We also have to work smarter and more efficiently than we do today. We need more knowledge and more targeted research on how to work as efficiently as possible, and we need to put innovation and new technologies into practice. Technological development has given us many new opportunities. Also in health care there will be opportunities in the future to do tasks in a smarter way than we do today. We need to stimulate innovation and innovation across the whole sector. A five-year commitment has been established between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Health and Welfare on needs-driven innovation and industrial development in the specialist health service, in cooperation with the Research Council, Innovation Norway and InnoMed. In the government's innovation report, St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009, An innovative and sustainable Norway, it is proposed to continue and extend to a 10-year bet and to focus on research-driven innovation in addition to needs-driven innovation. A public body with a mandate to explore innovation in the care sector was set up in 2009. This selection is led by Kåre Hagen. In 2009 I presented the Research Communication Climate for Research. In this Communication, health is one of the key areas of action. Medical and health research and the challenges of the welfare state are disciplines that have grown faster in Norway since 2003, particularly through the strengthening of what has happened in health businesses. The government still wants to give priority to this area. However, it will be important to identify how research can contribute to the realisation of the Cooperation Reform, and not least how we can strengthen the relationship between research, education and work. The government is now following up the Interaction Reform and its treatment by the Storting. Good health sector education is central to this work, and the Ministry of Knowledge is therefore actively involved. I will try to contribute to the coordination and development of an overall national knowledge policy for future health education. To meet the challenges of the cooperation reform, we need to look at the content of education as well as to provide a basis for updating content and for a comprehensive and effective management and structuring of these educations. Together with the education sector and the field of practice, we need to look at a number of elements. I'll point out some examples here. We need to identify basic competences that will be sustainable over time and on which the student can build in the course of his/her working life. We also need to look at how we can update the knowledge of all those who are already working in the health sector. Good continuing training arrangements that ensure continuous upgrading of skills are likely to be necessary for the success of the reform. We need to find the balance between basic education and the responsibility of the employer. We will assess in more detail the level of education system — secondary schools, colleges, universities and higher education — that can best qualify for different functions in the fields of employment. What kind of competence is needed to carry out tomorrow's health work? We must continue to work to improve the interaction between research, education and vocational training and to assess new tools that promote practical research, such as VAM – well-being, working life and migration – which are precisely an action-oriented programme that expects research to provide knowledge that can be used in policy-making and in the management of public schemes. So we have to think about recruiting. We need to recruit new personnel, especially for health education. We also need to look at schemes to qualify and approve personnel coming to Norway from other countries with relevant education. Estimates show that we have sufficient staff from universities and colleges on the way, but that we need more people with health education, as mentioned earlier. Practice in education aimed at the health sector is absolutely necessary in order to prepare students for work. The changes in education mean that we also need to look into whether we have the right arrangements for practice in education. Are today's arrangements good enough to meet tomorrow's challenge? We have good experience here in the conversion of teacher training to integrate practice in a completely different and hopefully much more efficient and good way than it was in the past. This is also very important for the education we're talking about here. It may also be necessary to look at governance models, organisation and roles that different actors need in order for tomorrow’s personnel to be trained according to the challenges facing the health sector. To date, we have not had an interaction reform to deal with, and it has not been desirable for me to develop a competence policy in this field until the communication has been addressed by the Storting, but we have, as I said, made some preparations. Now the reform is under way, and the government is following up. I will now follow this important work in dialogue with the Minister of Health and Care and with others to produce good analyses, not only in terms of capacity, but also in terms of educational content. In the light of this, I would like to develop a competence policy for health education that will ensure the future needs of qualified personnel. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we have experience of this in what we have just done to reform teacher training. This has been a demanding job, but it is also because we have included professionals and a large field of work. I think that's also important in a similar work with regard to health professionals. I look forward to promoting good measures for the Storting, measures to ensure that we are trained adequately and properly in the health care of the future. I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when we have come even further into the process of developing a modern and forward-looking education policy for the health professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e442	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and would like to stress the importance of the Ministry of Knowledge addressing the challenges posed by the Interaction Reform for Health Education. I am pleased that the Council of State here is calling for her to come back to the Storting with important actions that, as a whole, can constitute a targeted health education policy, in line with future skills needs. Governments are entitled to maintain that the statistical projections regarding the need for health professionals are not unambiguous. There are many variables that can influence the relationship between the demand for healthcare and the number of health workers we can offer at any time. But as the Council of State also said, all the statistics point to the fact that we're about about. 20 years will have a significantly greater need for labour in the sector than we have today, not least in the case of health professionals, and that group we need to be able to train decentralized. It will be the best way to fulfil the main idea of the Interaction Reform, that a greater proportion of healthcare needs to be provided in municipalities, as close as possible to where people live. Then I am pleased that the Council of State focuses on research and development in the field of health, and that cross-ministerial cooperation has been established for a multi-annual commitment to research-based and needs-driven innovation. It is also reassuring to hear that health research is the field that has had the greatest growth in its most recent years. I have no doubt that the Council of State has a very important point when she stresses that we need to work smarter and more efficiently than what is being done today. Most people must agree that the use of modern technologies in the health sector is not good enough. Rather, it is probably the way to look for other areas of society in this field. I think there is a lot to pick up on both the use of technologies to support and facilitate practical work in the health and care sector and the use of ICT as the usual communication tool. It could revolutionize the relationship between patients and treatment and open up different levels, institutions and businesses to talk in a much better way than you do today – partly because we have a law that does not allow it today, and partly because we have not received a sufficiently wide, comprehensive commitment to communication technology and competence. However, in 2008 the government presented a national strategy for electronic interaction in the health sector. It's a plan that will give us good tools to just work smart within all levels of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e457	I think the interpellant's third division, or the three dimensions she mentioned, is a very fruitful approach to the matter we're talking about, namely that there's some geographic relationship here. There is a relationship in terms of the content of the subject — how to train in the future — and there is a relationship between levels. I would also like to stress that although we agree that the Agency's forecasts tell us that it is only in some years that we will have a more acute need for nurses, it is important to keep awareness there, to hold those we have, and not risk that there will be a downward trend in such matters as: applying to the profession of nurse. We have good experience today that the universities are good at decentralised education. There are many good examples of that in many parts of the country, and that means you get access to students, candidates, who want to live where they live, who are not of the youngest, but who also become very faithful in their field when they are fully educated. I think that's what we need to strengthen. I want to mention it in particular. I would also like to mention that with the transfer of responsibility for the vocational school to the county municipality, we have a good opportunity – even at the level represented by the county council, with both adult education and secondary education – to see the health profession as a whole, so that it is not influenced by the fact that someone does it alone and does not know what the others are doing, but that you see the context of health and social education and what begins in higher education – I fully agree with the interpellant that it is important to prevent apostasy and to get them to complete – and that the county municipalities can see this in the context of what they are doing in both adult education and, not least, the vocational schools. Then I want to highlight the process in which our universities and colleges today are involved, which we call SAK, that is cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration. In order to increase the competence and quality of health education, it is incredibly important to be able to achieve both the point and the width – that is, both the specialisation, which may have to be done in universities or at least in higher education, and the breadth, which is the broad range of education that mainly takes place in higher education. Something is also going on at the technical school, but, above all, health education is taking place at the higher education institutions. The need for cooperation reform is the need for competence in the first line, close to the municipalities. There we have an important challenge now when we are going to discuss the content of these subjects in the future. We need point, we need width, and we need this to happen all over the country, but it has to be in a qualitatively good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e470	I believe that the interpellant Tove Karoline Knutsen is quite right in saying that the availability of enough health professionals with the right knowledge is one of the major challenges that this room needs to address, if Norway is also going to be a whole front line in welfare services in the future. In the Labour Party, we, as everyone knows, have high expectations on behalf of the people, also in this area. This is not a new phenomenon, but is a historical recognition that is therefore well anchored in government. When I start like this, it's not because we're sad at the back, or that it looks very dark – on the contrary. For example, in the last two years the number of places of study in nursing school increases by 800. I am sure that the increase in youth that we know will be coming in the future will also benefit the health sector more. In this context, I will arrest the opposition, from Stortinget's spokesman, for over time having conducted a systematic and recurring black measurement of the Norwegian health care system. Every day, we can hear about the extent to which the disease has fallen due in hospitals and in the health sector. I want to say it so that it's not very dressy for the upcoming populace who have taken the goal of getting into government position. It's beyond that, tearing crazy, and it's not least unfair to all the skilled professionals who every day do a great job for sick and nursing people. The only thing that the opposition achieves with this is to talk down on our health care system. For my part, I will take the time to point out all the good work that is being done daily, and how we can do this even better when the needs actually change. That being said, I would like to stress that yes, there are challenges in health care, and we are going to definitely seize them. So to the interpellant's main point about what will be the right strategy to develop enough personnel with the right knowledge. In the near future, it seems that it is not the biggest challenge, but if we look at the issue in a 15–20 year perspective, the challenge is so definitely there. The used number of 95 000-135000 new annual work in the health sector can initially demonstrate that one can challenge the private sector to their needs for new labour. It shall, as you know, contribute to a value creation that will replace and fill a vulnerable oil-related economy. This need of over 100,000 annual works is stipulated to be 44 pst. of all the free labour force at that time. This sounds alarming, but in my view it must be seen in the context of expected and necessary innovation and technological development in both the private and public sectors. Our industry will have to use new technologies instead of labour for many reasons, which can then be replaced or put into public welfare production to a greater extent. In the health field, there has been a lot and more will be done in the future. The cooperation reforms will intensify this need. The health sector will need many and new types of professionals. Therefore, in the future, all health outcomes need to be seen more closely. In the same way that teacher education has gained its degree, health education also needs to be fully reviewed and more adapted to future needs, as interpellant, Tove Karoline Knutsen, quite rightly pointed out. It is therefore good that the State Council of Aasland signals from the pulpit that she will take a closer look at this. It seems that nursing education is on track in the near future, but it will be a challenge to get laid in the country where people live. Unfortunately, there is not always a priority number in the newly created leagues. It's for some reason more important to be a specialist in a large central hospital. This phenomenon described the interpellant in an excellent way earlier in its article. It will therefore be a political challenge to be happy with a good geographical spread of special medical services. I'm very comfortable with the Council's approach to the challenge. A full review and renewal of health and social challenges are needed. It is therefore exciting to see what exactly Hagen selection concludes with in its setting, which will come about. One year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e496	It is an important topic that the interpellant addresses, although I still have major problems in seeing that the Storting has adopted an interpellant reform, because what characterises a reform is that it takes place in peaceful forms, unlike a revolution, which takes place by means of power. The opposition, as we know, agreed on 42 points, on which we wanted to negotiate with the government parties, but we were clearly rejected and were told that power came to power. Another feature of a reform is that it is usually a change for the better. Now it was very little concrete that came out of Storting's treatment, and an essential element that funding was lifted out of Stortinget and into a State Secretary's Committee. History has well shown us that it almost means putting a case to death. So if we're facing a change for the better, only the future will show. That is why I have also noticed that many of the government parties' representatives are no longer talking about the cooperation reform, but about the interaction message. It's a little sad that we haven't come any more, because St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 in an excellent way outlines the major challenges we face. The important thing now is to have the means to meet today’s and tomorrow’s challenges of providing patients and healthcare users with proper treatment in the right place at the right time. Today we have 260 000 in the health queue, we have 5 000 drug users in queue, we need 18 000 sick homes, and we have a maintenance lag of 80 billion kroner in the health sector. We know that tomorrow will bring us far older with several different complex diagnoses, an increase in lifestyle-related disorders and an increasing demand and expectation in the people in terms of the quality and extent of health services. We have a very fragmented health system, divided into three levels of administration. We have a youth of laws and regulations that even legal experts can work with, and that leads to serious problems for health professionals in fulfilling their obligation to provide guidance to users. We have unclear lines of responsibility and a complex funding system, with many actors who are all doing their utmost to avoid having to cover the costs of the treatment they professionally consider the patient needs. In yesterday's Question Time, the municipal minister repeated what is often said: that we are living longer and longer, and we should be happy for that. It's true that life is increasing. It goes several years before death comes to us, but it comes to us all eventually. But at the same time, it means that a lot more of us will live for many more years, with many complex and different sufferings. This means that many more of us for years will be dependent on receiving treatment, relief, care and care. That means that many more of us for even more years will be dependent on help from others. Are we, then, sure that we can say that we should be happy for that? The interpellant points to building skills as an important tool to meet the challenges facing the health system in the future. I believe that both capacity, continuity and competence are essential. For this reason, the Progress Party has written down page by page with proposals and comments on the need for education, adult training, continuing training, specialisation, transfer of competences, etc., with a view to shifting responsibility for large and important tasks from one level of administration to another. We are talking about multidisciplinaryity, cooperation and interaction. That's a lot of nice words, but we can't forget what's the starting point, the patient. How are we going to set up our health education courses in the future? Can we learn something from what we've done in the past? Can we learn something from others? The progress party has repeatedly called for more hospice places to be put in place, without being heard. I think we should look more at the hospice philosophy itself. It has an approach to the whole human being. I wish that was the basis for future health education. Unfortunately, we see that increased specialisation, whether driven on the basis of professional development or as part of a wage struggle, has led to a fragmented approach to the patient. At the same time, we see a reduction in nursing care and disease teaching when we look at professional development from help nurses to health professionals. The profession rests on three pillars: it is to be treated, relieved and comforted. If you ask someone today who's in the care business, how many people would point to the doctor? It is also my opinion that the traineeship service, which was previously mandatory before taking up a health education, was a positive element that prevented later non-response. Today, according to Sykepleien, there are more endings than starting. It is also important to facilitate the widespread use of training practices. It is in contact with the patient under skillful guidance that a health worker can learn to observe and develop a clinical look. Possibilities for continuing training must be provided. In this area, the vocational schools should have played an important role as a real alternative to universities and colleges. But the lack of vocational education funding and the grip of regional reform was a step in the wrong direction. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that when anesthesia, childhood, intensive, surgical and cancer care training went from job finance to a higher education responsibility, it was a right step. We need too much and competent personnel in the future. In the 1970s, we established nursing homes without defining tasks, quality and content. I still think we are struggling with the aftermath with the entire 30 pst. unskilled and extensive use of part-time. The complex care to be performed is not durable. So finally, a personal heart attack in these paydays after 30 years in the health care system. When you're born as a man and it says on your payroll that you've got a female supplement, it does something about your self-esteem, and one actually wonders if it was right to choose untraditionally. We have to remember that we need health workers of all genders and that good professional environments in themselves are recruiting. Only when you know where you want to go is it possible to get there. That's what the government's challenge is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e522	For the Right, training of skilled personnel is an investment in the welfare of the future. We have therefore gone to increase the appropriations for education and research by about 1 billion. kr, so that we can ensure that we have professionals in the future as well. At the same time, this will provide a necessary boost to the quality of the supply to users. The main groups of health care professionals are nurses and health professionals, and it is also within these groups that the deficit on staff will be greatest. The Health Directorate's estimates show that in 20 years' time there will be a shortage of 13 000 nurses. These numbers assume that there are as many people trained as today. For the medical market, the calculations refer to an approximate balance, provided that no substantial changes are made to the division of tasks. If each doctor is to serve fewer patients, there will be a deficit here as well. There are now about two primary applicants behind each nurse's study place, so the educational capacity needs to be increased by 20 pst. to achieve an approximate balance of the labour market for nurses. This corresponds to 800 new places of study. It is also important to ensure a sufficient number of places of practice, where both municipalities and health businesses can do a better job. Not only should we be concerned with quantity, but we need to put an equal amount of emphasis on quality. We know that lack of resources means that the period of practice does not provide students with adequate guidance and training in line with educational requirements. The nurses’ own student union has addressed this, and the right has asked the government to ensure that the period of practice gives students the skills they require during their education. Despite the fact that municipal health and care services are facing increasingly challenging tasks, the share of unskilled in the 30 pst sector is increasing. These are employees who make a formidable effort, but are charged with too much responsibility to cover up the shortage of professionals. This challenge is reinforced by the need for municipalities to take greater responsibility for health and care services in the future, in line with the objectives of the Cooperation Reform. Regrettably, the government parties will not support the objective of skilled staff in the care and care sectors. Instead, they measure health and care outcomes through quantitative measures on the number of employees. Several employees are necessary but not sufficient to ensure good services today and in the future. We need more skilled professionals to provide good services to users with complex needs. However, if the community health service is to become an attractive job for health professionals, there must also be a wider professional environment and better opportunities for professional development. There are many good measures in the 2015 care plan, but they are too small and powerless. It does not hold to show that there is a teaching home and teaching home service in all counties, or that 5 million is granted. SEK for research on dementia, which affects about 70 000 people. The right will invest more in the development of skills for employees, so that they are equipped to take greater responsibility and at the same time experience the job as a professional stimulant. In line with the objective of strengthening municipal health and care services, a greater share of the funds for research and professional development should be made available to employees in this sector. This will contribute to increased knowledge and a more professionally attractive job, thus increasing the quality of supply. The right has proposed significantly increased appropriations for quality and competence measures in our alternative budgets, and we have prioritised funds to strengthen the provision of educational home and teaching care. In addition, we have identified the need for a specific focus on skills in rehabilitation and care at the end of life. Many continuing training projects provide good results for the competence and quality of services of employees. About 1 600 people carried out continuing training at post-secondary or post-secondary level in 2008. We believe that this offer needs to be further strengthened, in particular given that employees in the municipality will in the future provide patients with complex needs with a better offer. The evaluation of the ongoing training project in Hordaland points out that there is a lack of systems to ensure that competence is put into use in municipalities. Politicians must take greater responsibility for this, including: by requiring quality, not just quantity and economic governance of services. It is also important – as the Council of State was in it – to ensure that specialised schools can maintain a decentralised, flexible and professionally varied range of services. In the end, the representative of Bremer accuses the opposition of black paint. In fact, patients, relatives, professionals and the State Health Inspectorate point to shortcomings in the competence of the health sector, but in particular the health and care sector. It takes up the opposition – as opposed to the representative Bremer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e558	How to train adequate and proper health professionals in the future will be one of the really major challenges for the next 15–20 years. After the Storting has addressed the Interaction Reform and with it a long-term course in health policy, priority for early action, priority for prevention, it is clear that it is essential to meet the future challenges in the health sector that we are able to train enough health professionals and to train the right personnel in the future. The interpellant stressed in its article that we will need between 95 000 and 135000 new annual works by 2030. Today's educational capacity will last for the next ten years, and then it will be blown up. I fully agree with the Council of State that we must take advantage of the opportunity offered by increased youth unemployment in the coming years. We have to increase the capacity of education before it has been ten years. We have to do it in the next few years, and it's very positive that, among other things. the capacity to train nurses has increased. There will be a major shortage in the future. We also need to focus on training properly, so that we get health professionals to what we need and where we need them. One example is the training of doctors. We're going to have a big need for doctors in primary health care – lawyers and municipal doctors. However, in the last ten years, the highest rate of growth in medical facilities has come to specialist health services, in hospitals. The number of medical assistants in specialist health services increased by 1,140, to 11 000 in the period 2002–2007. At the same time, it increased only by 250, to 4000 for the same period of municipal health service. That illustrates the challenge. This means that medical training needs to be geared more closely to the needs of local health services than it is today. There I think the example of medical training at the University of Tromsø is good, where they are now adding to an education where students are more active in the community health service – where they are going to work in the future – during the course of education. The same is true of the new dental training in North Norway, in Tromsø. The county has developed dental clinics that are specifically designed to accommodate students, where both students and educational staff in education practice outside, near the patients, where they will work in the future. In addition to this giving us good doctors and dentists, we also get health professionals who are motivated to work in the community health service, motivated to work in the districts. I have mentioned medical training in particular, but this applies to all disciplines. My conclusion, therefore, is that the cooperation reform also requires a reform of health skills if we are to succeed in the objectives. Whether it means a new skills reform or an additional reform to the one we already have, I'm not going to answer, but it's that dimension of education. The health sector, the education sector and, in addition, the local authority sector must engage in binding cooperation, both with regard to the device of the various vocational training courses and with regard to capacity. That is why I believe that a natural conclusion must be that Stortinget has this as its own case for treatment. It is a challenge and dimension of the challenge that is really about how to secure the welfare state in the future. In the first place, we might need our own big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e579	The representative Knutsen is raising an important debate. That's what she's supposed to be for. As the interpellant describes in his intervention, the health sector and the welfare state face major challenges in the future. We live longer, and so we stay fresher, but it's still so that at some point we like to be marked by the tooth of time. At the same time, we have challenges related to our lifestyle among the somewhat younger garden, which leads to prevention becoming a more important theme. The interaction reform is one of the answers to how we intend to meet these challenges in the future, but the cooperation reform at the same time creates a need for change and skills requirements. The challenges facing the welfare state will therefore have a major impact on education and training aimed at the health sector. It is therefore necessary to address the key aspects of education and, in particular, the interaction between research and practice. In its contributions to the debate on the Reform of Cooperation, the Centre addressed precisely the need to train more health professionals. When you look at the health care interview for the next academic year, you see a slight decrease, while the previous year showed an increase. This means that there is a continuing need to motivate more people to these disciplines in order to meet the needs of health workers, as the interpellant refers to. I think it's important that we also take into account that it's not just those who are looking for education right after going on, which it's important to recruit in this way. Health professionals also appeal to adults who either want to formalise their skills after working as unskilled in the sector for many years or who want to change their pasturage. It is then important that education is available in the vicinity of the place where they live, so that higher education can be combined with care and part-time work. The interaction reform gives us challenges, but it also gives us opportunities. For the Centre Party, competence is an important element for the implementation of the Cooperation Reform according to its intentions. There are a number of people who need training, follow-up and treatment near where they live. It requires knowledge. Technology also offers new opportunities within the health sector. There are therefore exciting opportunities in various educational institutions offering both health and technical subjects. How to make it safer for an individual user, for example, by using technology. you stay home longer, while having direct contact with health professionals in an even better way than today. That colleges, such as The University of Gjøvik, seeing their potential for future cross-disciplinary education, is just a response to the Aasland State Council's suggestion that we need to work smarter and more efficiently than today, and we need to develop new technologies and drive innovation. A strategy for the training of future health professionals is a good measure. The central party looks forward to the follow-up of the government. Recruitment is important both for basic and continuing training. The same will also be true for research and innovation. As part of the debate on recruitment and strategy for a number of health professionals, I will shortly be taking part in the debate on ‘counter-power’, which the leader of the Centre Party has brought forward this winter. The debate has aroused resentment in some layers at the centre of Oslo, but counterpower is not just about being against Oslo – to the greatest extent not about being against Oslo – but about our country becoming stronger by sharing power, competence and innovation. A health professional competence strategy provides opportunities for the development of competences, innovation and research across the country to institutions that are necessarily not in Oslo but are at Gjøvik, in Tromsø, in Bergen or other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e607	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate. I agree with the inter-pellant that more prevention in health education is important, and that we need more within the different groups, both health professionals – who were also in the Council of State – and not least in higher education and special education, which will be my emphasis today. Diakonhememets Hochskole and Lovisenberg diakonale hojskole have received 68 applications for approx. 30 places on masters in health care for the elderly. It's very pleasing numbers when we know the demographic challenges that await us in the future. This shows that many health professionals want to work with the elderly. It also shows that they want to have an even stronger professional competence as health professionals. We have to take advantage of that. Therefore, I wish that the schools had had more capacity and opportunity to receive even more qualified students. Also, in further education in palliation, or in relieving treatment for the dying, Lovisenberg diaconice has a very good search. The Christian People's Party believes that the offer of life support to dying people needs to be strengthened. This applies both in hospitals and in municipal health and care services. Competence in relieving treatment needs to be strengthened in all types of departments where people die — including in home and nursing homes. In the past, the Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal for its own life-help plan. Traditionally, many relief treatments are associated with cancer, but all patient groups must be offered life support in the final phase of life. With demographic developments, we will, among other things, more and more older people who will need it. Unfortunately, continuing training in palliation is not a master's degree today. Lovisenberg diaconal college has a desire to offer this education as a master, but unfortunately there are small resources to develop a master's programme. I believe that the Council of State should look at the possibilities of securing resources for this kind of development work, and hope so, because that is important. Private universities have a high level of competence and, not least, a willingness to invest in this. Regardless of whether a school is private or public, it provides a unique opportunity for government authorities to take advantage of. Master’s degree also stimulates development and research, later doctoral thesis, leadership development, evaluation and documentation. It involves a strong empowerment on which the health sector will depend in the future. At a time when resources are scarce, requirements for good management and efficient working methods and strategies will be central. I would very much like to hear the Council of State's assessment of such a development. Then I would like to comment on the post of the representative of Tor Bremer. I think maybe he's not here anymore, but I do it anyway, because I got quite upset about it. He started his post by going straight into the throat of the opposition and saying that we black paint the health sector. Then he goes on and talks about health professionals. I fully agree with the representative of Bremer that health professionals are doing a fantastic job. No party in the opposition has ever criticized health professionals for doing a bad job. They're doing a fantastic job. So do all the users. We have a lot of good health in Norway, but we also have major challenges. In some areas, we almost go backwards into the future, and I will explain it: I see myself as an ombudswoman for different individuals and user organisations in this country. This week I have met two user organisations. One of them was Mental Health, which has a great deal of concern in these days after the graduation plan has been completed, the earring has been removed, and we see that municipalities and specialist health services spend less and less money on mental health. This is a big concern for our users. The other area I want to mention is muscle and skeletal disorders. Haugesund Sanitätsforenings Revmatismosykhehus let down his physical institute including his therapy pool this week, i.e. a few days ago. More than 1,000 patients are affected. It's a lot of despair. They say they're going to get sick, they're going to get unpensioned. This is because the state has withdrawn from the economic cooperation with the municipality of Haugesund – a cooperation that is fully in line with the interaction communication. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said when he was visiting there on December 1, 2008, that this is great, that's exactly how we're going to feel in the new interaction reform. The change in the funding mechanism for physiotherapists in some outpatient clinics has resulted in or will be discontinued. I don't understand. This is going backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e629	It is an important topic that the representative has raised here. Although the representative of Bremer prefers not to talk about the challenges that Norway has and will also have in the future not only in the care sector, but in the health sector as a whole, that is actually the reality. Today, we have an unnecessary number of people in line for the necessary health care, with the extension of the suffering that this entails. Much of this is actually due to the government's aversion to using private healthcare providers. I'd recommend those who just want to talk about all the positive, to talk to and listen to those who are in the health queue. I would also like to point out that the Advance Party does not criticise the health professionals at all, on the contrary, we want to boast of them! The interpellant pointed to the importance of getting well-trained and well-trained healthcare workers into the care sector. Although the Minister says that there has been dialogue with the Minister for Health, the government parties have so far shown little interaction with the needs of the Cooperation Reform in order to increase the number and funding of educational places in the field of health. Most municipalities in the country, responsible for health and social education, report that they have little opportunity to increase the number of students in 2011 in relation to today’s pupils, within the financial framework given. Still having to increase the number of pupils in classes without funding for more teachers could impair the content and quality of education. In order for the Interaction Reform to work, a comprehensive policy must also be pursued in the areas of health and education. It is also thought - provoking that as late as March 22, 2010, figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that only 10 pst. of the newly graduates from health and social education at higher education institutions start to work in the care sector. This is really thought-provoking and shows that it is absolutely necessary to try to make nursing training more attractive in order to make people stay in the profession. Wages and salaries are, of course, quite an essential part of this, but not the only part. The Progress Party believes that offering more full-time jobs will provide more flexible working time rules and that increasing the professional quality of care services will help to make education and training more attractive. The Progress Party also believes that another important step is to release private providers of care services. They will then compete to attract health workers. It can contribute to better employment and a market-adjusted salary, which in turn will lead to more people applying to the care sector. As an exception, it must be mentioned that the nurses in Sweden are encouraged to become self-employed by their own trade union, the Vårdförbundet – equivalent to Norske Sykepleierbund. They have established a separate company as a guide and assist with the establishment and operation of those who will establish themselves. This should be an example for follow-up. In addition, a number of health education places have to be set up, and there has to be an economy to employ more teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e651	Thank you for the interesting interpellation, a good Council response and many good posts from the hall too! One would be wise to listen to such debates. As a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I am particularly pleased with all the debates in this Chamber that underline the importance of education and the importance of competence in our society. The sum of such debates tells us is that, in almost all professions, sectors or industries, it is reported that more education and better education are needed to ensure sufficient and adequate labour. It has come out very well here in this debate on the health sector. Minister of Research and Higher Education Tora Aasland is quite right that a broad approach is really needed here, and that many different answers are needed to answer the question: How do you train adequate and appropriate staff? I want to reflect a little bit on a part of the problem, and it's on recruitment, both recruitment into this education and recruitment into different types of health work. Firstly, it is very important that we raise the status and reputation, highlighting the importance of having a good health sector in our society. We have had some debates in which one has approached this sector in a way that is almost a 'necessary evil' activity in a modern welfare society. It really isn't. It is a necessary prerequisite for us to develop and further develop a well-functioning society, including a well-functioning working and business life. Secondly, and it has also come out well here, competence and education are important. Those who choose to enter such a profession shall know in advance, before entering the job, that they will receive sufficient training and that they will receive the necessary training while they are at work. In this way, continuing education, decentralised education and the flexible way in which it is to be done, as many have mentioned here, are very important. Thirdly, of course, wages, including the equal pay debate that we have especially in these days, are very important. In this context, when we're talking about recruitment, it's very important that full-time should be a right and part-time only an opportunity if we're going to get increased recruitment. It is very important that not this profession or this sector, these jobs, are exposed to a little of the same problem as we now see many other places in society, that temporary employment is becoming a rule and permanent jobs an exception. It has to be the opposite. Temporary employment shall be the exception. In order to address the overall work environment problem – we have already talked about several things that have to do with a good working environment – it must not be the case that health workplaces prove to be hazardous to health. It should not be the case that people in the health sector have to report more frequently and for longer periods than others in the workplace, and that people in the health sector who are unable to survive either have to go down to part-time at the end of their working life, or in some way have to be involuntary. Especially dramatic, and that's what we have to take with us here, is this if one gets a pass on to the pension system that I don't think least parties on the right side of Norway are currently in favour of. There's going to be a near-punishment if you can't stand the time until retirement. Summary: A necessary, but not sufficient, condition to succeed in what we all now want in this room is to make it more attractive and popular to choose such education and professions. Then we have to do something with the factors that I've mentioned here, and here it's still very much done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e672	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this inter-pelling debate, not least the Council of State, who have presented the government's strategy with many good measures, so that we can have enough and competent health workers in the future. Then I took note of the fact that the Progress Party still has the balls to distance itself from the interaction message, which is both a message and a reform that the Stortinge has adopted, and which Health Norway and users all over the country fully agree with. In this respect, I believe that I will join the representative of Bremer, who called for us to stop talking about the health sector, while at the same time it is quite right that both politicians and others should see and act when something is wrong. But if it's interesting for young people to choose a profession in the health sector, we might have to replace behind-talking with what I'm going to call provocation, that is. that we need to talk well about the health sector, tell you that it's interesting to work here. Everyone has rightly stressed that we need to train more people to work in the health sector from now on and forward, and that the need will rise by 2030. There are many factors that will play a role in the relationship between the provision of healthcare and the needs of the population. It mentions better medical research and innovation that can contribute to better effectiveness. It is also important that those who want full-time jobs should receive what Mr Hagen said. Wide-ranging prevention work will also have a bearing on the relationship between supply and demand, and many have pointed out that we have an untapped potential for using modern technologies. At the same time, we might have to think a little bit more generally about what the definition of good health should be. What are the requirements for future health care as new and important milestones are reached in disease treatment? Will we still be able to expect or require modern medicine to make us healthy? And what does that really mean? I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat it: we should shade away from the World Health Organization definition, because here we are talking about good health as complete physical, mental and social well-being, without sickness and listening. I think we're going to try to have a different approach. Grief, pain and sickness are part of life, of being human on earth. But we have to make sure to have a health care system that is there for everyone when we need it. We must hold back from the unwavering idea that money and status should never take precedence, and that we must never have four on the demand for equal access to health care for all, regardless of geographical, economic, social or ethnic standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e685	I also thank you for the debate, and take with me the input and views that have come into our further work on the development of the health sector's professions. I have noticed the desire for an overall thinking about this from the government, and I absolutely do not disagree with it; I think it is very nice to have it underlined by up to several speakers in this debate. What is needed, in addition to continuing work, to establish both places of study and research, i.e. education at master and doctoral level, is a review and a renewal of health and social education courses against both the interaction reform and the challenges we are facing in the future. In this final article, I would like to point out something that several of the speakers have had, namely the role of county councils – which is part of the geographical distribution we have. The fact that the county councils lack funding to take care of the technical schools is directly wrong. We have transferred exactly the same to the county councils in this year's budget as the vocational schools received in the last year's budget, just to continue the important vocational school offers. There is also a unique opportunity for county authorities to see vocational education in this area – health, not least – in the context of getting pupils through higher education, including with the same specialisations, and in the context of adult education, which can also be a good way to pursue continuing education. I fully agree with what several people have said, that it is important to be present throughout the country with this type of education. There was talk of counterpower here, and I want to say that our entire higher education system is counterpower, because we have a higher education system that is all over the country. We train nurses and health professionals all over the country, and we will continue to do so. Through our high schools, which are all over the country, we're going to pursue decentralised education, so that we can get to the individual. There is probably no more decentralised subject area, but it still has the quality assurance available in a higher education institution than in nursing and health education. It might have to be the teacher training you can compare with. To give Davøy an answer: I am concerned that, in addition to professional training, of course, we should also have master-level education. It is up to the individual college to build up relevant master's offerings. For some of the good things about our higher education system is that we're going to have research-based education. That means that master's degree and doctor's degree are also important. But professional training is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e705	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e719	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e728	In the years ahead, tens of billions of dollars will be invested in energy networks around our long-range country, ranging from new line runs to maintenance and upgrade of existing networks. This we believe is very good. By further developing and increasing the online capacity, we build the country for the future, we build stone by stone. We create values and jobs and secure and develop settlements across the country. Everyone wants energy, but there are few people who want the installations and the grid that belong to it. We have more examples of that. This is a common challenge for all of us. Our main task is to ensure a stable, safe and good energy supply to the whole country. Individual projects will often be controversial and subject to discussion and conflict. Our task must be to be able to see the whole of this problem. This will require tough decisions, but we need to be able to both make and hold together on these decisions. During the previous period, the Storting Group addressed a strategy for increasing environmental, aesthetic and community concerns in electricity pipelines. The proposers are now suddenly calling for clear leads. Where were they a year ago when this was dealt with in Stortinget? I'm just asking. It is not possible for us here in Stortingen to deal with new guidelines annually. The power line strategy was adopted by an overall increase, if I do not remember faults. Designing a centrally detailed directive for the concrete design of the country's lines does not seem to me to be the right way to go. Local relationships and the exercise of discretion from project to project are probably the most sensible way to do this. For this reason, I am convinced that the legislation and guidelines that were discussed for approx. a year ago, and adopted in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg shortly, is more than sufficient. The aim of the Labour Party and the Government is to bring Norway together into one energy kingdom. In the future, we will not operate with many different price ranges, but only have one price range in our entire long-term country. That must be an objective. For this reason, we need to expand the network capacity across the country – and especially between the parts of the country. In addition, many new and renewable energy installations are being built and must be built. Then you also need the net. It is therefore easy to see that our country will be characterised by a lot of network expansion in the years to come. At the same time, of course, this expansion should be as gentle as possible in terms of the environment and other social interests. We're gonna do that job. We already have a good and up-to-date legislation in this area, as I have mentioned earlier. Let's go together and further develop the energy grid in our long-range country!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e743	The starting point of the Progress Party with this proposal for a representative is to have a debate and a clearer guidance on when the wiring vis-à-vis the ordinary alignment is relevant. The progress party believes it is important to facilitate a robust and secure transmission system of electricity across the country, which also has the capacity to receive new energy – and it is urgent! Several price ranges in the country are a clear indication that there is something wrong with the distribution of electricity. And when case spokesman Stroem asked where the opposition was a year ago when this was the case, the answer is that the opposition actually called for this debate a year ago as well. But it seems that the position wants to have an action room, which they used at least during the election campaign. It is very worrying that important decisions about new network deployments are taking place in time, partly because of endless local debates about trasé choices and the possibilities of cables instead of the airline. Many have noticed that a number of large-scale representatives have taken part in these debates locally – without any initiative at Stortinget, as we also saw in the election campaign in More and Romsdal in the autumn of 2009. It doesn't seem very credible today when the results of that election struggle do not result in anything concrete here in this hall. Everyone understands that it is important to have a precise and prudent law that unites the need for a secure power supply to value the valuable natural values. There are many natural values, and assessments have to be made — in addition, local understanding comes from busses and other things. So the Progress Party therefore believes it is important to clarify a more precise cut-off for the choice of air voltage versus earth or sea cable, which may also be relevant – this is because the cork power industry or the political environment is excited that every single line construction ends in major conflicts, as we see today. The Progress Party is seeking with this proposal to have a more formalised debate in the Stortning on the principle of central network cabling, so that each project is not unnecessarily delayed by the unobligatory raising of the issue of cables – land or sea. It is therefore very regrettable that the plurality in Stortinget believes that the question of the demarcation for the cable of the high pent line was adequately addressed in connection with Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009. Many would say that the debate on the power line to Central Norway and Bergen shows something quite different. Storting treatment of Ot.prp. No 62 had very little access to central network legislation, and there was no debate in principle or review of border crossings for the interconnection of the central network. On the other hand, the government’s view of cable in the local distribution system came into play. It is also a response to the representative, Mr Stroem. Furthermore, the Progress Party has asked the State Council to come to Stortinget to find out about progress in the powerline projects from Sima to Samnanger and from Ørskog to Sogndal. However, the Council of State has rejected this in a letter to the Group of the Progressive Alliance, and he points out that the refusal is based on the grounds that: ‘The decision on the power lines will be taken as soon as: [[...]] The Progress Party is aware that the projects mentioned, and the Council's response, are a good example of the lack of clarity of legislation and policy guidelines. There is therefore a need for such a case in Stortinget, and we regret the double-game that representatives of the government party stood for the autumn of 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e765	On the right, it is positive that the Progress Party proposes a review of the law for the construction of power lines, including a discussion on the boundary drawing for the choice of air voltage versus ground or sea cable. They've given a good reason for this today. The right has also had similar suggestions, and it is disappointing to see that the government does not want to follow up. The right has, among other things: provide a new policy guideline for cabling, technical councils for new technologies and for the continuation of work on a European super-network, which will be entirely decisive for Norway to export renewable energy. The construction of power lines is very conflicty, and the great commitment to power lines we see across the country should make the government party take on the fact that today's legislation is obsolete. The strong and increasing resistance is an important reason why important expansions stop. There is a great need for a full review of the network policy, both domestically and against Europe. If we want Norway to be a power of pure renewable energy, and if this is to be a field of activity for the years to come, we need a network that is well adapted to this objective. We don't have that today. Powerlines are controversial both in terms of 420 kV and lower voltages. Many communities and individuals protest when large air voltages come close to bustling and important landscape areas. The Norwegian fjord landscapes are the world's foremost destination, and UNESCO has pointed out some of the fjords of the West to the World Heritage Site. The planned lines in Hardanger and between Ørskog and Fardal have very negative impacts on the environment and the quality of life of many inhabitants. Rightly, the government believes that its inaction and a lack of will for innovation are a very important reason why we are in full swing both when it comes to network reinforcement and further development of the network. Old-fashioned stalls and outdated online policy guidelines are disastrous for important grid capacity deployment. I want to give some concrete examples of outdated thinking when it comes to online politics, from my home municipality, Hornindal. A new 132 kV line through Hornindal created a lot of resistance, among other things. because she passed the nursery right by. After strong pressure from the local environment, the developer was willing to place parts of the distance in the earth cable to reduce the negative impact of air voltage beyond the kindergarten. Despite the fact that this cost no more than two to three million. kr, the builder was not allowed to do this, cork in the NVE, or the matter was appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Rigid rule prevents a reasonable solution from being solved. A few years later, plans were made for a new 420 kV line through the municipality. The corneal watercourse was developed in the 1960s and later protected in the 1970s. When Statnett came up with plans for a 420 kV line through the building, the protection status had little value. In other words, the various state protection decisions are on complete collision courses. In Hardanger we see great resistance to a new 420 kV line through one of the most important fjord landscapes in the West, and there is great distrust of state bureaucracy both in terms of builders and administrative bodies. In the Official Journal of the European Communities, it is pointed out that there are several alternatives to new air voltages between Sima and Samnanger that lack complete distribution, and that the threat of darkening the mountain range is used as a main argument for pushing this line forward. After Statnett was forced to publish important background information on the development, it also appears that it would be positive to wait until 2015 to make a final decision on the construction of the Hardanger line in order to get a better overview of the consumption developments in the area. This puts Statnet and NVE in a strange light, and it gives distrust to treatment routines in such cases. When Bergen's Official Journal and others claim that there are so many errors and lack of the basis for deciding whether to expand the grid, it creates great distrust, and it prevents the rapid and efficient deployment of the power grid. Therefore, it is very regrettable that the government does not support the evaluation of the legislation for the construction of powerlines where cables can be a remedial measure to speed up development. The right takes up the presentation of the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and will also support the presentation that has been distributed in the Chamber – proposal No. Two, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e799	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e802	As we have discussed several times this spring, the need for a high focus on security of supply and capacity is a very important debate for the Storting. Our own climate, the poor supply situation in parts of the country, a deregulated and not always as well-functioning power market – all these are reasons for the debate on security of supply and power lines having had a slightly higher profile this year than it might have had in the past. In addition, the highly controversial Sima-Samnanger line of high temperature and high local involvement is still being discussed in the public, and we see the same thing about Ørskog-Fardal. Both are matters on which the representative Lødemel was in. But there's also more to play in. The need for a supply policy that allows the flow of new renewable energy is an equally important factor in the future. And this need makes clear the balances in environmental policy in which we all need to participate, and which are difficult: the relationship between important natural and environmental protection interests, species diversity and aesthetic values on the one hand, and the need for natural intervention to secure power supply and new renewable energy on the other. These are very difficult discussions that will only increase in power as Norway transforms – we can delete transform, it's called changing, right – from a fossil society to an even more renewable society. As the Council of State has written in its reply to the Committee, a powerline strategy has already been adopted in a unanimous decision-making process. This makes the opposition's proposal for a little of a demonstration proposal, although I agree with the opposition's comments that it is important to facilitate a robust and secure electricity transmission system throughout the country that has the capacity to receive new energy. That's the goal I think the whole Big City can be reassembled about. I fear, however, that the proposal is not entirely well-considered. The proposers refer to it as a problem in itself that such heavy and difficult processes take time and even refer to them in the position as ‘endless debates’. It could have been tempting to remind the opposition of the value just of thorough processes, with solid democratic anchoring and tidy procedures. If one asks the locals in Hardanger, I don't think their main objection to the Sima-Samnanger case, which is now being treated, is that the procedure has taken too long, I think on the contrary they appreciate getting time to make their opinion known and heard, and time to contact and influence local and central authorities. Therefore, I do not know whether it is possible or appropriate for the Storting to determine fully rigidly the cases in which the earthing and air voltage are to be used for the development of central networks, respectively. For one person, in such cases, it will not be possible to avoid having thorough processes that take into account the specific nature of each trasé, the local weight of the public exposure, the specific natural values that may be affected in each development, etc. Finally, in all these debates we have on powerline development – and they are starting to be part of this year – we must never forget that a kilowatt-hour saving is always better than a new kilowatt-hour. The potential for energy saving in this country is enormous and has to be extracted, and is not something we have to forget in the eagerness to always expand more. We can save ourselves a lot of painful conflicts between different environmental interests in the time to come, if we manage to exploit even more of this energy saving potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e817	Of course, it is okay that the representative wants to change the word transform to change, but the term transformer is still likely to be used in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e820	I agree with the president. I recommend the representative, Valen, to leave the debate in this very debate. The development of power lines touches on at least four key issues for the Centre Party: security of supply, environment, nature management and community. In the Center Party, we are busy having a secure power supply throughout the country. We are concerned that citizens and industry should have sufficient power. And we're busy increasing the production of renewable energy. To realise the potential for renewable energy, the power exchange between different parts of the country must be strengthened. The government of which the Central Party is part is actively working to strengthen the commitment to renewable energy. The investment in energy conversion and renewable energy through Enova is more than triple in the period when the government has its seat at the rudder. The basic fund has been strengthened. The focus on renewable energy sources, their research and development has been strengthened. The work on strengthened line networks is in progress, and we have put in place an agreement of intent with Sweden on a green certificate. A well-developed network of lines is necessary for the realisation of several renewable energy production projects. It is important and necessary to have adequate flexibility and security of supply throughout the country. At the same time, the development of power lines often involves conflicts in the form of nature protection issues and construction. Major interventions in nature are not only a challenge for travel life, as previously mentioned here, but also for the communities that get these interventions closely involved. Both subterranean cables, seabed cables and high-spent mast power lines lead to natural interference. That's why we have to work to ensure that the lines are carefully constructed, and that we take into account the degree of natural intervention, construction and aesthetics. The guidelines state that cables should be evaluated in individual cases and that they should be used increasingly at a lower voltage level. It is worth reminding the keenst cabling enthusiasts that the option of land cabling, and especially at high voltage levels, is often one of the biggest lasting natural interventions. Some regions and communities are becoming more and more disadvantaged than others in order for the rest of the country to benefit from a well-developed transmission system. For good reason, these cases have created considerable local involvement, and therefore arrangements to mitigate these disadvantages are important. We're talking about wire. The removal of existing unnecessary grids and remedial action in the lines must be central when this development takes place. When Bjørn Lødemel from the Right calls for cabling to be assessed as part of a new strategy, at least it is in place in the strategy developed by the government. There must be other things that the representative, Mr Lødemel, is thinking about that which must emerge in a possible new strategy. The centre party joins the plural setting. This matter has been discussed in this Chamber before, and the government has put forward a strategy that contains the elements described here. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party wants a more rigid system, with central governance over local discretion and consideration of regional differences. But the champion in riding two horses in this hall when it comes to grid development is the right party and the representative Lødemel, who went to the elections in Sogn and Fjordane not to build the line Ørskog-Fardal in air voltage. He has no suggestion in this room to put her in cable. Many in Sogn and Fjordane are still waiting for him to propose. That line will be entirely decisive to realise the potential we have for renewable energy. Later today, we are going to discuss the potential for small-scale power stations in this Chamber. Then it is worth reminding the representative Lødemel of the debate that in Sogn and Fjordane states, which we both represent, a new small power plant will not be built until that line capacity is in place. So it would have been good to get a clarification of the Right's view on the Ørskog-Fardal line, whether it should be built, with the progress planned, or whether one should stop the work and put it in the cable, as the representative Lødemel called for in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e841	Maybe web development isn't a win cause for us politicians. The more important is the actual development of the web and the development of our network, because in the society we've created, we're totally dependent on having a network that works. It is important that we have a robust network. It is important that we have a secure transmission system and that the whole country gets power at all times. It is important that we have capacity on the web to capture new, clean energy. For me, it is linked to two main points: this big business has said that we have the goal of becoming a low-carbon society. If we are to become a low-carbon society, we need to take some action against some of our sectors that emit too much CO2. One of those sectors is the transport sector. We have to get more of our cars onto a fuel other than fossil, and then electricity will be an important contribution in this sector. But it's also important that we have a network to get more power into. And we have to look beyond the borders of our country and be part of the climate virtue of clearing Europe for the coal-fired power plant energy used there. So I'm sure this whole room agrees with the Valen's point in terms of energy savings. It is important that we always take with us, including in this debate. I am also almost convinced that most of the parties here in the Chamber can sign the four main points of the Central Party and the representative Sande, which he takes into account in this debate: power supply, housing, environmental management and natural management. Then there are probably different weightings, but for the Christian People's Party, we don't have that much difference in weight compared to what the representative Sande spent his speaking time on. But then I'm over to my second main point, which is to find the balance point between different things that go in different directions. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a precise and predictable law in place, which ensures the power supply, and at the same time takes care of valuable nature. Therefore, it is important for us to have increased attention to the technological development of cable cables. It's good that there's something going on, and evolution does it, among other things. on earth and sea cables. But I'm also going to be one of the first to say that there are challenges in terms of wiring. In the event of a breach, we know that there may be major natural interventions that need to be done. That gives us a challenge. So there's no simple answer to this. Now the Left hasn't promoted its proposal yet, but in order not to have to spend more speaking time, I'm giving our support to the Left's proposal when it's being promoted, to put it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e857	It may happen relatively quickly, for the next speaker is the representative Borghild Tende.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e861	The left is concerned that we have a good infrastructure for the transport of electricity. It is necessary both for new renewable energy producers and for the proper functioning of the power market. That being said, important environmental considerations must always be given priority when new lines are to be expanded. I would also like to take the opportunity to draw up two specific air lines, which have been covered by many of them here today, which the Ministry has to deal with, namely the Sima-Samnanger line, which is planned on the north side of Hardangerfjorden, and Fardal-Örskog through the Sunnmørsalpene. The conflicts related to aesthetic considerations and environmental values are so strongly linked to these lines that alternative cables for air voltages, such as sea cable or earth cable, should be used on several routes. The transmission of high voltage lines uses almost exclusively air voltage, having regard to the guidelines given by the Stortinget. In the past, the government has promised new guidelines that will open up more opportunities for the transport of cables in sea and soil where air voltage will be devastating in important natural areas. Among other things, Åslaug Haga, former oil and energy minister, has repeatedly said in Stortinget that there was a need for such guidelines, and that they would come. No such guidance has been provided. This is why the Left today proposes that such guidelines be developed and it is essential that these guidelines be submitted before a decision is taken on the two lines under review. The left will also support the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the vote, and we assume that the discussions and evaluations requested in the proposals are part of a government proposal on new guidelines, as left-wing demand. I am thus addressing the long-awaited proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e874	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e877	For the government, it is central to facilitating a significant increase in our renewable energy production. Sustainable use of hydropower resources is an important element of this effort. In the light of the climate challenges, the expansion and upgrading of existing hydroelectric power plants combined with the prudent development of watercourses will be valuable contributions. Then I have to admit that I have brought the script with me to a later matter. So if the president allows me to find a script that matches something better with the case...
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e884	The President does not overlook the fact that the matter can be served by it! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e887	I think we'll bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e892	With the permission of the Chamber, the President will have the clock rebooted. Riis-Johansen County Council has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, with corresponding scripts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e895	I thank you for your love, and may start with the second section of case no. 5th@item: inlistbox In this case, I begin with the following: the development of networks is important for security of supply and to facilitate increased production of renewable energy. We are now facing a period of need for substantial investment in the central network. That is why I am pleased to note that everyone agrees with the need for network investment in the future. It promises well that we will have broad support for the decisions that need to be made in this important area of society. At the same time, it is a fact that power transmission installations involve large installations and interference with the terrain. We must expect that the opinions on, among other things, trasé selection is split. No matter how laws and strategies for the deployment of power lines are designed, we do not overlook the fact that cross-cutting considerations will prevail. Overall, the best solution for the security of power supply, the need for more renewable energy deployment and the environment and landscape vary on a case-by-case basis. However, it is our responsibility as politicians to provide as predictable a guidance and a framework as possible for different considerations in planning and concessional treatment. It is also very important that the development of power lines is done as carefully as possible. That is why, as I know it last April, I put forward a strategy on how to take even stronger account of the environment, aesthetics and local communities when strengthening the power grid is planned. The strategy was adopted here in Stortinget in the spring session last year. Revising this strategy only one year after its adoption would be difficult to describe as providing a predictable framework. The electricity supply strategy provides a comprehensive explanation of the range of remedial measures across voltage levels. The advantages, disadvantages and challenges of cable selection were examined. The issue of cabling was considered in an overall perspective and challenges and opportunities of other forms of project adaptation were highlighted. A debate limited to cabling at higher voltage levels would dissociate the assessment basis from this whole. Based on a discussion of natural interventions, security of supply, technological challenges, costs and opportunities for access points and systemic measures, the strategy concludes that cableing is more often a socially rational measure at a lower level than at a higher level of voltage. It is established that cable should be the general rule of the distribution network, while its use should be progressively more restrictive with increasing voltage levels. This is a clear priority and direction that the Stortinge agreed to through the treatment of the strategy. As I said, the electricity supply strategy was adopted by an overall increase just one year ago. The strategy is well thought out and provides us with a sound framework for the decisions that now have to be made in the future, in order to have a network that keeps track of goals in the coming years. I am sure that the deliberation of the strategy, which we had last year, has properly addressed the concerns of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e912	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e915	As several articles in this Chamber have shown today, this is a debate that has been reopened over and over again. Several Documents Nos have also been published. Eight proposals on the same thing, one asking for clarification. The representative Serigstad Valen also refers to repeated debates on this topic in the Chamber. Not the Council of State sees that a more conservative framework around just this type of expansion would have given more care, would have been likely, and given a faster clarification in precisely this type of development, which takes too much time, which we see, among other things. where it relates to the development of Fardal-Örskog, as an example?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e920	It's not like that, for example. Ørskog-Fardal is about a treatment process that takes time due to a lack of overall clearance. It's a process that takes time because of the many small, needed clarifications to find a trachea that's good enough. It's about going on one side or the other of a fjord, whether it's going to go through a municipality centre or whether it's going to go outside. There are no guides that can be passed through central, horizontal lines. I just think we have to admit that building large power lines from one place to another requires a lot of work to be able to get a solution that is good enough to take care of local people's interests, good enough for environmental reasons and good enough to have a good enough quality on the line itself. So to use Ørskog-Fardal as an example of a case that would have had a faster clarification if you had a tighter frame around the power development, or the web expansion, I think is wrong given what the case is actually about. At the same time, I believe that when it comes to having an adequate overall framework, the Storting has taken care of it earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e927	I agree with the Council of State that Ørskog-Fardal is complicated. Through Sogn and Fjordane it is too weak and bad a net. This is a case where you need time to find the right solution. When it comes to the Hardanger case, there is still new information in the newspapers about things that should have been dealt with more carefully, and it is a considerable mistrust of the process that is going on, among other things. in questions raised by the people's reaction in Hardanger and in newspapers. I think it would be a great idea if you could have an independent body that could go in when such large expansions should be handled. It will give you confidence in the result, and it will also give you confidence in the process. My question is, how does the Council of State view the integration of independent bodies to assess the information currently contained on the development of Sima-Samnanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e937	I am a little surprised at the entrance to the question from the representative Solute flour. It can be seen that the representative is not confident that the State body, NVE, is an independent body. I totally disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e942	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e947	As many have said before, there is a high level of conflict around natural interventions such as power lines, road development and other major construction projects. The proposers say they have an ambition to lower the level of conflict by introducing more – let's say – rigid rules. I have no faith in that legislation. What is important, as the representative Serigstad Valen pointed out, is that there must be opportunities to make judgements and judgements in individual cases, including the development of power lines. I wonder very much about the use of the term ‘infinite debates around trasé elections’, as about the debate in the local population and in society elsewhere around these natural interventions and around these structures and choices to be made is somewhat negative, which we will have less of. I think you should notice that both in the West and elsewhere, where you have a good commitment to your communities. I myself participate in the debate on the Sima-Samnanger power line in Hordaland. I do not think that the debate is either endless or desertless. That debate is a very good debate and has been a very learning debate for most people who have participated in it. Both I and my party participate in the debate. I haven't heard a bastant demand from people in Hordaland for a quick decision. It is not the time for the proceedings that is the problem. It is the proposed pathways that are the problem. You'd like to discuss that, and you'll have to discuss that. I have, as I said, participated in those debates. And to the somewhat strange comment in the position that it has been noticed that big business representatives have participated in the debates ‘without any initiative on the Stortinget’, it is to say that this matter is at the discretion of the Council of State, not of the Stortinget. I have a very good dialogue with the Council of State on this and other matters. The problem we are facing here, which we cannot adopt away from legislation, is that we cannot set a price on the environment and environmental values that are final, definitive and absolute. I would also like to say that we probably have a potential for improvement in the way we communicate and are open around the procedure. This applies to all the agencies involved – in this case Statnett, but there may also be other network companies that have an improvement potential in being clear and clear about what you want, and why you want this, etc. I believe that much of the debate – the part of the debate that is about suspicion and fear – can be removed in that way. Then we get a more real debate about what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e960	This has been a bit of a strange debate, because the position does not debate what the opposition is proposing. Then I read the proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy for an evaluation of the rules and practices for the construction of power lines, including a discussion around the borderline for the choice of air voltage versus ground or sea cable.’ So we're not going to say it's going to be like this. We're not saying whether it should be tightened up or liberalized, we're not saying where the border line is going, we're just asking the Stortinge to have a proper debate on this. The reason why we do not go into the proposal and say how we personally want it is that we do not want to lock the debate already in our request for a matter from the government. This is a very complicated topic, there is no doubt about it, and it also bears witness to the debate. That's why it's important for the Storting to get a thorough presentation of a case on this, so we can make a good decision. When we have chosen to make such a proposal, it is precisely from the experience of the representative Henriksen. There's a lot of debates around the country where there's a sense from some big-time representatives that they're going to sort this out. But the point is that one has just shown that the Stortinge gave alleged guidelines last year when we dealt with the network policy and the web proposal to the government. So obviously everyone agrees that there should be guidelines, but our question is, are they in the right place? For there was no specific debate on the guidelines in the last year’s network proposal. At that time, there was a debate that cabling should take place at the level of distribution, i.e. locally, but in the case of central and regional networks, it was not a topic. And asking a question to those who run those levels, they say that the Storting hasn't given any new signals in this area. When someone in this hall claims that the Storting gave a clear signal last year, it is certainly not that anything has been changed. And when one sees that one has these debates, where one in Hordaland claims that now should be a fighter for yours and your daughter, while one does nothing to change the boundaries – the guidelines that Stortinget has given – then there is a struggle in the opinion, without a commitment to grips with this on the Stortinget. For the guidelines that the NVE and Statnet have to deal with, once again, have been given from here, through the government. If you want to do things in a different way, you need new guidelines. Then Stortinget has to get a case, so we can discuss this – and not give the impression that the opposition here comes with a done thing, that this is how it should be done – ‘rigid rules’. There's nothing here at all that's rigid. On the contrary, we have made it as open as possible. I think it is bleak of subversive arguments to vote against this, and not least of bad conscience from some red-green politicians because they do not want this debate in the Stortinget, but want to keep it hidden in the government apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e974	To what the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen said: the actual situation is that in connection with Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, there was just a debate on the issues currently raised by the Progress Party. And that's the main reason why a doesn't think there's any reason to go back in and start evaluating or concluding with some new guidelines at this point in time, because the situation hasn't changed that much. But besides, I totally agree with the proposal provider that one has to focus on this with web expansion and what type of network one should have. I also agree with Snorre Serigstad Valen, who says that power saving is something we always have to bring with us. That should actually be a priority. But even if it's a success, we know that we're quite content to have new production of new and renewable energy, whether it's water power or wind power or solar energy. All this will result in an increased need for networks, both the regional network and the national network. I also want to say that we need to have a very focus on expanding the network between Norway and other countries. If we are to be able to help with these climate crisis measures, we will have to contribute our pure, renewable power. We have the water power, and this is a great value because it can be regulated, and that one can get an exchange in relation to wind power and solar energy, which some other European countries are investing in. So the question is, what kind of network are we going to have? My clear starting point is that where it is possible to build earth cables, we should have it as a kind of first priority. But I see that in many places this with earth cable for the first time will lead to great digging – great interference in nature. Second, it's expensive, and it's a maybe a little bit more untapped technology. And thirdly, one sees that it can be very vulnerable, and that one has to go on with new digging, etc. as soon as someone has happened, it's easier to do something and quickly get a new voltage. So in all of these situations, there will be concrete considerations: what is the best solution? When I say that one should have earth cables as the first priority, it is because one through it helps to stimulate perhaps more efficient earth cables, a more efficient technology and a more cost-effective deployment of earth cables. Because I think that's a little neglected. Here's a technological potential that's not good enough, so we should always focus on improving it with earth cable versus air voltage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e987	The representative Sande has repeatedly called for my hold in relation to Ørskog-Fardal. I have a reason for this in several ways. When we see the big negative consequences of the proximity of the 420 kV line both in Naustdal, in Nordfjordeid, in Sykylven and some other places, it requires that we make other assessments. We also see that the assessments underlying negative impacts on nature, the environment, protected watercourses and, not least, on proximity to the bush are too weakly weighted. Therefore, it is important that we get new policy guidelines for the use of sea cable as a deterrent. The right has also suggested that a super-network should be provided to Europe, and that there should be a distinction further northwards, with a view to providing a secure supply, as well as for the export of electricity. I also recorded that red-green politicians traveled around the Sogn and the Fjords in the election campaign and said they wanted the airline, but they wanted that airline to get away from people. We have several areas where this cannot be combined with the line that we have today for treatment. Then it is important to follow up on what red-green politicians do when this matter is being dealt with, and it is the government that is responsible for handling it. So it went a little fast when it came to these suggestions. Right supports proposal No. Two, from the left. But we also want to add that one has to carry out economic assessments when drawing up these guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e996	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1012	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1021	The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party have ambitions in energy policy. We want Norway to be a strong contributor to the supply of renewable energy. Climate change confronts us with fundamental challenges in energy policy. We must phase out fossil energy and replace it with renewable energy, without greenhouse gas emissions. This must be done by reducing energy consumption, converting energy consumption and thus increasing renewable energy production. Never has so much been spent on the development of new renewable energy as under our current government. Substantial support has been given to new projects and agreement has been reached with Enova to deliver 18 TWh renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements by 2011 and 40 TWh by 2011. Small-scale power plants, including mini- and micro-power plants, are a good contribution to increasing the production of hydropower. In the 2005 Soria Moria agreement, we say that the government will: ‘to a greater extent exploit the potential of upgrading existing hydroelectric power plants and in the construction of small, mini- and micro-power plants’. In the period 2006-2009, a final concession for an annual production of 3,4 TWh has also been granted. In Soria Moria, we also say that the government will ‘establish a mandatory green certificate market for new renewable energy and mini- and micro-power plants. Where a green certification market is not feasible as intended, other instruments shall be considered’. So this is from Soria Moria from 2005. The common market in certificates with Sweden could not be implemented as intended. After some time, discussions were resumed, a common understanding was developed in June 2008, and an agreement on the principles of further work was signed on 7 September 2009. The transitional arrangements to be applied until the licence market is in place were submitted on 26 November 2009. Those transitional arrangements entitle all power plants starting from 7 September 2009 to participate in the certificate market. Mini and micro-power plants starting from 1 January 2004 are also entitled to such participation. I remind you of the text in Soria Moria that the government will ‘establish a mandatory green certificate market for new renewable energy and mini- and micro-power plants. Where a green certification market is not feasible as intended, other instruments shall be considered’. The structure and level of support and incentive schemes will always be the result of overall assessments. The non-profit schemes stimulate the realisation of marginal projects, where the risk limits the willingness to invest. We don't want to spend money on bad projects that will never have the hope of being either economical or socio-economical. Nor do we want to spend money on increasing profits that are already satisfactory. This will never be an exact science. In the transitional arrangements, mini- and micro-power plants are now built after 1 January 2004 included in the certificate market, while participation for other power plants is limited to those started after 7 September 2009. I note that this decision has disappointed those who are not allowed to participate in the certificate market, but who had hoped for it, and I understand that. Nevertheless, the Labour Party supports the assessments that have been made and we therefore recommend that this proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1045	Today's debate is a manifestation of a betrayal by three parties in the Great Britain. It's a debate that reflects a desire to manipulate history. We already got an example. The pledge given to the small-scale power industry in 2004 was backed by a unanimous committee. The Committee which made comments in 2003-2004 indicated that Minister for Oil and Energy Steensnæs had stated: ‘I would like to stress that those building up power generation are not now going to lose on it by introducing a green certificate market.’ There was no attempt from the red-green batches to define this to only micro- and mini-power plants. What was given was a basic promise that the technology will end up in the final green licence market. Now we see that small-scale power plants came into the final green certification market. Then the representative Henriksen is standing on the floor here and says that the transitional arrangement, no, must be in relation to the Soria Moria I declaration. It's a discrimination. One arrangement has a form of principle, the transitional arrangement relates to a political declaration that came after that promise was made but is not included in the final arrangement. It shows that it was just a substitute argument, because the government has found out for some reason that those who have actually taken a risk and have been pioneers should be punished. I think it is rather embarrassing as a representative of big business to experience that some big business representatives from the red-green parties in the newspapers go out and say, "I have not personally given this promise." Although you were sitting on the Stortinget, and although you did not in any way distance from the overall committee position in the 2004 debate, you now stand here and say, "I have not personally given this promise. You have to be able to trust that when a party says something, and there is nothing else from individuals in the debate, you are behind what the parties promised in 2004. I would also like to show that the then State Secretary in the Guri Størvold Ministry of Energy and Oil 3 March 2008 wrote an e-mail to a central party member who was to build small power plants, such as this. stand: ‘You can take it easy. What has been said by previous government councils and in biggest notification No 11 that installations put into operation after 1.1.2004 should be able to enter the green certificate scheme if they otherwise comply with the requirements are established.» So it is a promise from the members of this government that the promises made by Steensnæs stand firm. Then it says at the end of the e-mail: ‘I hope this was elucidating. And that you can now feel confident that your party is still to be trusted." Is it a parliamentary expression to laugh after such a quote? I just wanted to ask before the president clubs, the president has done it with me before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1071	If you could find another one, it would be an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1074	Then I'll leave it this time. It's obviously a lie – it's probably not allowed to say either – or a trick by party members to pretend that a promise is being kept when you obviously break it today. The members of the government and the red-green party members are now standing here defending this breach of promise as if history has not been different. So it was a unanimous increase that in 2004 everyone who builds small power plants, anyone who builds green technology anyway, and who joins in a final certification scheme, will be in the transition market. The point is also that the red-green parties strengthen this consensus and actually promote proposals on this. In 2003–04, the proposals to be included in the transitional regime were put forward by the end of the final certification market. Then red-green representatives in this debate will try to claim that the certification system we are ending up with today is significantly different from what was discussed in 2004. Yes, we have asked the Council of State where the difference is, but the Council of State cannot give any explanation as to what the difference is. The fact that the promise was in principle is far enough, but when you try to go into the facts here, you also see that there are no differences in what you then discussed and what the government introduced. The fact that the government in the Soria Moria I statement had another solution that was worse than the one they had promised before the election is another bowl. The point is that it is not the policy that the government finally implements. That's why I think it's unreasonable that a precisely for small power plants that have been built has a policy that they no longer stand for, but maintains it for this particular group. That is why I ask the red-green representatives who have a conscience in relation to the promise that was made to support the opposition's proposal. It's giving a recognition to those who have actually taken risks, and it's about making sure that when politicians talk about the need for investment in green technology, people will trust us in the future, and not when it comes to the small power industry, they don't dare to take that risk anyway. I'm dealing with the proposal that the opposition is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1089	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1092	Very many landowners have made large investments and have taken a significant financial risk of building up small power in all parts of the country. They've done what they've asked for a huge amount of money, to bet on the development of renewable energy. The government's transitional regime punishes those who are proud of red-green politicians and who have the courage to invest in an important district industry. Clear promises both from a mass collapse and from red-green politicians have become a solid promise break. Many small power builders are now at risk of the worst-case bankruptcy and of having to leave the yard and land. Green certificates have been an important issue in the election campaign both in 2005 and 2009. The Bondevik government had already concluded an agreement with the Swedes in 2005, and it is pure training that the red-green governments from 2005 have not completed this scheme and that it will apply to all small power plants. The e-mail, dated March 3, 2008, from former Secretary of State Guri Størvold in the Oil and Energy Department of the Central Party member Egil Berge on small force and green certificates is a good proof that red-green politicians have actively used this case in the election campaign as well, and it may have contributed to securing a button waltzers to the red-green parties. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with Sweden on 7 September – a week before the elections – was without a doubt a stunt in order to take advantage of this matter in the election campaign. Now you'll see if this will be a new lifting break. Of the 185 small-scale power plants built after 1 January 2004, only 35 are allowed to enter a green certificate market with the government. The Small Forces Association has provided evidence that the total loss is 1.2 billion. kr during the licence period. Many small power plants built between 1 January 2004 and September 2009 lose several hundred thousand kroner a year, some of them several million. It's very dramatic for those who owe it. Vesleåni power plants, which the State Council itself opened on 11 August 2009, lose 750,000 kroner every year on the government’s promise break. Eidsdal Kraft loses 2 million. kr and Fossveir Kraft the same. According to the Nations 21st May 2010 my biggest representative Torstein Rudihagen from the Workers' Party that it would be too expensive if all the small power plants were included in the transitional Green Certificate. There's a very bad reason for such a breakup. In addition, there is a claim that doesn't contain a destination. A certificate scheme that gives the builders a ‘soccurre’ of 15 to 20 øre per. kWh, will give an estimate of the price to consumers of a few cents per cent. kWh. In the worst case, a consumer will have to pay an extra hundred dollars at an extra power price. When we know that increasing production leads to a lower price, it is my claim that the consumer will not notice that this scheme is being applied to all those who were promised to be involved. The claim from Rudihagen lacks root in reality, and he must be documented. On the home page of the Small Forces Association, the committee’s representative and leader, Erling Sande, claims that the Central Party has lost this matter to the government, and thus owes it to the other government parties for this lifting break. This is mostly about the mess on the red-green side, but it's also a serious disclaimer from the representative Sande's side. The Central Party has held the Minister of Oil and Energy from 2005 until today and has been in charge of the steering wheel for so long that they are fully responsible for the failure to comply with these promises. The e-mail from the former Secretary of State Størvold is also a good example of that. Right wants to keep promises that small power plants between 1 and 10 MW built after 1 January 2004 will be included in the transitional green certificate scheme. It is about trust in a political party, popularism and morality. The Green Certificate system is an important measure to strengthen small-scale power generation as an important industry in the districts. It also provides clean renewable energy, which is an end in itself. Therefore, in addition, in the revised national budget, the Right will propose the removal of the land-interest tax for small power plants up to 10 MW. In the right, this is seen as an important step towards exploiting the expansions that have already been made, and the Right will facilitate the further development of small-scale power plants in the future. Right wants to create values and business development in the districts, and green certificates and the removal of the rent tax on small power plants are good examples of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1118	The introduction of a single electricity certificate market for the development of renewable energy with Sweden is a very important step in the development of new renewable energy in Norway and will provide us with a tool well suited to steering and dimensioning such a development in the coming years. Although the representative Lødemel made some attempts in previous posts, I don't think anyone can conclusively determine just how this market will turn out when it comes into force. However, we can be sure of one thing, and that is that it will trigger a number of projects that would not otherwise have been realised, which is also the objective: to set up a mechanism that triggers projects that might not otherwise have been profitable enough, but which, after an overall assessment by society, are necessary to increase our share of renewable energy. In order not to cause a halt to the development of power projects during the period until the entry into force of the green licence market, it has been important to put in place a transitional regime. We all agree on that. Of projects starting after 1 January 2004, micro and mini-power plants are subject to the transitional arrangements. The opposition's proposal concerns, as we all know, small power plants with start-ups before 7 September 2009. I understand that it can be considered unfair that not all types of construction start power plants after 1 January 2004 are included in the scheme. However, such demarcations must be made, and it is important that not too much of the licence market to enter into force is bound up with already launched projects or projects which would in any case be profitable. In the wording of the proposal, the opposition notes that a unanimous Energy and Environment Committee in 2004 would provide transitional arrangements for all power plants. It was also signaled by the then oil and energy minister Einar Steensnæs. At that time, however, it could not be known that the final agreement with Sweden would be entirely technology-neutral, completely without restrictions on hydropower, which is historically profitable in Norway. Now we know that, and then it's natural, as the Council of State writes in its response to the committee, that there is an overall assessment and some demarcations to implement such a transitional arrangement. According to the Small Powers Association itself, any aid to the 130 power plants in question constitutes this case, approximately EUR 1,2 billion. kr. And even though it may seem unfair to some people, it's important to remember that this would mean 1.2 billion. smaller for wind and bio projects and other projects with an even greater need for support. Finally, I would like to reiterate the perspective I had in the discussion in the previous case: that we should always seek the best possible energy saving policy. Therefore, many actors believe that a good addition to the forthcoming Green Certificate Scheme, which we are discussing a lot at Stortinget, are so-called white certificates, which are a corresponding incentive scheme for energy saving. This is something I hope both the government, the Council of State and the Stortinget will follow in the future towards the introduction of the green certificate market. I draw this up because it is important to warn against the view that any expansion of power in the name of climate policy is desirable and of the good. Many other environmental considerations are also involved. We must never forget that when we discuss what is, of course, significant natural intervention, and which has, of course, a cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1133	For the Centre Party, the work to facilitate renewable energy is central. The world is facing major climate and energy challenges in the years to come, and Norway has large resources within renewable energy in the form of water, wind and bio. We need to move from the fossil energy society to the renewable, and Norway has good intentions to contribute to this transition. Exploiting more of renewable resources to create renewable energy will not only be the right environmental policy, it will also create values, activity, jobs and knowledge around the country. Sometimes it is right to go beyond what the market itself provides, to stimulate new technologies or to promote environmentally friendly production. Schemes that can stimulate the promotion of the renewable energy sector are therefore important to the government and to the Central Party. In this context, it was particularly important for the Centre Party to put in place a green certificate market. And it was particularly gratifying when the Council of State announced in September that he had been agreed with Sweden on an agreement of intent for such a market from 1 January 2012. The market shall include all renewable energy. This is the first time that two countries have been agreed on the principle of a single certificate market. At the same time, a transitional arrangement was presented in which one pointed out that all new construction start power plants after the date of the agreements would enter the certificate market from 2012, with the remaining of the 15 years considered in the certificate scheme. In addition, it was made clear that the scheme will have retroactive effect on all power plants with a power output of up to 1 MW. For the Central Party, this has been a challenging matter. We've made it clear both in this room and outside all along that we'd wanted the transitional arrangement to be wider than she was presented by the government after a health assessment. We are satisfied with the design of the transitional regime when it concerns the renewable power plants that are being built in the period from the autumn of 2009 until the certificate market takes effect, but we would have liked several of the small water power plants to enter that part of the transitional scheme as the one for small power plants with start-ups after 1 January 2004. At the same time, it is worth noting that what the opposition is proposing in Stortinget today is putting all the hydroelectric power plants built in 2004-2009 into the transitional regime. This will integrate more than the small power stations that have been mentioned in the public debate, and provide for a greater transitional arrangement than the Central Party has worked for. Green certificates and transitional arrangements have been between the clearest requirements of the industry in recent years. It was, therefore, very important to enter into the Memorandum of Understanding with the Swedes on a common certification market and to make transitional arrangements. At the same time, it is easy to understand that some of those who have built out small power are frustrated that one does not get the same profitability in the projects that one would have received if one had entered into such a transitional arrangement. Although no concrete transitional arrangements were presented before the autumn of 2009, there was a political signal that such a transitional arrangement would come. These signals were not limited to power plants below 1 MW. Other sizes have also been thematically addressed in this room. An example is the feed-in system that was in force when the certificate market a few years ago was being watched waiting, which signaled that up to 3 MW of power plants were in the process of coming under the scheme. For a small party in government, it is often a challenge that one does not fully achieve its solutions. For the Centre Party, it was important to establish a licence agreement and a transitional arrangement. We are happy to have a say in this – together with the other government parties. Then we have to admit that we have not fully achieved the design of the transitional arrangements that concern the years from 2004 until 2009 and the power plants that are built in that period. Small-scale industries are an important industry for the realisation of new renewable and climate-friendly energy, value creation and knowledge around our communities. The centre party will continue to work to ensure this industry conditions for further deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1156	The issue that Stortinget is discussing today is an important matter. Small-scale deployment is about the development of renewable energy, as our country needs. Small-scale development is about good environmental policy. We're going to the low-emission society. Then we need more clean energy. Small-scale development is about good district policy, about the development of our entire country. Small power is an engine in many of our districts. Small power is about a supplier industry that is now built up and that we didn't have any years ago. Small-scale development is about us politicians today, about our own reputation, whether we stand by the words, the promise we made, whether we stand by the policy that provides predictable framework conditions. When a government council receives signals from an industry that the industry can stop because there is uncertainty about the system you think of in the future – if pure energy development is important, if it is important to develop our districts, if it is important to be involved in the climate struggle – then you take action. It did the oil and energy minister Einar Steensnæs. In fear that the expansion of small-scale power plants would stop, given the green certification market, which was not then in place, some promises were made. You made a promise that you would set a date for construction. This has also been confirmed by the government, through St.meld. No 11 for 2006–2007, and also through Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoxsen’s contribution to this. I understand that there are many small power plant builders who are disappointed in the staging hall today, but who have also been disappointed in the last few months. It's not easy to see why a goes away from promises, away from politics adopted here in the house. When, in November, after the press release had been sent out, I asked questions to today's oil and energy minister, Terje Riis-Johansen, I received an answer: ‘The installations to be certified were not clearly identified.’ No, it did not have to be clarified, because it was thought that this would apply to all installations, that all the 150-160 installations that were built would come under the scheme. We know today that there are only 35 plants coming, because the promises that were made have changed. The question I am left with after hearing the representatives Per Rune Henriksen, Erling Sande and Snorre Serigstad Valen, concerns this: Per Rune Henriksen understands that you are disappointed that you have not received support – he understands it – but says that you focus on an overall assessment. The representative Sande says that you did not get all the way – even if you are in government – and that it was very important for the Center Party to put in place green certificates. But I have to remind the representative Sande that when Åslaug Haga, Minister for Oil and Energy, re-opened negotiations with Sweden in December 2007, she said that she had two reasons for this: that Europe needed energy, which was the challenge, and that this was a demand from the opposition in the climate agreement. So the central party's self-interest was probably not what she used. When I hear the representative Snorre Valen say that he also understands that this can be perceived unfairly, but that you need to make some borderline moves, is my question: Should there be any borderline moves? Who said that? When did they say that, except in the Soria Moria statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1179	The case of green certificates reminds me, unfortunately, too much about the biodiesel case. The red-greens say one thing and do not follow up what they promised. It's a pity for the environment, it's a pity for the founders who have prided themselves on the government parties and created environmentally friendly jobs, and it goes into the array of things that can create political contempt. The left has been the driver of green certificates since the Bondevik II administration. Left Gunnar Kvassheim raised the matter repeatedly when he was the head of the Energy and Environment Committee in the previous period. There is a broad political desire to expand more renewable energy production in Norway, as the rapporteur said. In Stortinget there has also been a broad consensus on a scheme of green certificates. The scheme of green certificates will be a good measure to stimulate such a initiative. A number of individuals and businesses have made large investments and have taken significant economic risks in building renewable energy, precisely because it was a wish from an overall increase. Unfortunately, the government's transitional arrangements do not preside over pastors, entrepreneurship and development. I have received many e-mails and telephones asking if I can not try to reverse the centre party in this case, so that they can keep what they originally promised. I've told you I'll try, but I can't shoot anything. So in doing so, I carry out my mission by at least asking someone from the Central Party to turn in this important case for a number of entrepreneurs – mainly farmers – who have dared to invest in power development in the belief that politicians are keeping their promises, and who, according to the information I have received, are left with great losses that are at the expense of the ability to create another industry, which they see as very unfair. In conclusion, unfortunately, the left is not in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, but we are in favour of this proposal for a representative and therefore vote in favour of the proposal of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1192	Electricity certificates will be an effective and powerful tool to increase the development of renewable energy in Norway in the future. The Agreement with Sweden on the principles of further cooperation, which I signed on 7 September 2009, lays down the main principles of the common market in certificates. We have after that had a very good process in relation to filling up with the more technical around it. I hear that the representative Lødemel called this an ‘election campaign stunt’. I must strongly distance myself from that statement. For me this was much more serious than that. I perceive what I did in Sweden, as a milestone for the renewable initiative in Norway. I think it's going to stay behind as some of the important steps to ensure stability in the production of renewable energy. I notice that we have a different view of it, but to me this was a very serious and positive event, which we agreed on. The key questions that were never resolved – I repeat, were never clarified – in the previous discussions with Sweden, were put in place through the negotiations we have now had. We clarify the Norwegian level of ambition, and we establish the principle of technology neutrality. We have made it clear that the single market should be in place on 1 January 2012. It is the first time two countries have agreed on the principles of an electricity certificate market. I note that within the EU system and working with the renewable directive there has been considerable interest and commitment in view of the agreement that Norway and Sweden have made. It also shows some of the dynamics of the process that's going on. The agreement is designed to deal with future production. It has not been put in place in isolation to provide support for power generation but to use market mechanisms to ensure increased access to renewable energy. Small energy, together with all other renewable energies, will become more profitable. In addition, when we now spend twice as much resources on concession treatment facilities as we have done in the past, and many new small-scale projects have been granted a concession, it is well-placed for increased development in this area in the future. There were expectations of a transitional arrangement following the entry into force of the agreement between Norway and Sweden. It was important to ensure the development of renewable energy until the establishment of the single electricity licence market with Sweden. It was necessary to clarify the transitional arrangements rapidly in order to ensure this activity. We gave clear signals on the government platform on 7 October 2009, and I then presented the transitional arrangement on 26 November the same harvest. The transitional regime shall remain in force until a single electricity licence market with Sweden is up and running in 2012. The scheme covers all renewable power plants starting from 7 September 2009. In addition, all micro and mini-power plants starting from 1 January 2004 are included. The draft representative, which is up for debate today, proposes that: ‘all installations starting from 1 January 2004 which qualify for green certificates from 2012 are included in this transitional scheme’.» Reference is made to different processes, proposals and discussions from the previous time it was intended to establish an electricity licence market. The transitional arrangements on which the government has landed provide a clear description of the installations covered. That's new. The Bondevik administration never fully specified the installations to be covered either by transitional arrangements or by the certificate market. There were discussions, and there were signals, but it was never clarified. Opinions on who becomes eligible for the certificate and who will be the subject of a transitional period after that have been the subject of a discussion. The solution to the transitional regime was chosen after an overall overall assessment. It was necessary to draw a border, for example: as a result of all new renewable energy production being included in the electrical certificate system. This limit was set at hydropower plants with installed power up to 1 MW after a total balance equal to all micro and mini-power plants. I believe that we have achieved a great deal by the fact that the certification system has come into place. I am dedicated to making the certificate market work from 1 January 2012. I am eager to build even more renewable energy, and I believe that the green electricity certificate market will be one of the most important contributions to achieving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1219	It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1222	The Government Parties are seeking to uncouple the transitional arrangements from the commitments made in 2004, in order to ensure that the delimitation can be as the government itself believes it should be. By introducing a transitional regime applicable to power plants from 1 January 2004, they in effect recognise that a promise has been made. Then the question is what the promise was. The lift from Steensnæs was as follows: ‘Certificateable plants for electricity production starting after 1 January 2004 will have the possibility to participate in a green certificate system, even if such a system had to be established after that date.’;» The system was clearly established after 1 January 2004 — whether there is no doubt. The question is: where in this promise does the Council of State manage to interpret itself until there is a limitation in addition to their being certified? Small power plants above 1 MW are certified after 2012. What is the reason, in addition to not wanting it from the government, for the promise that they should not be left out in the transitional arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1232	I very much agree with the representative of Solvik-Olsen, who addresses the issue of two processes, and it is not possible to see it as one long process. I think it might be really nice to quote some sentences, what the representative Solvik-Olsen sail has said about this. In a letter to me on 3 October 2008, the representative wrote: ‘The Soria Moria declaration does not recognise green certificates for small power plants.’ That was the claim of the representative of Solvik-Olsen. On 1 July 2008, it is written from the same team: ‘Can you understand the Council of State so that he will work to include small power plants in a green certification system?’ The answer to that was of course yes, but again – the start of a new process. The representative Tord Lien writes in a question to me on 23 October 2008: ‘The policy of the Soria Moria Declaration on Small Power Plants requires that they are not allowed to participate in a certification market and that large hydropower is excluded’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1254	I also look forward to seeing the final outcome of the negotiations with the Swedes on green certificates, because it is an important measure. I fully agree with the Council of State. Otherwise, this debate has made it quite clear that we are facing a serious breach of promises. That's about. 160 small power plants that have received clear signals through statements and processing in Stortinget that they will enter the green certification system. The nation indicated that the districts would be rana for 1.2 billion. kr. It's also claimed that it's too expensive to bring everyone. Then my question to the Council of State is: what is the main reason for omitting the 160 small power plants, which in my view have the right to participate in the transitional arrangement? What's the main reason for excluding these?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1263	The answer to that is nothing other than what I said in my post, and which is the same here as in relatively many areas of policy, that it becomes a balance, an overall assessment about demarcation, for example. the length of the different aid schemes. In the case of the number, 1.2 billion. I'm not going to say that it's wrong, but I think it's important to bring a premise here, and that's that what the certification market will mean by winning for those inside is completely dependent on how the electricity price market is developing in the future. If one will see a trend due to carbon prices, as a result of climate challenges that contribute to a significant rise in the price of electricity in the market, the value of certificates will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1270	The Council of State was concerned that the Bondevik government had no clarification of the transitional arrangements. It is related to the fact that the negotiations with Sweden were not concluded and completed. They were concluded in February 2006 by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and then Minister for Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen. I want to get more understanding of the government's policy. That is why I use the wording of the case-rapporteur, Per-Rune Henriksen, that there is a basis for an overall assessment. The disappointment of the builders is understood, but there is an overall assessment at the bottom. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen also understands that it can be perceived as unfair. The representative, Erling Sande, says that the Senter Party has not fully reached. After listening carefully to the statements of the Council of State to try to grasp the whole idea, I still ask the Council of State briefly to tell what the government's overall policy in terms of this transitional regime is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1281	The question is probably quite like what the previous representative raised, and which I answered. With regard to the fact that there is disappointment on the part of companies and individuals who did not enter the licence market, I fully understand that, just as I fully understand that wind power producers who applied for aid early in the phase and who received relatively little grant in relation to what Enova now grants per kWh, regret that they did not expect to apply for the subsidy to be increased, because this was necessary to get enough wind power into the market. It's quite obvious that when you set a limit, it'll be disappointing for those who see that it would be more profitable to be on the other side of the line than what they're sailing. I have no problem understanding that, and that's the challenge when we create new schemes. There may also be other aspects of politics, in society, where arrangements are made, where one in retrospect sees that it could be more appropriate to be on one side than on the other side of a border.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1290	The Council of State's previous reply to me shows how bad the government has, because by quoting me from 2008, the Council of State confirms, among other things. that the Party has criticised the Government for breaking the promise that small-scale power plants will be included in the green certification system or in the green support system. That was, of course, the general scheme of support for my criticism at the time. After these quotations, the government has turned its policy around and said that small power plants will be included in a certification scheme. Ergo: I see it as a saying of what I've been fighting for all along. This debate is about the transitional regime, i.e. the consequence of the final inclusion of small-scale power plants. However, the transitional regime breaks the promise and does not include small-scale power plants, because the promise of an overall committee at Stortinget in 2004 from Steensnæs State Council was very clear: everything that ends up in the final arrangement is to be included in the transitional arrangement. Will the Council of State at least be man enough to admit that he is violating the promise made by the Committee, the Grand Government and his own government in the past, that everyone will be included in the transitional arrangement that is in... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1297	The reason I quoted from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the representative Tord Lien's letter addressed to me in 2008 was – and is – that it shows in a very good way that we are talking about two different processes here, also a different content. Now we never get an exact answer to where the previous process would end, because it never really got started. But it is quite obvious that a technology neutrality system that we have now developed, which means that not only the 6.7, 8 MW power plant is in the system, but that the very largest Norwegian power plant is also in, is something quite different from what is mentioned in various documents on the way, and what one by all probability saw was the landing at the previous crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1303	In the Municipality of Kvinesdal several small power plants have been built since 2004, and also before. The builders accuse the government of a breach of green certificates in relation to installations built in 2004 and until 7 September 2009. Labour party rapporteur Odd Omland goes high in the Agder newspaper on 31 May. There, Omland says: ‘It is right that all small-scale power plants built after 2004 should be included in the scheme of green certificates.’ Omland further points out that he will take this up with the British Labour Party policy. The question to the Council of State will then be: is it untrue – or, in the non-parliamentary context, what we would probably call a lie – what the rapporteur, Omland, is saying? I would like a brief reply from the Council of State. Is the answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1315	The answer to that can be very brief, because it is the same question that has been asked on several different occasions here in the reply chord exchange, and I refer to the answers I gave there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1320	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1325	In March of this year, I attended the Small Power Days in Haugesund. I got in close contact with many of the participants. But it wasn't long before the people I was talking to made it clear that you couldn't trust the current government on energy issues. The unanimous opinion of the Committee on Energy and the Environment that all investments in small-scale power plants built after 1 January 2004 and qualified for green certificates were to receive grants once the scheme had been put in place was now completely forgotten by the government parties. In the debate on the Days of Small Power, several addressed this government-party lifting breach not to provide subsidies to small power plants above 1 MW. Of course, State Secretary Sigrid Hjørnegård defended the government's position. The State Secretary’s opinion could be seen as one of the main reasons being the difficulty in sorting out those who had already built facilities and should therefore have received grants. In May this year, I asked a written question to the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen, about the small power builders in the municipality of Kvinnherad who had approached me. In the municipality it is built on small power on a total of approx. 120 GWh. With a Swedish grant scheme of 20 øre/kWh, this grant would amount to 24 million. kr. Part of this amount would have fallen to the municipality as a tax, a municipality that has a bad economy. My question to the Council of State was whether he was comfortable with the fact that no renewable energy subsidies are granted built between 1 January 2004 and 7. ==References== In its reply, the Council of State states that the transitional regime was established by the Bondevik Government in 2003 to ensure the continued development of renewable energy until the establishment of a common certification market with Sweden. In the response of the Council of State, it is not forgotten that all the parties of today's government in the note supported this establishment. The Council of State further writes: ‘The Government’s arrangements for the transitional regime are based on an overall assessment and it was important to cut through difficult borderlines and clarify the scheme in the future.’ It is impossible for me to understand that there are several difficult demarcations as to whether the power on the small power plants is more than 1 MW or whether they are below. I therefore ask the Council of State to explain the overall assessment and why there are difficult cut-offs for grants to installations with a power exceeding 1 MW, where this is not the case if the power is less than 1 MW.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1339	A unanimous committee points out that ‘in the light of the climate challenges, a targeted and good commitment to the creation of new small-scale power plants is important’. This sounds promising, as it's about increasing the investment in renewable energy — and especially hydropower, which is the cleanest and cheapest energy we can produce. Increased investment in hydropower is both environmentally friendly and forward-looking. At the same time, it must be allowed to point out that it is high time that something happened, seven years after the red-greens took over the work that Right and Bondevik II started to put in place green certificates and thus also more new renewable energy – seven years from they took over and until this really starts. The tragic thing about this matter is that all those who chose to bet and who took a high economic risk with construction start-ups already in 2004-2009 are now being punished by the fact that the government parties use their majority to reject the opposition proposal, which asks for construction start-ups from January 2004 and which qualify for green certificates from 2012 to be included in the transitional regime. Here we're talking about farmers and landowners in the districts who have made big investments and borrowed loans in good faith, because they just made it a big deal asked them to do. Despite that, the government is now rejecting the opposition proposal. With this, the government has tricked 1,500 farmers and landowners around the country and imposed an annual loss of 400 million. kr, by failing to follow up own promises made by decisions taken in Stortinget, in the campaign and in Soria Moria. The government is failing farmers and landowners, owners of 150 to 160 small power plants who all wanted to contribute to the country's clean renewable energy and who were suggesting that this would come under the green certification scheme. The government's breach of promises is intertwined in the sequence of several Lifting Breaks, such as: in the case of biodiesel. On 6 April we read in Sunnmørsposten – and I quote the leader of the Small Forces Association in Norway, Trond Ryslett: ‘We were tricked around.’ On 4 May the Nations had the following two quotes from the Central Party’s local team leader in the municipality of Norddal at Sunnmøre, Egil Berge: ‘The government does not hold on to any of their promises when writing Soria Moria or holding elections.’ And... ‘I do not know who dares to claim that this government is pursuing an environmentally sound policy.’ Berge also stated in today's edition of the Sunnmørspost the following: ‘The government spends 7 billion to protect the rainforest, but they say it is too expensive to support its own production of renewable energy. Understand him who wills." I understand the frustration of the Center Party's own trustees. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1381	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1384	The State must be a reliable and stable player and must be willing to bear part of the economic risk when a particular development is sought. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in this matter, and many feel tricked up in the struggle of big business and government. This matter has the same effect as biodiesel to reduce trust between authorities and investors, especially in green technology. This trust is based on the fact that many individuals and businesses have invested in small-scale power plants since 2004, and many are proud that the hold of a congested collapse would be followed. Instead, we now see that the red-green government is running out of responsibility, and a number of individuals and businesses that have made large investments and have taken significant financial risks in building out renewable energy, in other words, have done what they asked for. Those who took the most risk were punished. And the government's transitional arrangement does not premium for runaways, entrepreneurship or development, but for maintenance and those who sit on the fence. The party of progress thinks this is very unfortunate, cf. Blessing Minister for Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs, who said: ‘I would like to stress that those building up power generation are not now going to lose on it by introducing a green certificate market.’ Clearly it can't be said; it gave the lead to a great many bets on this green technology. In addition, a joint Committee on Energy and the Environment stated that all those investing in technologies that become green certificates should be included in the transitional regime and no restrictions should be suggested. This is to keep an entire industry for fools. Departing State Secretary Guri Størvold in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, among others. to the centre party member Egil Berge concerning the small force and green certificate that you must ‘be sure that your lot is still to be trusted’. The centre party, in particular, remains completely discredited in this matter, which is of course important to the districts, while we politicians have received a resounding reputation. This is also underlined by all the small power plants that it operates. They characterize it as a breach of promise that the red-green parties vote against this proposal from the opposition. Of the 185 power plants built after 2004, only 35 are allowed to enter the certificate market with the government’s scheme. And for those who have invested in small power plants, in the belief that they would be included in this support scheme, this is very serious. These are landowners in the districts who have made large investments and made large loans, in the belief that politicians can be trusted. They have not been in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1404	A real man stands by his promises, even when it costs. Half a man breaks his promises, but at least admits it. There is no parliamentary expression about a man who breaks his promises, breaks the government's promises and then denies it. The promise was that the transitional arrangements would include the same power plants as in the final system. It was the principal promise that was made. The Council of State is trying to avoid referring to old questions from me and my colleagues, where we have criticized the government for wanting to have a final system that doesn't have all the small power plants, because the government in the Soria Moria statement excluded small power plants from the green licence market. There was a political disagreement between the government and the Progress Party in the previous period as to where the final level would lie. There's no doubt about it. That is exactly why we tried to push the government to raise this level. We knew that it would be a sensible energy policy, and it might park SV's resistance to small power plants. But the fact that we disagree politically on the level of the final system does not change the fact that the fundamental promise underpinning it is to be taken care of. Had the government stood firm on the Soria Moria I declaration and said that the final scheme would be 1 MW, and then the transitional scheme would also be 1 MW. Then I would have respected it. I had probably been pretty mad because the level had been so low, but it's about politics. Being committed to a promise that is given is about something completely different. It's about honor, being credible and being able to provide trust. The honesty that politicians should have, not least the government, even when a unanimous bigotry says so, we do not see in this matter. One now tries with substituting arguments to pretend that there is no connection between the promise that was given, and that is what the matter is about. This case is about one in 2003 so that the talk in Stortinget about getting into a green certification market caused small-scale producers – especially small-scale producers – to put their projects on ice pending the system. Just because this is about small power producers – I hope Snorre Serigstad Valen listens – then State Council Steensnæs went out with that promise. It was the direct coin of the small power producers. That is why it is so important that we also take care of the promise when the small-scale producers have done what they were suggested: Invest now and you will be in the scheme when it comes. Alternatively, we could say, no, until we know what it is, there will be no promises about transitional arrangements either. What had been the result? The result had been that most of the small power projects had been put on ice. We had missed the current they would have produced until 2012. It wouldn't have been a sensible energy policy. But the cost of 2012 would have been the same as if we had included these in the transition scheme, because then the projects would come. That's why there's no money to save on this, and there's a lot of honor to earn by turning from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1422	I hope this feels like a bad day for the government and for the Center Party, because it shouldn't be easy to do what they're doing today. In the head of the Address Paper on Saturday, they say that today there are many people who have every reason to feel tricked around. ‘Many rural communities around the country have been investing in small-scale power plants in the last few years. They have done so in confidence that the deployment of renewable energy is a priority policy area. Today, many people have every reason to feel fooled." I think that the introduction to the Address Paper manager describes the situation quite well. ‘Round lurch’ is a comprehensive and good concept in this matter for all those in District Norway who believed in the government’s promises that the development of renewable energy is a priority policy area. It almost seems that the representatives of the Centre Party in this room do not take the situation into account, and do not in any way understand how this is felt by people who feel it on the body. All those who have invested and invested, who believed in the government's promises – not least those who believed in the Center Party – feel lost, also because they know that there is a majority in the Stortinget, there is a majority in this Chamber today when we are going to vote on the matter. Many of the leaders of the Center Party believed that the party was to be trusted. Unfortunately, the Center Party once again shows that they are not. Unfortunately, the game doesn't fulfill its promises, and we see that repeatedly in this hall. The centre party breaks its promises regarding the power situation in Central Norway. The centre batch breaks its promises in the case of motor travel in the outland. The centre party breaks its promises regarding the beach zone issue. The centre party is also breaking its promises in this case about green certificates. The center party has had every opportunity to turn around and do anything to repair some of the damage that they're doing to all the landowners, all the shareholders, who are now losing large values. Here we are talking about the core voters of the party, and the party is failing its core areas. I can't help but understand that it has to feel pretty bad for the representatives of the Center Party to treat landowners in this way in the district. Here we are talking about the people who focus on nutrition development and contribute to activity in District Norway. Unfortunately, we cannot interpret the signals in any other way than that value creation in the districts is not valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1438	I have to deal with some of the things that the representative Henriksen came up with, that he understood that the system could now feel unfair. But what was going on was that you should go into the scheme that the Small Forces Association wanted for the plants that were built from 2004 it would cost money. That's probably where the problem goes deep for the social democrats. Making money is not good, so they won't give any support to those who make money," said Henriksen. But they could not provide support for those who had poor facilities either. That is an attitude that I must say is incompatible with good manners, in relation to what you have promised in the past. So to the representative Serigstad Valen: he also understood that people felt bad, but it had to be borderlined, and that's what the council said. He found it unfair that you might have to pay 1.2 billion. kr for works and installations built between 2004 and 2009, because it would be at the expense of those who would invest in wind power and bio. It seems that the representative Serigstad Valen does not understand that there is hydropower. That's what we have available in Norway. That's what we have a lot of opportunities to expand cheaply. But we have to move on. We have to drop hydro now, we have to go to bio and wind – maybe even sea winds would be good. So at least we get consumers, who are going to use that power, good bills. This is a clear violation of politicians' promises. It goes all over the industry. It's not just the red-green ones. It applies to everyone sitting in this hall. The inhabitants of the country can no longer trust us. The political debate is increasing enormously, and the interest in politics is decreasing. I have to say that for the Central Party, which is a district party, this must be a very difficult day. Small-scale owners are largely farmers who use this as a contribution to the operation in order to get living conditions out in the districts. That's what the Center Party should be for and support in full. The industry has shown that it can produce and build good installations. Then it's up to government and society to build networks, so that the stream that's being produced can be used by the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1466	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1475	This government will develop more renewable energy. There should be no doubt about it. I'll come back to it a little bit in my post. Sustainable use of hydropower resources is an important element of this effort. In the light of the climate challenges, upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants, combined with the prudent development of watercourses, will be a valuable contribution. I am convinced that much will happen in the hydropower sector in the years ahead. For the Workers' Party and the Government, there are the results that count, and the good solutions. One thing I think this room can agree on, and it's that things take time – that's just the way it is. In its letter to the Grand Duchy on this matter, the Council of State gave a good account of the legislation and guidelines in force in this area. In addition, a number of studies and projects relating to the upgrading and extension of existing hydropower plants have been carried out and started. The area is currently being worked very well. What we're experiencing here today is that the opposition parties continue with their dissatisfaction strategy. They continue to say that this government has made one breach of promises after another. But I don't think that's right. There are a lot of things that have been done. I'm going to make a big annoyance for the opposition with a statement about the positive things that have been done. I may think it's important to bring it forward too, but we don't hear anything about it. I'll do it point-to-point. Let me also remind you of the great pace shift in renewable energy, such as: was carried out in 2005. Then I don't understand, with my best will, why not the bourgeois government – with the Advance Party as a supporting party – took part of these grips in terms of climate challenges, renewable energy and a lot of other things when they had the opportunity to do so. Someone will have to explain that to me soon, because I have not received an answer to that. Let me give you a few examples. We've spent more than 7 billion since 2006 and until today. kr for renewable energy investment through Enova. Maybe we can agree on that. Furthermore, we have created an energy fund that is now up to 25 billion. kr, where the yield goes exclusively to the work of Enova in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. The government has committed Enova, through a new agreement with Enova, to deliver energy results of 18 TWh renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement from 2002 to 2011. And we have an agreement that they will deliver results of 40 TWh by 2020. In addition, we have significantly strengthened the NVE precisely in view of the development of renewable energy. This has led to an almost double concessional capacity of the NVE compared to 2005. The government has also concluded an agreement of intent with Sweden for the establishment of a green certificate market from January 2012, as has been said several times here. In addition to this, we have put in place a law on marine energy, which will be an important framework for the future development of renewable energy at sea. I think this list is quite good. I might still have a little bit, but I guess time doesn't allow that. These are just a few examples of the great shift in the pace of our national renewable energy policy. It's a time for plans and a time for action. The time for beautiful words, investigations and plans is far too far past. We need more energy, no more documents and investigations. I am very pleased that we are in position, that there are energy-producing parties that govern this country, and that what underlies our hydropower policy is a comprehensive concession treatment, where the concession authorities weigh off the benefits and disadvantages of a hydropower action through overall assessments. We're still going to keep a rough track of the energy issues. But as I said initially, things take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1509	I should have almost said that the most credible thing in the government's energy policy is the last name of the previous speaker. The starting point for our proposal is inter alia: a few years ago, the Prime Minister said that ‘the time for large hydroelectric installations has passed’. Over the past year, Minister of State Kristin Halvorsen has said that Norway first had hydropower, then we had oil and gas, now we have to move on to renewable energy. It is a view of hydropower as if it belonged to the past, but the Progress Party wants it to belong to the future. This is not about having a dissatisfaction strategy. It's about wanting to get good guidelines and good framework conditions to develop our main power supply industry. Actually, this should be part of an overall energy message. It has not come from the government, nor has it been notified. As the previous speaker said that the time has not come to produce large documents, I almost perceive that this means that the government must also scrape its oil message – unless the type of rhetoric is connected. There may not be a need for an oil notification, but there is no need to have predictability and flooding messages on the hydropower and energy side. So that's a substituting argument, because the oil message I expect them to present. What's our point is that we want a political strategy paper, adopted in Stortinget, which puts the long-term leadership in our main power industry. What we've seen under this government is that it's been built up hydropower. No one refuses. The question is whether we could have gotten more. My claim is yes. Could we gain greater confidence from the industry, so that they dare to trigger investments? My answer is yes. After all, the previous debate on small power plants and transitional schemes for green certificates testify to an industry that is quite cursed by the government. If you talk to larger power producers, they will also point out that there are constant tax changes, back and forth, depending on who wins the rematch – an example of their lack of the line they should have had. Everyone knows that SV is a great opponent in many of these matters. Fortunately, the center part is a champion, but most and most when they're in opposition. Because when they're in position, they owe it to them to lose for the Workers' Party in the Oil and Energy Department. I think that's sad. But in such a big message, the government could have presented a unified vision of what they want with the hydropower in the future. We know that Enova, who is the government's apparatus for fulfilling some of the promises of renewable policies, and who largely supports everyone here in Stortinget – the Progress Party has been most sceptical – has no influence on hydropower deployment. No visions have been delegated to Enova for the purpose of investing in hydropower. But hydropower is significant today in Norway. I expect that some will dwell on how good we have been, but this debate should be about how good we will be in the future as well. What are we going to do with existing hydropower in terms of upgrade and upgrade? If we are to become Europe's battery, which many have visions of, what will it take to expand this in order to drive our hydropower plants harder? What will be the impact on natural values, for example: for salmon fishing in these areas? We can't just stand and talk about saving the world with Norwegian hydropower, without taking into account what major changes it actually means both environmentally and investmentally to enable our hydropower plants to deliver power to especially others than ourselves. What do we want with our small power plants? And not least, what do we want with new, large hydropower? And what do we want with the Norwegian supplier industry in the hydropower sector? We know that Statkraft and other actors through SN Power are investing heavily in hydroelectric development in other countries. We still have a good reputation as suppliers and within hydroelectric technology, but the rumors gradually disappear, which we do not bet on from the Norwegian side. I believe that by intervening early now, a person could maintain what he has, strengthen it and make sure that Norwegian technology is used more extensively. The government would like to start investing and making sure that Norwegian companies left the world and built environmentally friendly renewable energy and got climate allowances from it, instead of going into the market and buying from questionable projects or from large foreign companies. Finally: dissatisfaction strategy. It's a bad excuse for you not being able to deliver yourself. I'm not impressed by mediocrity. Yes, everyone acknowledges that a lot of money has been allocated to renewable energy now. The question is, why was this renewable fund created? Well, it was created as a consequence of the government failing in its work on green certificates in 2006. This with the renewable fund was not the solution primarily, it was a fallback because it all really wanted, did not work. That's the same thing about Enova's goal. Has the representative Stroem read the Riksrevision's assessments of Enova's work? I take up the proposal that we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1532	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. State Council Kristin Halvorsen is probably flattered at being named Minister of State, but that title does not exist in our state system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1537	I'm afraid that's part of what I'm saying today, which is in a certain contrast to the case-speaker Stream's article. Energy issues have been one of the most important international political issues in the last decades. The climate challenge is, of course, an important reason for this. Most greenhouse gas emissions are related to the use and production of energy. Secure access to energy is the key to developing and improving the standard of living for billions of people in developing countries. Access to energy has also been in our part of the world. 1.6 billion people are currently lacking access to electricity. Energy security is also an important political issue in our part of the world. Our European neighbours have been forced to freeze through several of the last winters as a result of the gas price abuse between Russia and their neighbouring Ukraine and Belarus. There is an important reason, in addition to the climate challenge, for the EU to adopt an ambitious renewable energy investment directive with a renewable component obligation of at least 20 pst. by 2020. It's only in Norway, the energy storm power of Western Europe, that we live in a tornado sleep when it comes to discussing energy issues. Here it's not good to know what today's government thinks about the major energy policy challenges. Since 2005, the Red-Green Government, with its three Energy Councils, has only delivered a single big message on energy policy. There was a four-page issue of renewable energy, where most of the political content was actually withdrawn the following year. I guess there's going to be a pretty good side per State Council in the Oil and Energy Department. Moreover, it would be nice to manage a document where the government signals the direction it will take in energy policy. Nor has the size had any basis for a political discussion on the EU's renewable directive, despite the fact that we know that there will be significant consequences for Norway. The former energy minister, Åslaug Haga, in his time as the Council of State launched an energy message that one could see energy policy in context. That thought Right was a good idea. Unfortunately, it was only with the thought, because one of the first oil and energy ministers of the day did as he followed her, was to cancel the warning of the energy message. Every time we have drawn up energy and environmental policies with the oil and energy minister, our answer is either a moon landing at Mongstad or Enova. Now the moon landing has also been postponed, and Enova's energy reporting has been slaughtered by the National Audit Office. Then it is not free for me to feel a little like the little good in the adventure today – he who pointed out that the emperor had no clothes on. I think that energy issues should be high on the political agenda in Norway, assuring that the Stortinget takes time at regular intervals for a thorough discussion based on a government announcement. Norway is the largest producer of clean renewable energy in Europe. It is claimed with great weight that we are Europe's battery. Water power, of which we have a lot in our country, is an important stabiliser in the European power market. Despite the fact that much of the hydropower is expanded and much protected, it is still possible to use more of this renewable, emission-free energy source, which accounts for about 98 pst. of our power consumption. What has the red-green government done to facilitate more use of the water force? What I'm thinking about most is the Prime Minister's New Year speech where he announced that the time for the large hydroelectric power plants is over. I think we should instead look at the water force with new eyes. Today's technology leads to much less natural interference than it did in the 1950s and 1960s. It has been a raging technological development in this area. Today’s modern hydropower expansion is often barely visible in nature. In addition to conventional hydropower, there is much more to be gained through small scale hydropower expansion from mini, micro and small power plants. The NVE estimates the potential at land level of 25 TWh for new generation from small power plants. This is more than 20 pst. of current power generation, and it covers more than 80 pst. of the electricity consumption of Norwegian households. It is therefore a shame to see how those who have invested in small power plants in the last few years have been handled by the red-green government, cf. today's debate on green certificates. Investments in energy production are long-term and costly investments. It requires stable and good framework conditions. The potential for clean, renewable energy in Norway is among the largest in Europe, and Norway has a great responsibility to facilitate clean, renewable energy from Norway to make Europe capable of achieving the climate targets. These are some of the challenges and opportunities we face in energy policy, and it should be discussed in the context of an energy message, where it is home to a watershed message. Therefore, on behalf of the Right, I would like to support the submission of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1567	Over the last 100 years, hydropower has been a major factor in Norwegian wealth development. From the hydropower we have created industrial workplaces, and energy has given power to the thousands of homes, thus increasing living standards. The use of energy in transport, for heat, for electrical appliances is very important, not to say entirely decisive for the functioning of our society. It's impossible to see our country lead today without stable and good access to energy. Unlike many other countries, we take most of this energy from renewable energy sources, and especially from hydropower. This gives us valuable power generation at a time when we know that greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced if we are to avoid dramatic changes in climate and biodiversity on our planet. The Committee has repeatedly pointed to the value of our renewable hydropower resources, while pointing to the valuable watercourse nature we have in our country, and the responsibility we have to manage it in a good way. Many of our major watercourses are already developed, but at the same time there is a great untapped potential in expansion and upgrading projects, and not least in the construction of small and small and micro-power plants. Some of this potential is now being exploited as a result of the expansion of many smaller rivers with smaller power plants. This is gratifying, not least given the importance of this energy production for our country in the long term, and what it means for the environment. Upgrading and development projects in existing power plants also represent a significant potential in the years to come. It is quite clear that there have been limited challenges to the NVE's capacity to manage matters as a result of the increase in the number of new energy projects. This handling capacity has been significantly strengthened in recent years, and it helps to ensure that the processing time per project goes down, even if one has to admit that due to the huge amount of time involved, there is a long waiting time for many projects. In addition, the government has invested in a number of measures to promote new, renewable energy production. I am not going to repeat the measures that the case-speaker did in an outstanding way – and lived up to his last name in that way – but just stress that there has been a considerable effort. And now there's a proposal for a representative for a big-scale report on hydropower. When I refer to the measures taken by the government in this area, it is to emphasise the focus one has just on taking action and getting new renewable projects realized – not just by cutting the procedure time, but by offensively investing through Enova and by providing more funds to the Energy Fund, thereby increasing the overall framework for renewable energy production. Web sites have discussed earlier here as well as other measures. In the view of the majority, new projects are now primarily needed to generate new renewable energy, and not more plans. And it must be allowed to say that representatives from the Progress Party in the last few years in this Chamber have proposed plans for almost everything we can think of sectors in the energy field. Should the party have had a say in this way, the ministry would have been largely employed as a planning department and not as the initiator of important policies for new renewable energy production. So I have to say that it's easier to stick to the concrete proposals of the party. On the other hand, I would like to commend the Progress Party for raising the debate on hydropower generation, not only because of the historical significance of this production for our country, but because it may seem that some sometimes forget how important hydropower production is to us. All the production of energy leads to interference in nature. As politicians, it is our job to help us find the right balance between the value of natural resources while safeguarding the environment through the production of renewable energy. Parts of Norwegian natural resources do not seem to have come to realize that renewable energy production leads to natural interference, because, at the same time, the government is constantly criticising the lack of sufficient incentives to increase renewable energy production in order to save the environment, is one and demonstrates almost all forms of renewable energy production. It's not in the pile. Sometimes we have to make a choice between environmental protection and nature protection, and sometimes I believe it is right to re-examine this discussion in the light of the climate challenges we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1590	Norway is a country with a lot of hydropower. There have been wise women and men in earlier times who have facilitated hydroelectric development. It has helped create jobs. It has helped to develop our districts and our entire country. For the Christian People's Party, this is linked to a thought of being good administrators, of using the resources we have, in a sensible and gentle way, at the same time using them to create development. The Progress Party today calls for a global report on hydropower policy. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe it is more appropriate to take a more holistic approach and see energy and the climate challenges we have in the context, and therefore we believe that there is a need for an energy and climate communication. Because we have a climate crisis. We know that the main reason for the situation we're facing is that we've been using too much fossil energy. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change gives us the time until 2015 to reverse the trend in CO2 emissions, whose goal is to achieve the 2°C target. I am glad that this is still the target in relation to the temperature increase. But time is beginning to run out. 2015 is not many more years, so action is now required at home. We can not just lean back and say that the financial crisis is resolving, but we need to implement concrete measures. We also know that the world needs more right-type energy in relation to the evolution we want for the world, because we want people to get out of poverty. Then more energy is needed, but then it is also important that we be able to provide energy that does not increase emissions, so that we can manage a transition to energy use that reduces the greenhouse gas emissions we have seen in the past. In 2008 we presented the Stortinget climate agreement here with bold targets, important targets. What is crucial now is that the government begins to deliver content in relation to these objectives. When you hear case rapporteur Stroem, the time for plans is now over, and it is time for action. In this context, at least it's an important signal, but I don't think we're going to be completely blind to the fact that sometimes it can be important to make new plans. From the Christian People's Party we believe that there is a deficiency in our Norwegian political system right now that we do not see the energy and climate challenges together. That is why, through this attitude, we have called for an energy and climate action plan, which we know is also supported by businesses and organisations that are currently operating in these sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1606	The beginning of the article should seem familiar to this assembly! For the government, it is central to facilitating a significant increase in our renewable energy production. Sustainable use of hydropower resources is an important element of this effort. In the light of the climate challenges, upgrading and expansion of existing hydroelectric power plants combined with the prudent development of watercourses will be valuable contributions. Today, the government is facilitating the realisation of environmentally sound hydropower projects. Through investigations, we get to the areas that need more thorough follow-up by the authorities. Norway’s watercourse and energy Directorates have carried out and launched a number of studies and projects to identify the technical and environmental potential of hydropower, including in the context of exploitation of e.g. pumping power and wind power resources we have at our disposal. All power generation has consequences for nature and the environment. It is important to provide increased knowledge of all the effects of renewable energy, including more knowledge of existing and, where appropriate, changed use of hydropower. The government supports, among other things, Environmental energy research centre (CEDREN) is working to gain more knowledge about, among other things. effects of power driving, possibilities for more power generation and more salmon, etc. The NVE has also been identified with the environmental impact of rapid changes in water levels. Awareness of these contexts will help to ensure that hydropower resources can also be managed in the future in a way that takes the utmost account of important environmental values. The representatives call for a survey of the Norwegian hydropower potential. The NVE is responsible for providing an overview of both existing power plants and the potential for new projects. NVE maintains statistics on just the hydropower potential in Norway and publishes annual statistics on the energy potential, the protection, the projects under development, the concession and the NVE for treatment. The concessional capacity of the NVE in recent years has been considerably strengthened. Hydropower applications are a high priority in concession treatment. A number of measures have also been implemented to reduce and streamline the duration of the NVE. I take it for granted that the increased resources for concessional treatment given to NVE by this government will give lower procedural time as the improvements work. The power to grant concession to hydropower plants below 10 MW was delegated to NVE in 2004. From this year on, the power to grant a concession for power builds of less than 1 MW is transferred to the county municipalities. It would be natural to gain experience of this work before further changes are implemented. While working on framework conditions and investigations, we also grant permits for a number of new hydroelectric power projects. In the years 2006-2009, a final concession was granted for an annual production of 3,4 TWh of new hydropower. The representatives are calling for support to the supplier industry. The large number of new concessions granted ensures activity in Norway. However, the government also supports the internationalisation of the industry, including in particular: through INTPOW and UD's clean energy deployment. For my part, I had the pleasure of being part of this venture last week when I was in China. I see that precisely internationalisation in this area is something that works from the Norwegian side. Representatives are calling on the government to promote a deposit notification on Norwegian hydropower policy. As I have explained, the government and the watercourse authorities are making a major and significant effort to use the hydropower in a gentle manner, and we are reaping results from this. I cannot see, therefore, that there is a single biggest message about the hydropower policy now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1632	The previous case of small-scale energy policy testifies to the need to have long-term sustainability and obligations in it. In its statement, the Council of State now referred to a number of processes such as: takes place in NVE. There are processes that I think are good and important. And then I have recorded in this debate that SV has not taken the floor. I see that as very positive in this context. However, the question is: will all these processes and work within the government in any way be submitted to the Stortinget, in order to have both discussions and, not least, attempts at a broad compromise on the future use of hydropower, so that there may be framework conditions that persist across possible and probable government shifts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1642	If the representative Solvik-Olsen wants to participate in the processes within the government, I think the representative must be part of the government. I believe that neither the representative nor the undersigned sees this as particularly topical. What are processes towards the government's conclusions is, of course, just that, processes. But what's important about the work and the commitment that I see absolutely that the Solvik-Olsen representative has in this area is the practical policy, that we come up with good solutions that help to realize projects. I think it is good that the representative gives credit to the NVE for the processes that go there. There is a good overview of what we have of resources in Norway within this, and we see that it actually happens quite a lot to expand the smaller watercourses now. So there'll be some adjustments to that between the different years. But I'm saying that we're now in a good phase, good time, to get projects realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1649	Hydropower has enormous potential in Norway. I think we are in complete agreement on that. The Prime Minister, in his New Year's speech, said that 'the time for the major hydroelectric projects is over'. My question is very simple today – I will only ask it once: does the Council of State agree with the Prime Minister in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1656	I was going to say that I am spending a lot of time on new dates for the time being! In the case of hydropower deployment, there is no doubt that the largest projects have been realized or would have been in watercourses already protected. The fabric was in that way the last of the major projects in which one assessed whether one should protect or expand. And when the Wefsna decision was taken, the reality became, as the Prime Minister pointed out, that the big projects were seen on a Norwegian scale and a little bit backwards in time. Fortunately, under the major projects there are many interesting, important projects. They're definitely the government's concern to realize, and we're working on that to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1663	The same opposition that shouts for content has a sad record of its Bondevik II government. We cannot blame the Progress Party for that, with its lack of governance experience. However, the care of the Right for hydropower is reflected in a policy for unclean gas, which they want to push into the market. Under our leadership, on the other hand, climate objectives are strengthened, support via Enova has increased dramatically, and we are not the citizens who have put in place a system of green certificates in cooperation with Sweden. Does my council share my opinion of and stated that the opposition's gap between rhetoric and its own merits is gradually becoming a little bit big?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1670	I think the representative Serigstad Valen gave a very good description of the situation, so I'm behind the assessment because there's a lot to do in this area. And it's probably also that there's a lot of different input into the options.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1675	Governments provide many examples of action in the hydropower sector in Norway, and that is good. But does not the Council of State see the importance of overall plans? Before putting things in context, you have to have plans, for example: for total efforts in the hydropower sector, intermediate targets, milestones, so that you can control how far you have come, progress, consumption, profits in the Nordic region – maybe we have too much power here – network needs in Norway and abroad, technology conservation and the supplier industry, i.e. the things that are important – not just a list, but something that you can measure the government's work at all times. That's what we're asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1680	I think, subject to many examples being drawn out, that we have good statistics and a good overview in the areas that the representative here is drawing up. Reality, in the energy field, as in other areas in Norway, is that we have very good information, we have a good overview of what we are doing – and the representative mentioned many examples here. So it's not like we don't have the overall plans either. Enova has been brought forward many times here today. Enova’s activities are guided by very clear plans, letters of allocation and policy framework. The same applies in relation to the letters of allocation given to the NVE and the framework provided for the activities there each year. So we don't have to make it the only overall framework from which an enterprise is governed is one type of message. There's a lot of generality going on as a framework for our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1689	Governments and signatories are probably offensive to how much results the government has to boast of in relation to what an alternative government could deliver. My claim is that today's opposition would deliver greater results than the Government of the State Council, although there will be a bit of a hypothetical debate. At the same time, I note that the Council of State tends to be offensive that they have used more gas in Norway, even if it is not cleaning. Governments tend to be offensive to the fact that they have granted more exploration licences for oil drilling than the previous government, and that they have been more offensive to hydropower than the previous government. All these are issues that SV in the opposition has been completely opposed to being offensive to. The question then is: is the Council satisfied that SV in position has become a satisfied little pussy cat in their questions to the government about what you have achieved and been offensive to?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1696	I don't think I want to use that term of any party. I have no other comment on this either than that I think the government in this area has come to many good and wise conclusions. The representative mentions the management of resources in the field of oil and gas activities. There I think we have a lot to boast about what has been done in recent years. And for what we're now discussing, hydropower, I mean the same thing. I feel that there is one government that delivers one policy, and I think that is a good policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1703	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1708	I record that the opposition would like deposit messages about both the one and the other. This is not exactly about reducing bureaucracy, which they want to do at the same time. I'm not going to say that one doesn't need a big message as a basis for discussing future policies in different areas, but I'm not sure at all that a big message about hydropower, or energy and environment, as the Christian People's Party now pointed out, will be helping to improve water power policy in this country. At the same time, it is very good that there is a focus on hydropower policy, and that we get a discussion in the hall about him. Because we're a few about a lot of things. One is that we should try to streamline our energy production and use. The second is that we still need more new and renewable power, where solar, wind and bio will of course be significant, and wave power etc., but where one does not escape the fact that the water force also has to play a very important role in the future. I think Stoltenberg was right in saying that the time for the large hydropower projects was over. But now, 'large' is a relative change, so it's still that space and potential for many gentle developments in the future. When one talks about large and small power plants, we had a discussion in the previous case about this with small power plants. It's great that we're getting some small power plants built up, but we shouldn't think they don't have environmental or natural consequences. In fact, I have seen plans for small power plants that have made me very concerned, which have been almost more interference in nature than large, well-suited power plants. Therefore, each individual application has to be considered and adhered to. Traditionally, water power and environment have been set up against each other as a contrast. It's enough to think about Alta and Martyla, and wherever it may be. In all such cases, as I said, there is a balance. But many developments in recent times have shown that technology and the way to build water power have been much better than before. There are actually examples where I think they have contributed to the landscape being as good as it was before, one has got ponds with fishing facilities etc. Therefore, we do not need to see either black or white on this with hydropower and hydropower potential in the future. It is very important that the NVE now has its capacity strengthened, because that is where it has accumulated. And I hope that many very good power development plans can be realized in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1732	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1735	In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1742	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bjørn Lødemel on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1 is included on page 2 of the configuration, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1771	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy for an evaluation of the rules and practices for the construction of power lines, including a discussion around the borderline for the choice of air voltage versus ground or sea cable.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1797	During the debate, Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all installations starting from 1 January 2004 which qualify for green certificates from 2012 are included in the transitional regime’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1823	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Stortinget calls on governments to promote a monitoring report on Norwegian hydropower policy.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-03.ana.ud2616e1854	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
