ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e49	The representatives of Freddy de Ruiter, Karin S. Woldseth, Mette Hanekamhaug, Øyvind Waksdal, Geir Pollestad and Arve Kambe, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For Telemark County: Kåre Fostervold and Odin Adelsten Bohmann For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsävold The meeting of the alternate of Akershus County, Abid Q. Raja, is hereby convened to meet in Stortinget under the granted leave of the representative Borghild Tenden from 1 October to 5 November, instead of from 1 October to 29 October. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e103	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 182]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e121	Many different studies show the same thing: immigrant students have lower grades than immigrants, who in turn have lower grades than majority pupils. This difference exists in almost all schools, regardless of the proportion of pupils with a migrant background at school. Much of this can be explained by differences in social backgrounds. Some of this can also be explained by poor Norwegian skills in students with a migrant background. Before going further into the issues of the interpellation, I would like to make some conceptual clarifications, so that it is clear to all the student groups I am looking for. When I say "Immigrant student", I refer to students who have migrated themselves. When I say ‘Norwegian born with immigrant background’, I refer to students born in Norway with immigrant parents. The terms ‘children with migrant backgrounds’ and ‘minority-speaking’ refer to both pupils born in Norway by immigrant parents and those who have migrated themselves. Behind these terms lies a number of shades. None of the terms say, for example. something about how good students are to speak Norwegian, or how motivated they are to learn. However, when discussing these student groups is interesting, it is because you can see systematic statistical differences in the performance of the student groups. It tells us something about where the shoe prints in School-Norway. The school is an important arena for inclusion and the main cornerstone of social mobility. A good school must be able to provide both professional and social competence. This means, for example: that the students are not only to master the subject of Norwegian. They shall also master the social and cultural codes in the ‘Norwegian’. Both types of knowledge are necessary to succeed later in life. Therefore, I am concerned that students with a minority background have lower primary school credits than the majority of students. And that's why I'm worried that there are schools in our capital where a clear majority of students have a minority background. However, although it is not a problem in itself that many with minority backgrounds attend the same school, it limits the exposure of the student to Norwegian customs, social codes and Norwegian language expressions that provide in-depth understanding of the language. Students don't just learn from the teachers. They also learn from each other. They learn that their experiences are inflamed with those of others, and that they learn to see the world from the place of their fellow students. Similarly, students in schools with no minority background are missing out on experience with the new Norway. Minority students in Oslo make up a total of 40 pst. of all those who attend school in the capital. At the same time, there are several schools in Oslo where the entire 90 pst. of the student population is minority language. This is the result of passive urban and housing policies locally, and the Minister of Knowledge, who is invited to debate, is therefore not responsible for this. However, when I pick it up, it's because the characterization of the different schools shows that in schools where there are many minority languages, the average is lower than in schools where there are almost no minority languages. When the daily newspaper of June last year compared with the graduation exams at the Oslo schools, the speech of the figures was clear: the five schools with fewer minority language students achieved on average more than a whole number character better in the core subjects. In Norwegian, the average was 3.9 at schools with few minority languages, while 2.9 at schools with very many minority languages. In math, the mean was 4.0 and 2.8, respectively. The Right Party and the Advance Party must therefore respond to why they are unable to raise primary school credits to immigrants in Oslo, because they are able to raise the results to the majority language students. The results of the Norwegian-born pupils with a migrant background in Oslo are as in other cities, but the immigrant population achieves almost two primary school points lower than elsewhere in the country. These are students who are failing the Right and Advance Party in the Oslo City Council. In addition, the school agency from the Right in Oslo underestimates the importance of having a segregated school day in the capital. He said to the Newspaper just before summer that now we have to stop making ethnicity a problem, and indicates that most of the differences can be explained with social background. Then he demonstrates that he has only understood half the problem. It's true that social background explains a lot, but you have to be a desktop theorist to honestly think that cultural communities are just social structures. When a father at Mortensrud says that it's completely irrelevant to him that his daughter will end up as the only Norwegian in class, and he rhetorically asks who to identify with, he puts his finger on an important part of the problem. Community is not just about Norwegian languages but about having a common reference framework. The resourceful students with a migrant background master both the adventures of Espen Askeladd and the dramaturgy of the Bollywood films. They both know what it means to be ‘the seventh father of the house’ and what it means to be ‘a real 420’ – which is a Hindu expression for being a fool. Those who are not equally resourceful do not get this depth understanding in one or both languages. They never get the cultural reference framework you need to master this. Right, I'd like to think that pointing this out is about making ethnicity a problem. In reality, it shows that the discussion about the number of minority speakers in some schools is not only a debate on characterization, but also a debate on mastering cultural reference frameworks that are so central to Norway that you fall through if you can't do it properly. The father from Mortensrud, whom I referred to instead, chose to move to another part of the city where the student composition looked different. The housing pattern in Oslo cannot be changed overnight. When the offices of the Right Party and the Advance Party do not give priority to municipal housing, it will not be easier to change the housing pattern either. Oslo Arbeiderparti will build more municipal dwellings and spread them better, so that the capital is not so divided. And we've arranged to re-evaluate the school circles to get a more balanced student composition in the schools. When I spend so much time at the schools in Oslo, it's because this is the city where most people live with immigrant backgrounds, and where school life is most divided depending on where you live. In addition, the situation in Oslo may be a priority for the other major cities in Norway. That's why Oslo is interesting. Finally, I would like to highlight how dependent we are on all students succeeding in school. Students in Norway have footholds in over 150 different language backgrounds. Many of them possess basic knowledge in languages such as Russian, Portuguese, Arabic and Chinese, to give some examples. These are language skills that Norwegian businesses will need in the future. That's how we're going to be happy that Norwegian school has students with a lot of different language backgrounds. But without an equally solid foothold in the subtleties of the Norwegian language and the common Norwegian reference framework, students will not succeed in working or social life. With this, I would like to know how the Minister of Knowledge will help minority-speaking people also get the knowledge they need to succeed, regardless of the student composition at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e172	I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Tajik is raising this debate with the starting point she is taking. First, she points out that students with a minority background, who, in addition to Norwegian, master other languages at native level, are a resource for society. Secondly, she points to the variation between students with a minority background. In the public debate on these issues, the nuances that I think interpellant are now just paying attention to, and I am looking forward to the further debate on this. Many students with a minority background are multilingual and good in Norwegian, while others have problems with Norwegian – especially those who have come to Norway in the middle of the school cycle and who have to learn a whole new language when they are both 10, 12 and 14 years old. Those born and raised in Norway with a long relationship here have a completely different type of challenge. Among those who have attended good schools in their home country before they arrived in Norway, students who are skilled in most of the things except Norwegian — which they must learn, of course — are found, while other children, who come to Norway when they are a little older, may be in the situation that they have never gone to school before. This diversity is what we discuss when discussing schooling for children with a minority background. The group of pupils we should be particularly concerned about and aware of is young people coming to Norway late in the educational cycle. We need to put a lot of emphasis on quickly getting into a good education track and getting help to complete higher education. That's the key to standing on your own feet in Norwegian society. The same applies to adults who come to Norway with little education. Education is also for them the key to integration. Without these nuances and an understanding of the complexity of the challenges, we will not succeed in finding action that works and that makes us good at dealing with the diversity that exists in the population. There's a lot of positive. Meeting people with a different background gives us new perspectives. But it's also demanding. I have great respect for the challenges that teachers face every day when they have to deal with a student group in which many do not manage Norwegian well enough. Cultural differences can also create misunderstandings and conflicts. The lack of diversity can also be a problem. How do we understand that Norway is a multicultural society if all students at school are bright in the skin and have relatives from Norwegian communities? How do students get a good understanding of Norwegian traditions and Norwegian social codes, as the representative Tajik points out, if few students at school have parents with Norwegian as their mother tongue? There can be no doubt that the simplest thing for schools and students would be if we could adopt here today that all schools should have a varied student composition that reflects the population base around them and in Norway as a whole. That's how we know that it's not possible to face these problems, and not desirable to meet these challenges. Oslo is primarily a classy city – it's just to foam through the evening post's ad to get it documented – and Oslo has always been a classy city. So many of the issues we are discussing in this context are related to what is a challenge for Oslo every single day, and that has been so long before the discussion was about minority speakers. The housing market is divided into classes, the working life is also divided into classes, and the class differences have a clear ethnic dimension. Many of the cheapest dwellings are populated by people with immigrant backgrounds – simply because they are less deserving – and very many of the low-paid services we rely on in everyday life are provided by workers with migrant backgrounds. I believe that this is the main reason why we have had a too one-sided student composition at many Oslo schools, both in the East and in the West. The reasons are housing and economic conditions, and the basic solutions for this are also there. We need a varied living environment in Norway and a good mix of students at all schools, but it is not the schools or the children who are going to take responsibility or miss out on a classed Oslo. This summer we have had a lively debate on the crooked student composition. Not least it was speeding up when a former school bureaucrat from the Christian People's Party wanted their own Norwegian classes at Stovner. Others have arranged for bussing. All students in Norway have the right to attend their secondary school. The secondary school principle has been incorporated into the Training Act, and the membership of the secondary school has an impact far beyond what is happening in the hours. In Oslo, there are so-called free school choices, which means that parents and students can apply to primary schools other than the secondary school if there is room for them there. It's all right as long as this doesn't affect anyone's right to go to their community school. So that someone voluntarily chooses to go to school on another side of the city, there's no problem. What I think would be completely wrong is to implement these kinds of measures by force. As far as bussing is concerned, it must be a voluntary initiative by parents seeking a different solution. In any case, busing will never be the answer to the challenges we face with regard to the composition of student groups in Oslo School, where minorities dominate in some schools, and the majority are almost unique in other schools. The alternative to such a policy will be to ensure that we have a strong commitment to the quality of school provision for everyone living in an area where a majority of students are minority-speaking. The schools that are overweight with minority language students must be simply good at Norwegian training, bilingual vocational training — support multilingualism, so that students can take care of their mother tongue while learning Norwegian. Schools must be provided with adequate teaching skills to deal with this and sufficient numbers of teachers to provide good, adapted training to all students. We need a systematic upgrading of the school to ensure that all students experience an inclusive school and good conditions to learn what is needed to grow up in Norway as a full member of the Norwegian community. That was the background for former Minister of Knowledge Bård Vegar Solhjell setting up a sample for a public investigation into this, the so-called Eastberg Committee. The NOU «Mangfold and mastering» is now being consulted and will be followed up. This investigation is a continuation of the government's exposure to this. The hearing period shall be 1 November. We come back with proposals on how to follow up on this, but much of the tone from the interpellant is also in the Østberg Committee's investigation, which is to look at the enormous resources that we have among children who have the opportunity to have two native languages – a multilingualism that we have not seen what opportunities there are. Let me draw out three main areas where it's been systematically invested. Firstly, increased kindergarten participation. Now go 95 pst. of children with a minority background in kindergarten before they begin school. It's a great opportunity to develop language, social knowledge and knowledge, crack codes, find a place. I have been around many schools that have received children from kindergartens with free core time. They report that they have a much more school-prepared group of children, and it is much easier to get started with what is the school’s core tasks: systematic learning and concentration on basic skills. We know that the girls in particular benefit greatly from the offer of free core time. It gives us some challenges with regard to minority boys – what do we do to make sure that they get a faster offer? In the context of the high-quality child care report, the majority – all opposition parties voted against, to my great surprise – have agreed to monitor children’s language development in kindergarten, not through traditional testing, but through systematic observation. We now have a separate sample that looks at how we can work systematically on this. It gives us a starting point for early action. Secondly, we need to have better quality in basic Norwegian education for those who start school without being able to Norwegian. In 2008, the second language system of Norwegian was removed. We are now working on how to strengthen Norwegian education for this group of children. Thirdly, we must make sure that we meet all children with respect for their faith and traditions. That's why I'm glad we now have a purpose paragraph and an RLE subject that makes us live up to the standard that the European Court of Human Rights requires of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e208	I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for a nuanced and reflected response. I also appreciate the fact that the Minister of Knowledge acknowledges the importance of cultural reference frameworks for everyday school life and that it is demanding for teachers who practice in a school that is very culturally diverse. I feel that the studies and reports you have in this field are undermining this since everyday school life. In response, the Council of State was concerned with the importance of kindergarten and free core time to get the Norwegian skills you need to master school everyday. I'm glad. It has meant a lot to Oslo that you have had free core time. At the same time, there are still some challenges. For the first time, the effect of free core time in kindergarten has been measured and a report has recently been published in this area. It shows that there are differences in results and that it is about gender. It can be seen that girls with immigrant backgrounds who have used free core time in two out of three leaving courses were on average a whole character above the girls with immigrant background in Oslo who had not used free core time. At the same time, it can be seen that the boys with a migrant background who had taken advantage of the same offer do not get equally good school results. For the girls, you close up a whole 80 pst. of the character gap between the girls with and without a migrant background. It applies widely, for all subjects, not only to the linguistic disciplines, but to mathematics, to natural sciences and to other subjects. So it's important for the whole range of subjects, and it's important for the ability to succeed throughout the school cycle. Then you can also see that boys with immigrant backgrounds, mostly boys who have migrated themselves, are struggling with these things, even in high school, with the result that boys who have migrated themselves fall considerably more frequently in high school than the average. Therefore, I would like to know how the Council of State will proceed to get boys with immigrant backgrounds to perform better in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e219	It's a very interesting follow-up question that the representative Tajik now comes up with, because we see so systematic and big differences between some boys with immigrant backgrounds and some girls with immigrant backgrounds. It says something about how much variation there is in the issues we're talking about here. I'm not sure that all of this can be solved in school. I also think there are some challenges in relation to the parent groups, related to different backgrounds. In fact, I pick up quite a few times when I discuss with parents who have migrated to Norway themselves, or who have a minority background, how it might be that among their girls we find some of the nicest students and students in Norway and many more who go on and take both high school and study, while among the boys we find some of them dropping out in the first turn. I think it has to do with different expectations for boys and girls. I think many boys with a minority background had deserved parents who had greater expectations for their school performance and followed up their interest in school. But I think, of course, that we also need to look at how school and kindergarten take children with a minority background, and whether there is a much stronger gender dimension there than what we've known before. Many of the issues we see are the background to dropout in high school, and in some ways they are just a little bit more at the head of minority boys, because the problem of dropout does not start with 16-17-year-olds in high school. School and education often start much earlier, and it often starts with gaps in knowledge or lack of basic skills. Early efforts from kindergarten to kindergarten are a crucial part of the struggle to get more people to carry out. I also think that what we see is a problem, especially now that we're working on a message about high school, that the little bit too academical school makes some students not recognize or find their best ways to learn in school, maybe even more is a challenge for this group of students. I think a lot of what we're working on in general is about boys and girls in school, and not as much about minority backgrounds or not. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e234	I am pleased with the debate that the representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up here, and with the positive response that she has received from the Council of State. I can imagine going into some of the measures I think we should put in to make improvements in this area. The debate starts by drawing on a kind of chain of action that we should look at in greater detail. There have been trials since 2007 with 20 hours free of charge at kindergartens in Oslo. It began with four parts of the valley of Grorud: it was extended to the south of the north, and from this year also to children from the age of three in the city of Old Oslo. Experience is very positive, both in the first evaluations from schools that have received those who have had free core time, and in the case of participation. It is now reported from these districts that up to 98 pst. of young children aged four to five are in kindergarten, at least with free core time, and more and more are also beginning to enter full-time when they have the first experience with kindergartens. There are a few issues related to Norwegian in kindergartens. When we give these 20 hours free to everyone, it's problematic that you get kindergartens close to each other – as we see in areas of the city areas of the Groruddalen, where there are only a few hundred meters between kindergartens that can be dominated by children with minority backgrounds, and kindergartens that can be dominated by children with ethnic Norwegian background – because there is an applicant pattern that nobody really wants, but that has arisen for different reasons, and sometimes random reasons. It makes no sense to give 20 hours free of charge in kindergarten to be together and learn Norwegian, learn from each other's culture, if you get the situations that I'm describing here. I believe that the Municipality of Oslo and the State together should talk about the premises for these 20 hours free in kindergarten, which is mainly financed by the state, in order to include as a criterion in these admissions at 20 hours free in kindergarten, when one has the opportunity to get a better mix, better prerequisites for learning Norwegian and teaching each other's culture, learn about each other's background, by being together in kindergarten instead of being separated. The second issue I think is important in relation to the kindergarten — which was also addressed by the Council of State — is language mapping along the way to see the results of this and also to be able to put together the departments in a sensible way, so that the departmental level of the kindergartens also ensures that it is Norwegian that becomes the common language and the basis for association. A third thing about free core time in kindergartens and getting a benefit from it is that the work being done to get parents on parental training, on Norwegian courses, on the basis that they follow the children to kindergarten, is an opportunity that should be used even more. When you get to school after having been in the free core time in kindergarten, I think it's important again to do a thorough language mapping, because that's the way I see it in Oslo today, that there are many children growing up, who have different skin color, but who grow up in Norwegian: they talk together in Norwegian at home, they play together in Norwegian, and they talk spikes, tense Eastern dialect in every way. I have been contacted by parents – and also seen some parents written about it – who wonder when they will be allowed to be considered Norwegian in the statistics. With regard to the characteristics of minority language at school, one parent has a minority ethnic background. There we have to start with a much more thorough language mapping of the concept etc., that the children who have really grown up in Norwegian, but have a different skin color, must be allowed to be considered Norwegian. When we have done a thorough language mapping, I believe that we can also put together the classes, build a class composition much more consciously than we do today, to make sure that Norwegian becomes the basis of teaching, the language you play in the schoolyard, the language you are in. We can do that to a great extent without the fact that there is in any way a majority of Norwegian ethnic backgrounds in these schools. We can also do that by being aware of the language skills of those who have different skin color, how many of them are actually Norwegian. Where we need it, I also want to go in order for us to look at school boundaries, but there can be a lot of work at a practical level here in Oslo School and elsewhere in the country, because Norway is still a country where we live close to each other with different backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e260	I want to thank the interpellant Tajik for focusing on the quality of primary school. The most important goal in school today is to equip students with basic skills in basic subjects of reading, writing and billing, and it is crucial for this country's future that we actually have a student mass that masters these challenges and masters the basic competence of the most important subjects. Unfortunately, we do not succeed in this today. 20 pst. by students leaving primary school without satisfactory results and skills in just reading, writing and math. These 20 pst. Not just in Oslo School, this isn't an Oslo phenomenon. This is a phenomenon we have all over the country, and shows the need to increase the quality of education and school everywhere. At the same time, we have a school that repeatedly shows that it reproduces social differences. Much of the reason for this is that many of the schools don't have the ability to teach well enough, so that their parents play a vital role in how much you learn and how well you learn in school. This means that those children who come from well-trained families and have resource-intensive families also do better at school, regardless of their ethnicity or background. Interpellant Tajik addresses problems of minority language pupils in school and the proportion of them in school. That's an important point, but at the same time we don't see this as a determining factor. What we see is that the social differences that are reproduced in school are just going on things other than ethnicity – like class affiliation, and that the minister of knowledge was in his post. By raising a debate on how to balance the differences, this factor is also of greater importance. What we better focus on is how to eliminate this as a significant factor in initial training. Then you need to focus on what can increase the quality of education throughout the country for all students, such as increasing the number of hours and focus on basic skills, as early efforts, as better follow-up of each student and as adapted training. Such a debate on how to raise the overall level of quality will also eliminate the challenge we face in relation to the reproduction of social differences and in relation to ethnicity and background. As the interpellant also mentioned, research shows that there is no proportion of minority language pupils in school who make up the differences, but that there are differences between students. Other surveys from schools in Norway also show that the largest differences are not between schools, between municipalities, but within school pupils. We must also focus on this when we discuss this matter. I hope that we do not limit the debate to an Oslo phenomenon, but rather to a problem of how to balance the differences in School Norway between students at national level. In the debate that has taken place in public, there has also been a discussion about student bussing. I'm glad that the Minister of Knowledge depreciates this as a solution, precisely because you have to find other ways to do it, and we can't start forcing students between schools. With regard to the interpellant Tajik mentioned cultural reference frameworks, which this father at Manglerud has talked about, I think it's also important to have common reference frameworks and see that it goes across all students wherever you are. A reference is ethnicity, or background. But we also have countless other types of reference frameworks. The aim and aim of the school must be to create an arena, a platform where you can have many different cultural reference frameworks and actually thrive together and work together and learn together across cultural backgrounds and reference frameworks. Rather, we have to create the school as an arena that is actually common to all. I thank you again for having a debate, but I hope we will have a debate on the quality of the basic skills at national level, and on how to raise quality, where we look at the possibility of eliminating just background, ethnicity or social class affiliation to parents as a factor in quality in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e279	The representative, Hadia Tajik, addresses a major societal challenge in Norway, namely how to contribute to the greater integration of the new countrymen who have come to Norway, their children, the generations who grow up as Norwegians. But unlike the interpellant, I see that there's a lot of positive happening in Oslo, and that it's actually such that here others can learn from the capital. The Oslo school is undoubtedly characterised by a great diversity, but at the same time it is a fact that the Oslo school in very many areas is far advanced also in terms of results. We know, for example. that in terms of literacy and literacy, Oslo is the highest-class school, despite the diversity of Oslo schools. The starting point for this interpellation and part of Hajik's posts is that I think I could help to obscure the reality of the Oslo school. Successful integration is about taking all students, regardless of background, seriously and giving them the same opportunities to realize their abilities and talents as citizens of Norwegian society. I fully agree with the representative Tajik, who says that it is as important as the social as the professional for us to train and form whole people in Norway. We also know that there is no contradiction between well-being and learning. On the contrary, there are two factors that go hand in hand. But the right is concerned that we're going to have a school that meets all students with as high expectations as the students actually have for themselves. It's not obvious. We know that research in Norway confirms that students are underperforming because they do not meet the expectations that there is reason to give them. There I think we have a job to do to those minority-speaking people that we may not meet as they should have met, and that it is actually possible to make even higher demands on them. I believe that Oslo took a very important step in 2005 when Norwegian 2 was abolished and simply gathered all students in the same Norwegian class. This is perhaps the most important thing that has been done for a very long time, and I believe that in the future we will be able to contribute to a collection of young people in the school in Oslo and in the municipality that has the same starting point professionally. I also think it is absolutely right, as both the inter-pellant and the Council of State have argued, that good basic skills in Norwegian, reading and writing are the main entrance to the acquisition of knowledge in all other subjects. If you're going to be a good citizen of society, we know that it's absolutely essential to be able to be briefed. Then it's the two skills that go beyond everyone else in terms of meaning to be able to live in society. So I believe that the Municipality of Oslo has also taken a very good step in terms of the Oslo Children's Courts, where they are now strengthening the transition between kindergarten and school, with a commitment to language skills to make sure that all students, regardless of background, are going to attend first-class school with the same starting point. It is also worth noting that the University of Oslo has recently published a study showing that the proportion of minority students is not critical to school outcomes. It's a very encouraging message to get. That means the Oslo school has to do a lot right. I am pleased that the Council of State now determines that the primary school principle is established, and that it is in other ways that we have to tackle the challenge of getting minority students more integrated and more included and more involved in school. Then I want to say in the end that there is an important social debate it is now coming up to, because Norway needs the labour that our new countrymen and their later generations also represent. It is therefore a challenge, Right-wing believes, that the whole of Norwegian society, and not least the labour market, must make it clearer that there is a need for everyone's labour force in the future. It may be the most important contribution to creating higher school motivation even in minority speakers, so that they acquire the skills required to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e305	Oslo is a classy town, and I'm very happy with all the representatives from both the Progress Party and the Right who go up here and say that the most important thing is to make sure that everyone gets equal opportunities, that we have to do it by giving people the opportunity to succeed by putting in more resources to help people who have a low-income class background, and making sure to strengthen their opportunities. But the reality isn't that it's there. It is not the policy that is put into practice by the Right and the Progress Party in Oslo. It's just to look at how you've recently moved resources from the Eastern Schools to the Western Schools. It's also just to look at what the basic problem is. Nearly all the fields in the school where there are social differences that determine the results, the logical answer for all the up-and-coming people is to say, but let's do something about the differences, then! Let's even out the differences between those who have a lot and those who have little in Oslo, to make sure you get better and more equal opportunities! But we have right-wing agencies that, on the question of whether they think it's important to equalise social differences, they say, no, I don't think that's my problem. It is clear that nothing will be done about the basic problem. Housing policy is essential to ensure a better mix — a good mix. When there is a clear link between ethnic background and class distinctions in Norway and Oslo, so that those with a minority background are also the people with the worst income, it goes without saying that a better mix is to be made in the Oslo schools – and I think that the representative Tajik had several good arguments for why it is important to ensure the best possible breadth and competence in the Norwegian community, and I think it will also be an obvious enrichment for people living on the west side – it is important to have more people with a minority background in the neighbourhood. It is clear that such a defensive housing policy, led from the right side of Oslo, is one of the reasons why we are unable to do anything about this. In debates with Michael Tetzschner and Christian Tybring-Gjedde both said that we should have municipal housing where they are the cheapest. Then it goes without saying that municipal housing policy contributes to sedentating the class differences in Oslo instead of helping to balance them and provide a good mix of people with different backgrounds. It may not be so strange when all the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party come from well into the west edge of Oslo, while the left side – in this context I include the Left – has representatives from a large width of the city. We're people from all over town, and we're not just representatives of the west side. Finally, I just want to say one thing. I am very pleased with the job that Kristin Halvorsen and the government are doing by making sure that they have a tough focus on both high school dropout and giving people with minority backgrounds opportunities to Norwegian in a better way. The grips of introducing free half-day seats into kindergarten are very, very important. All teachers who work at school with minority students say that this is something that works – the students are better prepared, both to go to a class and to be with many and to be able to Norwegian in a better way. There is no doubt that a good next step and important step to take will be to make sure that the cash support, as we know, works in a very negative way in Oslo in relation to integration policy. In the end, I'd like to say one thing, about what's about recognising mother tongues. It's very strange, in my opinion, that there's a huge hiccups among a majority of the parties after focusing on students learning German, French and Spanish, but one lets see the value of all the language skills of all the students who have a minority language. We're not going to see that value and develop it further. We should have a completely different trance in municipalities across the country and from the state. There I believe that the Østberg Committee has made an important choice of values by saying that the value of all the peoples who know Urdu, and all those who know Arabic, could contribute extra resources that we don't have today, which could strengthen the business opportunities to claim abroad, as well as to value something as special that people have an extra language.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e320	I was a little uncertain as to whether I should take the floor, for a moment I felt committed to the City Council in Oslo. I think it is very important that the debate we are now taking also has a national perspective. But, of course, Oslo has some challenges to face in this context. I think that the representative Hajik addresses several fundamental and quite important issues in this interview. I very much agree with the premise that those of our children who have a multicultural and multilingual background can become a great resource for us as a society, especially because our business is becoming more and more globalized, and they are sitting on a unique competence and resource that we are not getting used well enough today. Training in basic Norwegian shall promote adapted training and address the needs of linguistic minorities for specific language training. It's not a simple job. For this group of students, as we've heard, is a very small homogeneous group. Some were born in Norway, but have had little contact with Norwegian-speaking environments before starting school. Others come to Norway during school age and have different school backgrounds from their home country. Reading and writing skills are usually best based on oral skills. It is therefore important to be able to work with oral skills as a starting point for written work when learning Norwegian. That is, meeting places are also important, to facilitate people's meeting across cultural preferences. Cultural activities and voluntary work are important venues for creating common meeting places where oral skills are developed in different languages. There's a series going on at the NRK now called The Great Journey. It's very interesting to see how total lack of linguistic communication poses a very challenge for the Norwegian participants and for their hosts. But they talk in the way, and we get the text the whole communication, and we smile a little bit of comments and of misunderstandings. These families have spent time on a time-limited adventure tour. Many of our children and young people have come here after an even greater journey, a journey that they do not know how long to last, and where the background has not been adventure, but there may be war or persecution that has made them come here. Then it's important that we make an arrangement that allows them to have a basic communication. One of the things that has not been mentioned in the debate until now is that some municipalities use welcome classes, or reception schools, as a place where you have the first meeting with Norwegian school for these students. The reception school in Kristiansand is the first meeting for children who move to Kristiansand and do not master Norwegian, whether they come as refugees, asylum seekers or immigrants. They shall be sufficient, oral and written to master Norwegian before being transferred to a secondary school. Then it is also important that there are bilingual teachers in the schools to which the students come. I would like to challenge the Council of State on how a worker from the Department has access to many enough bilingual teachers and teachers who can contribute with competence to the Norwegian school. Another perspective that has not been discussed is cooperation between home and school. The need for a much closer cooperation between home and school is often recognised by the principals with a high proportion of minority language students. Parents may have problems understanding letters that students bring home, and it may be essential that we have someone who can participate and interpret in the meeting points. One of the strongest experiences I've had was to meet a principal at one of the Oslo schools who walked around and knocked on at home with parents to get them to join in and figure out how they could build a stronger common commitment together, so that their students and their children would succeed better in school. She also told me that she allowed the parents’ meetings to be interpreted into Norwegian — they went to Urdu and were interpreted into Norwegian — so that more people could take an active part in building a better school. We have many challenges to achieve this, so that these children can become a resource for the future in building a business that is becoming more and more globalized.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e342	First, I want to thank the interpellant Tajik for focusing on an important theme. Good language skills are a prerequisite for good integration and participation in society. One interesting point is that research shows that parental education promotes integration. It's when you master your mother tongue and your ability to think abstractly, that the basis for learning a different language and understanding a new culture is the best. It is precisely this cultural reference framework – which was also the subject of the interpellant – that it is so important that we all take part. The interpellant refers to Oslo, which has a high proportion of minority language students. There is a higher proportion on the east side than on the west side, and more people in the media have arranged for school boundaries or buses to be changed back and forth in order to balance the student composition. There is every reason to ask questions about whether these are good solutions. There's no secret that the primary school is important to the Center Party, and there's little reason to believe that you're promoting integration by sending the students out of your community to go to school. It must at least — as the Council of State was also involved — be a voluntary scheme, but it is not a long-term solution to the challenge. Rather, you have to promote more varied settlements, so that you get a diverse student composition both in the east and west. It's positive for society, and for the individual. Both the municipality of Oslo and the state agencies responsible for housing policy have a common responsibility. As I said in the persuasion debate, it doesn't hold with chalk to motivate for learning, and this is not least true here. You need good and competent teachers, you need time to learn the drug in a good way, and you need equipment to vary teaching. The school may be the most important integration arena we have, and therefore a commitment to the school is also good integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e353	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for travelling a very important interpellation in the Storting. Basic ideological distinctions are also seen when discussing this matter. I mean, when a child comes in the school door, we're not going to assume that they're a problem. But I think a lot of schools have had that attitude when it was visible that a child had parents from another country. There has also been an incredible amount of what has been called desktop theorists. I think we've gone into how important mother tongues really are, without a good professional background. I remember that when I was in school ten years ago, we were told by then Minister of Education Trond Giske that all the teaching of all minority language students was to be defined as special education. In that case, it was a bureaucratic reform that really stood out historically, I believe, which the Municipality of Oslo chose to ignore with great luck. I also think that it promises a debate linked to: When are you Norwegian? For there are very many of the students who are characterised here in the debate as non-Norwegian, who are Norwegian according to all possible imaginable standards – both that they can Norwegian when they start, that they are born in Norway, and that they have Norwegian passports. But it's assumed that they have an extra language. It's amazing how we in Norwegian school have seen it as a problem that kids know an extra language. We like to use tens of thousands – up to hundreds of thousands – of dollars to get kids to learn an extra language when they go to university, but we see it as a problem when they go into first class and know another language. It's about a mentality change – it has to – and it's about the whole school having to understand the multicultural setting. A while ago, we had national tests on the theme of maritime cabs in the Tourist Association. There are a lot of ethnic urnorsk on the east side as well that don't know what the naval cabins of the Tourist Association are. I spoke to a teacher at Vahl who had asked one of his students – one of the best students, who was good in Norwegian – to iron out with yellow all the words she had never heard before in the national test, and there was an impressive amount of yellow writing she had in front of her. That she had done so well was really quite impressive. So we have to do something about the housing pattern. You're making it sound like the big migration tip in the Grorud valley is a descent, when it's really an uphill trip. The vast majority of those who live there have lived in small apartments in the center, and now being able to buy a series house in Groruddalen is actually a step up. Of course, we have to aim to bring more up, and bring them a little bit further. But – dear President – this is actually a movement in the right direction. So we have to do something dramatic in terms of reception classes. We're way too bad at that. We have to do something about teacher training that makes teachers know what it's about. The problem is that we have had very good schools on the east side that have been able to relate to multilingualism, multilingualism, multiculturalism, but the competences that the teachers have built have not been transferred to the schools that the students have moved to. There is almost nothing in teacher training that includes this. Then I have to say that I think maybe we should bet more on the history subject. That was something we lost when we created the KRL. It's something we've lost over time, which could have been better for the cultural understanding, which I think history could have brought us. We have put forward nine points in Oslo Left to meet this challenge better, and to meet the debate on bussing. The debate on bussing is a rather degrading debate based on ethnicity, which makes me think it's a little disgusting. I also think it is a little awkward when parents are going to move kids because the classes are not white enough. They don't know the other kids, they never met them, they never talked to them. Why do they think those kids are going to help give their children a bad start? The representative of the Workers' Party expressed an understanding of that, I'm in the vicinity of not expressing an understanding of that. Then we have to do something more with home and school. We have to do something about school health, we have to do something about environmental measures related to this. But there's only one thing that can give kids the same start, and it's good, wise teachers who know how to work, who can say that Norwegian is the basics of this country, and who can develop the kids and get the potential out of them. That's why the only solution to make this work is: the very best teachers have to work with those students with the greatest challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e374	First, I would also like to thank the representative, Tajik, for addressing this issue. Many people refer to the fact that we seem to be in the City Council in Oslo – this is not just an Oslo problem. Well, this is first of all something that happens in Oslo. I have heard many interpellations in Stortinget, for example. on the power situation in central Norway, where no one points out that this is something they should discuss in the city council of Trondheim or the county council. These are important things that happen in Oslo, and it's important for the Storting. What's happening in Oslo is important to the whole country. It also helps control the way we think about school and integration. It's very good that happens in Oslo school, but unfortunately it doesn't happen enough. We have had a long debate on this, and I think the representatives of Bohemia and Tajik address many important things, many things that could have been done, but that are not being done, for example. changing school boundaries, better monitoring to better put together the classes and more active use of what is happening in kindergarten. Unfortunately, the school office in Oslo is too passive. He says the same thing that we hear from the representative Hanekamhaug, that we don't have to treat people differently, we just have to bet on general, good quality. I think it's an important political difference, I think different people need to be treated differently if you're going to get the same results. That's what we say so nicely when we talk about customized training, that everyone has to meet the needs they have. I also learned from Tajik's comments that some of the things that have mattered most to girls with minority backgrounds are whether they've spent their core time in kindergarten or not. This is precisely a measure that has been opposed to the right, but which this government has put in place. It's about meeting people in a different way to give them the same chances that others get, precisely because they didn't have the same starting point. I also think the post to Aspaker shows us a little bit that the right is in a blind spot here. It seems like you're willing to cover everything that's going on in Oslo, just because there's a right-wing agency running. As I started the post, it is very good that happens in Oslo. There are very good schools on the east side of Oslo, there are very good schools on the west side. The problem is that the problems and challenges of special groups are not sufficiently addressed. Then it's dangerous just to cover it because you're in a party with those who rule. Even I grew up on the Oslo East, on Holmlia, which I have understood is an important qualification in the debate here; it is at least important to me. I also find it sad that not everyone in Oslo should be allowed to grow up in a multicultural everyday life, in a multicultural society, but live in Oslo west of itself in an ethnic Norwegian enclave. Hanekamhaug, Aspaker and others talk about the quality of the characters being important. We must not forget the value of the community that the school gives us. That's where we learn from each other, that's where we learn to get better, and that's where we learn to develop understanding of the different qualities, the different sides that we all have. Since we are not in the city hall, as it has been pointed out: I know that, for example. In District Norway, there are many who drive a bus to school. I just want to be allowed to say at my own expense that I think it's become people of them. I don't think changing a housing policy, but as long as it's in this city, will work fast enough to change the composition of Oslo. I don't think it would be harmful to try a little faster, more drastic measures. Step Skei Grande says she thinks it's 'labelled' with parents moving the children. I can agree with her argument, but the reality is still something we have to deal with. I don't think the kids should lose sight of the fact that they have parents who don't realize that all the kids are as much worth, and as nice to go to school with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e395	For the previous speaker, I would like to point out that it is quite interesting that a representative from the Workers' Party believes that we should seriously assess the coaching of schoolchildren in Oslo. That means that the red-green parties have to disagree with each other. I was very pleased with the good answers of the Council of State. One could probably regret that not every city is an average city, and that there are no variations in the city, but the Council of State was also aware and expressed here in the Chamber that diversity cannot be adopted. She also said that it was not possible and desirable to use such instruments. If I have misunderstood the previous speech, I would like to be corrected, but it seems that the Workers' Party is very disagreeable with the instruments. I think the Storting can be quite satisfied with its capital and be a little proud of it, because it gets incredibly good results, not least within what is one of the policy's most important tasks: to make sure we have a good school. This does not mean that there are no challenges, but the monitoring of the Oslo School has also shown that those areas with a large minority-speaking element score above the country average. Oslo as a whole has the best school in the country. You might say that from the past you have an inheritance for a classed city. Then it was only a pity not to use the golden social-democratic years of the 1960s to offer varied housing, but to place one-sided emphasis on a high number of dwellings that were to be built per. years, and which would be very reasonable, but which eventually became too small, so that when people got better advice, they moved west or out of the municipality. This has also been the subject of discussion in the city council for many years and has been compensated for socialist urban planning by ensuring that it has become more mixed in new areas. Another important aspect is that we have a functioning labour market. It is very important for our cities that we do not get a large sub-class of people without a permanent connection to the labour market. Housing and work are also important integration factors, not only for the immigrant population but also for the Nordics who fall outside. That must also be our perspective. With regard to the school’s contribution to social mobility, there has been a long discussion. It is good that the red-greens have come after and recognised that the school should not only be a place, but also a place to learn – just the playground and the beress school rather than the knowledge school was just a school that invited to maintain social differences. Those who suffer from bad public school are those who come from nonschool - motivated homes. It also has an immigration policy component. When you raise the level of school provision in a city, you also raise the level of integration and those who are going into society. Then we also see that there are some challenges. Immigrant girls do better than immigrant boys. There is some knowledge that needs to be taken further and specific action taken. An instrument such as SV and the Workers' Party has also been used, namely wage differentiation. Teachers have been given pay instructions to be in areas with challenges for minority students. It has produced great results when you look at the objective knowledge tests. So wage differentiation is also an important tool. In conclusion, I would like to point out that there was a long discussion in Oslo about whether it would be possible to apply to what school you wanted, based on the achievement of character. The free choice of schools in secondary schools has also contributed to the promotion of social mobility — the whole city has been an entry point for secondary school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e416	Thanks for a good and important interpellation and certainly also for a wise and thorough answer. Thanks to a freight train that today tried to get into the interior early, I have been delayed to the debate here today. In the integration and inclusion area, we have recently been very concerned about finding that things are going better than we thought for a while. Not least those who are very skeptical of immigration and as a result will have the least of it, the debate has dominated for years to produce the negative stories. I understand that point — when there is something you want to get rid of, it’s a point to overfocus on how problematic it is, in this case that we get immigration to Norway. It's kind of important to say that this is very problematic, while the conclusion is seaworthy – most of us believe that, and I think this debate here today is in a good way – that lucky are we who have immigration, with all the exciting and positive consequences that it brings to Norwegian society. But then the interpellant reminds us, everyone involved in the debate here, that there shouldn't be some kind of sleeping cushion. There are certainly some challenges that we need to address. The government does that, and it shows the interpellant very clearly that we do on the left-hand side. We're a little more uncertain about whether we think the Right Party and the Advance Party do that, among other things. Here in Oslo. There is, of course, some of the essence of the debate here. It's very good in Oslo school, but we see that in terms of grades, in so far as they can measure what's done in school – they measure certain parts of what a person gets and doesn't get into at school – then immigrants have problems. Then we don't see at all – that's what school people and others tell us – that there's a lack of integration. There is currently too much segregation in Oslo School. We have to do something about that. Many here have raised most points that until today's debate have been debated, among other things. The Oslo community and the Norwegian public. It concerns language, housing policy – here framed in a slightly random order – teacher and teacher competence. Please note that Oslo SV has made a proposal that I respond positively to, and that seems very wise. It is to hire a separate school-home coordinator, just to establish the interaction between school and home, which is supported correctly and importantly, not least in this context. Seeing school and SFO as a whole is important in all contexts. In all Norwegian municipalities – everywhere – but perhaps especially here in Oslo, this is to be seen as one world, both for the student and for the parents. So there's one factor that we're still coming back to, social background. I want to stay a little bit at it, starting with a very good book that has now come, called the Knowledge Society, as four school researchers, among others. Gunnar Grepperud of the University of Tromsø, has written. They are very concerned that it is important that we bet in parallel on the training of children and on the qualification of adults. A home where school and learning are also focused on parents, so that they too are drawn into this important activity, will immediately have a positive effect on the children who go to school in the normal, ordinary way. Then there will be a kind of culture of learning around the kitchen table in the different homes. Then it might go a little better than it does today. It's important to bet on school. It's important to bet on the kids who go to primary school and eventually to high school. But let's also become more active and offensive, not least to the parent group we're talking about here. They need even qualification and learning, and it will immediately also have a positive effect on their kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e437	I too would like to thank the interpellant for having an important debate. What she's really asking is how we can make sure that the school gives all children equal opportunities. Minority-speaking children have in theory the same rights as everyone else, but in practice the matter is a little different. It's part of us who live in the Norwegian welfare community today, who's made that class trip before. Then we have to be able to do it one more time. Number from Drammen, my home municipality and Immigrant City No. 2 shows the same thing as in Oslo. A growing number of minority language students need specific Norwegian training. One of the highlights is that the number of people dropping from high school to high school. Still, it's about 10 pst. as just before the transition to higher education, Norwegian is not able to participate adequately in ordinary education. Mountain school, a primary school in terms of multicultural understanding, has 77 pst. minority language pupils from 27 countries. School cuts below average in reading, billing and English, just as high school in the same city does. With «Med Norwegian in the bag», the municipality was a pioneer in language testing of children. The state contributes with free core time in kindergarten for three-year-olds, but only about half use the offer. What are we really doing wrong? We know a lot about social differences in school. That's what it's all about here, too. Are we targeted enough in the use of tools? The coaching of students has been mentioned as a theme. Some of us in the Workers' Party took a trip to Århus in Denmark, which has been doing this for a while. What we discovered there was that busing really wasn't the main thing. What they did was to language children early. If the children did not pass the language test, they ordered the parents to receive language support. The parents could choose if they would have this in or out of kindergarten, and the most, most of them would choose kindergarten. Towards our 50 pst. which accepts the offer of free core time, they had over 90 pst. The interpellant raises a very important question — bilingualism as a resource. Is there something that we really mean, or is it the most speechful? It's hard to find any such position in the way we talk and act. We discuss for and against mother tongue teaching, but the discussion is mostly about the extent to which this is a good educational tool for learning Norwegian. The discussion is rarely about how to take care of the strength of being able to speak more languages and have two different cultural codes, from childhood through school to working age. The mother's goal is an instrument, not a goal in itself. As Unni Helland, an experienced teacher from Fjell School, expressed it in a meeting the other day: if a child masters both English, French and Norwegian, we become muted by admiration for this little language genius. If a child controls Norwegian, English and Turkish, we automatically believe that both Norwegian and English are bad. We have a problem, not a resource. The main business organisation has seen this resource. In the Global Future programme, well-educated multilingual, multicultural young people are looking for resources for business in a globalised business environment. And they find them, both boys and girls. The question is whether they find them because of or despite Norwegian school. In spite of that, probably bilingualism at this level is an area where social differences are even more pronounced than in the past in school. So a small but perhaps important parentheses: there are especially immigrant girls we are now seeing storms in higher education. We should follow them on in life, see if they continue to use their education after they start up a family, or if more traditional cultural leaders gradually pass through. Then we should also do something about it. In short, a little on the verge – perhaps a little like banishing in the church – but seriously meant: as long as we continue to view bilingualism as a challenge with a minus sign in front, where resources are deployed to help students who are struggling, we probably choose more of today's instruments. But instead, if we look at bilingualism or multilingualism as a resource that society needs and that is being processed and taken care of, we might choose a completely different kind of instrument, maybe even a teacher training that takes on the multicultural in new and exciting ways, because when we turn the thinking around, the world looks a little different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e454	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing forward an important topic. Now this has been largely an Oslo debate until Lise Christoffersen's speeches, and the representative Wickholm drew attention to the importance of having grown up on the east of Oslo. So have I. I've grown up on Tonsenhagen. It may not sound in the dialect, but I lived there until I was nine years old, so I have good experience from the east. This appears to be a seminar in red-green disagreement in which the Minister of Knowledge was exemplaryly ready to underline the value of the secondary school, the neighbourhood, having good resources in the individual school, while the representative Wickholm and others in the Workers' Party were more concerned about making this a matter of breaking up social structures in Oslo, buses, students, etc. I have no faith in that. Nor do I believe that this is a bigger problem than it really is. Because what is the starting point here is that we need a good school everywhere – all schools should be good. Then language testing and monitoring are important. The Minister of Knowledge insisted that the opposition had voted against language testing in kindergarten. In any case, the right has long been in favour of language testing at the 4-year check – and we have gone too far – and we want it to be carried out. 90 pst. by Norwegian municipalities have conducted language testing, 76 pst. by Norwegian municipalities have language measures in kindergarten and 18 pst. it also has outside the kindergarten, so it is doing a lot of good work in Norwegian municipalities. But now I hear it's 40 pst. minority language students in Oslo School, and that's a big number. There'll be a lot of focus on it, and it's natural. Oslo School does a lot of good, and it's a lot to learn from Oslo School. But I think it's important that the government now also make this something more than an Oslo problem or an Oslo challenge, and I think the government is going to do that. There are minority language students in all parts of the country. There are many in Oslo, there are quite a few in the Drammen, but there are many in other Norwegian cities and towns as well. This requires action and policy that works for everyone. Right wants to have a mapping of language skills. Right wants to put in targeted action for those who need additional language training, and then we have to get rid of some of the notions that this is only about ethnicity or different rural backgrounds. It's just as much about sex. We have heard in several articles here today that the boys are coming out much worse. That's why we have to take a different starting point. I agree with the representative, Bøhler, who spoke about this to accept that someone is actually Norwegian even though they have a different background or appearance. It's often a little difficult for us to get older. I have a son who is now 21 years old, but when he was about Nine years, I asked, have any new ones arrived in your class this year? Yeah, there's a guy from Tromsø. Oh, yeah. What's his name? His name is Jaspreet. But I guess he's not from Tromsø, I said. I guess he's from India. No, he's from Tromsø, but the mother and his father are from India. That's a little bit of the way we have to change our mind. I think those who are young today, those who go to school today, have a completely different starting point for thinking, how is this student? Well, I think of him as a fellow student, I don't think of him as being from India, Pakistan or Turkey. They look at him as one in class. We all know that there are different starting points, different assumptions in any family, regardless of ethnicity. We have to take that into account when we map, when we take action, and when we get a policy that works in this area. It's doing a lot of good, but we think you can do it a lot better. Then I want to return to this with free core time in the nursery. Yeah, that's great, but it hits very wide. We had a discussion about this in the Right, and then it was found that one of our advisers in the Norwegian metropolitan area, who is across Norway, gets free core time because she lives on Søndre Nordstrand. As she says, she has not asked for it, and she has no particular desire not to pay for it as it costs that the child should go to kindergarten. Is it not possible to create a more targeted action that will take those who really need it? It is the policy we now need to focus on and work on in the future – not make this a bigger problem than it is, but target the measures for those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e469	I am encouraged that there are many in the discussion who recognise multilingualism as a resource. It does both the Council of State and up to several representatives from different parties. I agree with the representative Christoffersen that this is really about enabling the class trip that you know from previous Norwegian history, and that this is not a foreign task we are facing here. At the same time, I am somewhat concerned that the representative from the Right is more concerned about boasting of the general school performance in Oslo than about addressing what are real challenges in Oslo City, namely that immigrant students actually go out with two primary school credits lower in Oslo City than they do in other parts of the country. Then I also record that the representatives from the Right – at least the last speaker from the Right – seem to be against free core time. That's very interesting. I will take that with me in the further discussion about this. In their statement, the Progress Party shows that they still do not fully understand the problem of minority language students in school, for the representative Hanekamhaug showed only basic competence in reading, writing and billing. In that case, the representative could not have read the general syllabus of primary school, which, in addition to professional competence, places emphasis on social competence and the ability to become a good citizen of society. At the same time, I want to commend the representative of the Progress Party for having an commitment to, a greater room for cultural diversity in school, i.e. different cultural reference frameworks. But I'm a little uncertain about whether this is a bunch of perception in her party, at least in the light of other statements by representatives of the Progress Party. Even though cultural diversity is positive, I am of the opinion that it is wrong to claim that students with a minority background will survive in working life without mastering ‘Norwegian’. If you underestimate it, you keep both yourself and the students with a minority background for fools. I record that the representative Aspaker emphasises social competence in the school in his post. I am pleased, but I also note the disagreement between the civil parties in this field. I see that the party on the right does not follow up this with practical measures. Several representatives have highlighted the importance of cooperation with parents at home. I agree that is important, not least in this area. Here we have to keep focus. Finally, I want to share a little bit of a cheerful observation. Twice during this discussion I have been referred to as the representative ‘Hajik’. I hope this is not a sign of low multicultural competence in the staging room. For the sake of the early effort principle, I would like to point out that it is very nice if the ten letters in my name are spelled in the correct order. To the extent necessary, I can contribute with adapted training! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e484	The President thanks on behalf of all the representatives of the last!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e487	I think this has been a nuanced debate, based on the diversity of students with a minority background. I really think that's a good promise for the further discussion about this, because we have significant challenges of including all students. Let me just take some moments. First of all, it's true that Oslo is getting quite a lot in terms of school policy. Majority students do much better than what is done on a national basis, but minority students, those who have parents who have migrated to Oslo, do so on a country-by-country basis. Those who have even migrated to Oslo are, as the interpellant has now stressed several times, considerably lower than on a national basis. Oslo gets a lot, but it's not like Oslo has the broken code in terms of including children with minority backgrounds. On the contrary, you should have ambitions to go much further. Then, in many countries, you can see that schools with many minority children are the poorest schools. It's not like that in Norway. Oslo has a redistribution system that attracts resources to the school, and that's important. Probably there can be more of the same thing. It's a similar way the state thinks about when we launch offers with free core time in the kindergarten, just for those neighborhoods that have a challenge. And that's a point for us that it concerns all the kids in these neighborhoods. We just want all the children to get into that kindergarten, otherwise it's a worse starting point for learning for the minority children as well. Parents with a minority background are often very concerned about school. The joy is that parents who are illiterate themselves have a lot to contribute to students' motivation if they just show interest. There we know there's a big difference. When we look at how students with a minority background apply to higher education, it's almost an adventure. If we look at those who in 2007 continued in higher education the same year they completed secondary education, the rate was 27 pst. for immigrants, 46 pst. for Norwegian-born immigrants' parents and 24 pst. for all students. Very many people with a minority background see education as an opportunity. I had these kinds of problems around my own children's school, because then the neighborhood we live in was a town with low housing prices and many social challenges. Now, the moving pattern in Oslo has made those issues different. I'm sure we can make good schools, but what often concerns parents is the social context, which becomes a challenge if you feel like you're the last ethnic Norwegian in a school. That's why I think the Right and the other bourgeois parties are ignoring how important SFO and all the social issues around the school are for how to succeed in including students. [[President clubs]] The time from talking about learning school to play and be school...
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e502	The President must mention that speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e506	... I mean, I'm a passé. We need both.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e511	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e527	It's the results that count. There is no doubt that Norway is a power of aid. We provide more assistance than any other country in the world measured per capita. And we're also in the absolute front when it comes to absolute numbers. However, as the interpellation text says, Norway is the seventh largest contributor to the United Nations and the fifth largest operational contributor. I want this inter-pelling debate to be about how our UN contribution can make the UN a better organisation and thus more effective, about how Norway can learn from Sweden and vice versa, and about how we can stand together to increase our impact. Sweden has undergone 23 multilateral organisations receiving Roughly 50 pst. by the Swedish aid budget. Their evaluations have four main criteria: relevance in relation to Sweden’s aid and development objectives, internal efficiency, external efficiency and trends in development within the organisation. This report is the subject of wide-ranging public debate. The Swedish Minister of Assistance, Gunilla Carlsson, has recently used the UN Food Organisation, FAO, as an example. FAO has for a long time been one of the least effective organisations in the United Nations and has had a very high level of leadership. Now the organisation is subject to a completely necessary reform process, where Sweden has taken one of the leading roles. It was precisely because the Swedish evaluation was so clear as to which points could be improved in the FAO. There are five other organisations to which the Swedish report considers that particular attention should be paid. It's: GEF, i.e. the UN Global Environment Fund UNODC, UN Office for Drugs and Crime UN-HABITAT, UN Organisation for Urban Development and Housing UNAIDS, UN Office for AIDS UNIFEM, UN Women's Fund These are organisations that all receive significant Norwegian contributions. When organisations do not function properly, when the money does not reach those who actually need it, yes, they are lost in proportion to what else we could have spent the money on. I have no doubt that Sweden's voice will be heard. According to Gunilla Carlsson, Sweden should not only be a major contributor but also take an active part in the management of multilateral activities, and Sweden should also pay the highest attention to those organisations that work according to their objectives and priorities. I hope we can agree on the same for Norway. For it is once that the Nordic countries are united about a great deal, including in the case of the United Nations. And in the case of UNDP, Nordic money stands for 40 pst. of the financing. In Norway, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been working with our 25 largest UN-related multilateral organisations. It's affordable. It's high time, and it's very positive that it's happening now. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that he aims to start cooperation with Sweden on the follow-up to the evaluations that apply, and in Norway, as in Sweden, this is about 50 pst. by the Norwegian Development Budget. In fact, Norway is the third largest contributor to voluntary contributions to UN development activities and humanitarian activities. It simply means that money we manage to make more efficient use of is money that then contributes to greater development. But for the Norad report and the evaluation. In May Norad presented its annual report ‘Evaluation of Norwegian development cooperation 2009’. It identifies and presents a number of evaluations of Norwegian aid and draws four lessons: We've gotten better at getting results, but it's a long way to go. The assistance is too short-sighted. It is difficult for UN organisations to provide effective assistance. International humanitarian aid is better planned and managed. However, there are differences between the Swedish and Norwegian evaluations, and not least the follow-up. These are clearer Swedish criteria for evaluation. I would like to encourage the Council of States to clarify: What are the Norwegian criteria for evaluation cooperation? There is a clearer Swedish voice when it comes to reforming individual organisations in the UN. Norway has played a role under this and former governments, and plays a role in the reform of the UN as such. But the Swedish voice is clearer when it comes to reforming individual organisations. Sweden is once again more aware of what it wants to achieve with its significant funds to the UN organisations in relation to its own development objectives and assistance in general. And once again, I want to ask the Council of State to clarify what concrete objectives and priorities Norway is making when we contribute funds to single organizations in the United Nations system. The evaluation must be regular. You don't just need one evaluation to go on and come back after a long time. No, the evaluation must be regular, and it must have an effect. This means that the evaluation must be followed, not just in relation to the twisting of money to the most efficient organisations, the ones that deliver the most in relation to our goals and our own goals. However, it must also mean that non-delivery organisations must be subject to critical constructive criticism from the Norwegian side and the desire for reform. The Norwegian financial contributions should not be automatically increased by UN organisations, even if the results are not available. However, they must be able to assume that if they contribute according to the Norwegian development strategy and are effective, they will receive not only Norwegian support but also wide support. The point must be that there are friends of the United Nations who must be willing to criticise. It has not solved any problems to keep silent. It'll be a misunderstood loyalty. Norway is among the countries in the world which are in fact the most dependent on the United Nations, and which are among the strongest supporters of the United Nations. That is precisely why we must be a constructive and constant critic. I am afraid that this criticism dimension has been far too absent in our foreign policy thinking. Globalisation requires not only regional solutions but international solutions. The world needs a UN that is capable of action, that is legitimate and that delivers. I have no doubt that the United Nations organizations need to clean up their profile. There are too many of the organisations that are currently running immediately that duplicate each other. It creates unclear responsibilities, contributes to the building up of unnecessary bureaucracy and leads to the results not being good enough. An example can be UNDP – an organisation with a broad mandate, which is a very important organisation, but which is once again in the fields of a number of other UN organisations. I can also mention the fact that it is approx. 100 organizations linked to the United Nations system, once again saying their own. It's the results that count. Norway has an opportunity to play the role of constructive critics, who not only contribute a significant part of the funding to the UN system but who, through our funding and constructive criticism, contribute to the UN becoming a better organisation and who play their role in a far better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e590	“That’s the results that count.” That’s how Peter Skovholt started Gitmark’s interaction, and I can’t agree more. I think it's not just international, but it could also be a reminder of the Norwegian debate, because I don't know how often I hear anything being measured in how much money we spend on a phenomenon. The government boasts how much money we spend, the opposition requires it to be spent more. But it must be the results and measurement of the results in all areas, whether it is school, roads or hospitals in Norway or in the international community, which is the guide to what is a success. If you take the broad international picture, it's great success. In the last issue of Foreign Policy, there is an article that I looked at last night, asking the question: Was not the decade from 2000 to 2010 the best decade in human history, trajectory in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and other problems? I think the answer is yes, it's the best decade. Just to mention some simple numbers: 50 pst. the population of developing countries lived in extreme poverty in 1990. Now the share is down to 25 pst. There are 8.2 million fewer children under the age of five who die today than in 1970, despite the fact that the population on earth is 3 billion larger. 88 pst. of all the world's children are now starting school. This applies to almost all boys — at least in countries where there is no war and conflict — but there is still a lot about girls. The number of refugees in the world is falling, and the number of wars in the world is falling. All of this is very close to the UN profit, but the big picture in the world is not that everything goes from bad to worse, but that it goes in the right direction, if we try to push it so it should go faster. In this picture, the UN has an important dual role, as a set of norms, and exercises programmes and projects on the ground. Let me start with the norm sets in the multipolar world order that we're now going into. That's a nice word, but we might as well get used to it once and for all. The time when the United States and the Soviet Union dominated the world before the colonial powers and then the United States alone are definitely over. We're going into a world where the United States, China, India, Brazil and Europe, and also many smaller countries, want to be heard. Only if we can set common standards and get joint action by all these actors, when we achieve results. This is, of course, the core of the problem in the climate negotiations. This is the first major global negotiation process in this new multipolar age. And the developing countries look to the UN, and they see the UN as the place where normative decisions can be made. The same is true, of course, in war and conflict areas, whether it be elections in Afghanistan or Sudan. It is the UN you look for to set the standards and standards for how the world is to be organised. Fortunately, Skovholt Gitmark and I are not the least in disagreement with this picture. The UN is the most important normative body, and the UN must be strengthened in this role. It's the only thing that can give universal legitimacy. And a small country like Norway is more than anyone dependent on a rule-based world order. Then the UN also plays a role in the delivery of services on the ground. The UN is much more in competition with other actors, such as the World Bank and regional development banks, national bilateral programmes, but also non-governmental organisations. Because even though some of the UN programmes are large, they can often be less than Bill Gates and Warren Buffett can do with money alone for programs that they have on their private agenda – just to mention a few of the world's great benefactors. Although the United Nations has this important normative role, the United Nations needs to find out that there is competition for delivery on the ground and they are measured by whether they deliver better results, at least as good results as other actors. One of the challenges we're facing, and I'm going to invite the Storting to join in thinking through, is that Norway is one of the major suppliers of core support to the UN organisations. What we have done is in line with what the Stoltenberg panel recommended. And we've done it because we think it gives the UN organizations greater ability to get good at what they're good at, less volatile flow waves in the different countries, and they can plan and structure their operations more. But of course, there is also a danger that Norway will finance, to put it simply, positions in New York, positions in the apparatus, the basic structure of UNDP or UNICEF itself or what it might be, while others will finance the things that are most popular, namely on the ground, where one can put the flag, where one can get political prestige, but also where the deliveries are made. It is one of many dilemmas in our UN policy that the Storting should consider. Skovholt Gitmark challenged me to say what is Norway's main concern in UN policy and in its measurement. One of them, on which Skovholt Gitmark was also involved, is this with a ‘United Nations’ at country level. Each organisation shall cultivate the purest organisation. It's not too few UN organizations. It's clear to many, but getting them together is a difficult and difficult task. That is why we have also funded the ‘A United Nations’ programme at country level, which has been very successful in those countries where the authorities have supported it. Another thing is that UN organisations need to be far more effective at measuring results, not how much money they receive, but what actual results they deliver on the ground – how many children receive education and the quality of that education, to give an example. Norway and Sweden are among the largest contributors to the UN. We have not been able to find any significant difference in what Sweden is doing, and what Norway is doing. But if it should come to light in the debate important things that Sweden does, which we do not, we are more than willing to learn from the Swedes. None of us believe that Norway is doing everything perfectly, that we have nothing to learn from Sweden, but basically we are together about almost everything, as Skovholt Gitmark pulled out in his post. Let me mention some of the areas, and how we try to influence the UN. Firstly, we participate in the governing bodies in almost all of the UN organisations. It determines the priorities, budgets and programmes of individual organisations, emphasises performance management – which I have been involved in – that it should measure results, and of course we are absolutely absolute in an anti-corruption strategy. An example of this is now a Governing Council decision to carry out a major evaluation of UNESCO in order to look at the effectiveness of UNESCO. Secondly, we have joined 16 donor countries in what is called The Multilateral Organisation Performance Assessment Network, to say it very nicely. It is of course also in order to make a joint assessment of the main multilateral organisations. Six organisations and funds are drawn out each year. In all modesty, Norway, and not Sweden, is the leader of the FAO evaluation. In all modesty again, it was Norway that first mentioned that the FAO is one of the worst-led and run the UN organisations, and therefore we stepped down our core contribution to the FAO to put this on the agenda. But I am absolutely sure that Norway and Sweden will stand together in the further process. Thirdly, we carry out independent evaluations administered by the Norad evaluation department. It was probably just a little bit the last report that triggered the interpellation, and thus the debate here in Stortinget. This evaluation just shows that in large programmes such as UNDP is something that's good, and something that's bad. Anything else would have been a sensation. That anything would be perfect or hopeless in a large organization would be very strange. UNDP's land programme in Uganda came up for criticism, while other of the things UNDP did got better grades. But that's just the kind of information we bring back to the UNDP. Fourthly, we have asked our embassies in countries where the UN organisations are very committed to providing a critical assessment of the main UN organisations, UNICEF and UNDP, from the country level. What is the impression of these organisations on the ground in Tanzania, Nepal or Bolivia? Do they deliver results? Do they have good people? We report a lot of this back to top management. It has also led to replacements of personnel and critical reviews when we have made critical remarks. Fifthly, we have so-called profile sheets that summarized the assessment of a total of 25 multilateral organisations and global funds. It is well possible that the profile sheets can be further developed, so that we can get an even better review of the UN organisations based on them. Sixth, the central control unit that we have set up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has the main task of combating corruption in our own systems, has provided assistance to non-governmental organisations in the fight against corruption. It has also asked to go through the UN organisations to reduce the risk of corruption there in cooperation with the UN's own control institutions. Seventh, and perhaps the very core of what we are discussing: we had a Nordic meeting in March 2010, where a number of multilateral organisations were reviewed together, between Norway and Sweden, and we want extensive cooperation with the Swedes on this. Sweden and Norway are among the five–six largest contributors to the UN system, no matter how we measure it. We're the largest per capita, but in absolute terms we're both among the greatest. Of course, we'll be able to have even greater influence together in the United Nations if we take common positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e626	I would like to thank the Council of State for a constructive response. A few things to follow up, and some of the core differences in Norway and Sweden, as I see it: While the Swedish have clear criteria, which I listed in my first post, for the evaluation of the UN organisations, I found on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the following quote: ‘There have been challenges related to the absence of uniform assessment criteria that can provide the basis for a comparable assessment of the different organisations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to work on developing better performance assessment systems for multilateral organisations in cooperation with other countries.» I hope that cooperation with Sweden will be such that we can learn from the Swedes in this area, and that we will have a set of criteria in place quickly. Then I want it to be stated that the evaluation of our main multilateral partners must be regular. Whether it is annual or every other year is of less importance, but it must be regular. Then I want there also to be a greater debate and concreteisation of both the objectives and priorities of support, especially in relation to the various UN organisations. This is part of the debate on the evaluation. I have not seen a terrible number of parties, other than the Progress Party, which has been able to participate in the evaluation debate until now. I hope that there will be a broader debate than what has taken place, and an annual or every other year happening. Most importantly, I want us to use our evaluations to twist the support of the organisations that deliver, that are the best and most effective and that deliver best in relation to our own objectives and the organisation's own objectives, and that we use the opportunity we have to be one of the largest contributors of the United Nations, to contribute to reforms and to press through reforms in those organisations that do not deliver according to purpose. I am pleased that Norway and Sweden were at the heart of the reform work that was and is linked to the FAO. So I want to say that what we now see in relation to a United Nations at country level is the whole essence of what we all want to achieve, precisely a most effective UN, a UN that delivers the most possible development for the means used, and a UN that is not only relevant, but that people on the ground see contributes to their own development as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e646	I agree with everything Skovholt Gitmark says. Interpellant suggests differences between what Norway and Sweden do. I can't see them. All the points that were mentioned about what the Swedishs have as criteria for the UN organisations are, as I can see, identical to the criteria we have for the UN organisations. But if we can make it clearer, I'd like to have a dialogue with the Storting about it, about how we're going to present it in documents for Stortinget. There is no real disagreement here, but we need that debate. Of course, evaluation must be carried out on a regular basis. The various UN organisations are not better off than being influenced by the ability of their leaders and their ability to turn to new issues in the world. For example, the climate has come up as a difficult, new dimension in almost all areas, and it is essential that UN organisations be able to address it. There are, for example: Robert Zoellick, as I can judge, made a formidable effort in the World Bank, to mention it. After all, no more than three to four years have passed since all the voluntary organisations complained that the World Bank was not interested in the climate. Now most of the same voluntary organisations complain that the World Bank is trying to monopolize and dominate the climate agenda in the world. The last is at least much better than the first. So the interpellant picks up something that I think is very important, and it's once again that we get the debate on what is effective, good and sensible assistance, which gives results. I think that we have established 1 pst. of gross national product as an aid level, can contribute to this, because the debate is currently held every year on that pro gramme up to 1 pst. We now have a level that I am absolutely sure will exist, at least as long as we have a red-green government, and even if we have a Christian People's Party in government. I also believe that the Right will defend it in cooperation with the Progress Party, although it remains to be seen. But at least we have now received it, and the advantage of it is that we no longer have the same debate on the percentage, but we have a debate on what is the content of the aid. In any case, it's more important to spend 27.2 billion. kr, if I remember the number correctly, right, that's the crucial question -- not small things up and down. Something very positive happened this year when the aid budget was presented. I did not hear a single volunteer organisation bringing the usual complaint and sympathies that the level was not correct. They all began to go into how the money was to be used within this framework. Then we've taken, I think, a quantum leap in the debate, from just discussing the level – it's of course important to spend a lot of money on this, because if you don't spend a lot of money, you don't get results either – on how to spend money in a highly efficient way, so that they reduce poverty in the world as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e660	First, I would like to thank Mr Skovholt Gitmark for this important interplay, which addresses important and necessary issues around the UN and assistance. Norway has a high level of involvement with the United Nations and its organisations. It is linked to the fact that the UN is the most important global organisation, both in terms of mandate, global integration and its wide range of responsibilities. World society is constantly facing major challenges. It is about combating hunger and poverty, dealing with wars and conflicts, and also natural disasters, to mention something. The world needs an organisation capable of meeting all these challenges, where the world community is jointly seeking to solve the problems. The UN is today the only organisation that can do so and is unique in the development of binding international standards and regulations, and which, through negotiations, adopts conventions and international obligations. There is no other forum for finding peaceful solutions to conflicts in the same way as with the UN — including in the case of the Millennium Goals, adopted by the countries in 2000. I believe that there is no other arena where one can likewise arrive at goals and common understanding of what needs to be done, and how the world community must act together. Norway has always been a friend of the United Nations, both economically and politically, but that does not mean that we are not a critical friend. It is in Norwegian interest to have a global legal order and an organisation that works on the ground. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark addresses issues relating to the effectiveness, performance and adaptability of UN organisations. I think all of this is important. When Norway contributes as much resources as we actually do, it should be lacking that we do not expect the money we contribute to be spent in the best possible way. Today, many organisations linked to the United Nations system are mandated to each other, which have complex funding and management systems and which have different reporting requirements. In the 2011 state budget, the government is going through our financial support to the UN organisations, both in terms of situation description, what Norwegian funds will be used for, and not least last year's report. What we can see from this is that the UN is successful in many areas, but that there is a need for improvement on others. Norwegian support to the UN on the ground is largely concentrated on the large funds, programmes and special organisations. The UN Development Programme, UNDP, and the UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF, are among others: central. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark is occupied by UNDP and has previously used, among others. a lack of results in Uganda as an example of the failure of UN organisations. If we take the UNDP for granted, I'd say it's a positive development in relation to the Millennium Goals, even though it's a long way back. These include: UNDP's profit. It can be seen that women’s and gender equality work has produced results, that justice and human rights institutions have been strengthened in many countries, and that UNDP has helped more than a hundred countries to develop climate adaptation plans — as some examples. So the picture is a little bit more nuanced than maybe the representative Skovholt Gitmark is drawing. I think it has been good that Norway has been involved in driving forward and getting decisions on comprehensive budgetary reforms in the boards for, among other things. UNDP and UNICEF, with the aim of achieving better results. Norway has for a long time been engaged in a reform of the United Nations and its organisations. We know that the Prime Minister, by being one of the leaders of the reform panel, has been very committed to this work, precisely because there is a need for improvements, and because we want Norwegian funds to be used in the best possible way. I believe that it is still important that Norway participates in the governing bodies of the United Nations organisations in order to gain more influence. Perhaps Norway should also expect to have more places and positions within the UN system than we have today. The UN never gets better than the Member States want the organisation to be. Is the UN getting better or worse if countries like Norway just cut off support for central organisations? Should we not use our contributions, our power and influence just to improve? I believe that is also a central part of this debate. I believe it is important that we show solidarity, take responsibility and contribute to the optimum functioning of the most important organisation in the world society. There are good opportunities for Norway to contribute, and I hope that we can have a good debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e686	Let me thank the interpellant, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, for taking this initiative, and I would also like to thank the State Council, Solheim, for an answer that was largely positive. Although on this occasion I find reason to add that even though the post to the Council of State was marked by a lot of positiveness, in my opinion, enough of the content was not entirely in line with what has been the government's actions in the five years we have now had a red-green government. The interpellant indicates that Norway is nearly 8 billion. kr in direct support to the UN nearly 100 sub-organisations. So the UN has fifteen special organizations, eleven funds and programmes, five research institutions, seven human rights and treaty bodies, three marine bodies, ten environmental bodies, a number of different other types of bodies and an infinity of commissions, committees and selections. In addition, Norway provides assistance to more than one hundred countries, partly through a total of 37 000 relief organisations worldwide. The use of money is huge. It is therefore not enough to carry out an ongoing review of the United Nations activities. A thorough analysis of all enterprises benefiting from Norwegian taxpayers’ money needs to be carried out on a regular basis. The government is engaged in capacity building and in post-tests when measuring results – but to different degrees. An application in the 2011 draft government budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the word ‘capacity building’ is 221 hits. By contrast, search on the words'measurements of results' matches only one match. If the relationship between all the capacity-building activities of the United Nations system and the actual results provided by the organisation is similar, then it is time to look for other and more effective assistance channels. The State budget for 2011 includes: read Norway is the largest contributor of core contributions and the sixth largest donor of additional funds to the UN Development Programme; UNDP was the second largest donor of public funds to UNICEF in 2009 that Norway was the third largest donor of core contributions to the UN Population Fund in 2009 that Norway was the fourth largest donor to the UN Aid Programme in 2009 that Norway was the second largest contributor measured in contributions per capita and the sixth largest contributor in total to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees What do we get out of this? A 2007 NUPI report states that it has become more important to maintain the aid exposure, in particular through the UN, than to deliver concrete results. This is really a very strong criticism of the way in which the government organizes the aid work. But the government is – both in the Common Era this year, in Soria Moria II and in the State budget for 2011 – most concerned about the high level of money use, and at least it must be at least 1 pst. of Norway’s gross national income. We need to be able to demand audacity in the reporting of results and to distinguish cause and effect. In the 2011 government budget, the government writes among others. that the UN Programme of Development in Burma has helped to ensure higher income, improved food security and life base for more than 75 000 people after the 2007 Cyclone. And further, in Sudan, UNICEF, in cooperation with the authorities, helped to facilitate the roll-in of 429 360 children in primary school. But I find reason to ask if it is only the United Nations profit that the results in question were achieved, and to what extent other contributors have participated. In the 2010 draft government budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government states that there are so many management problems and so much need for reform in the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the FAO, that there is no basis for renewing the Programme Cooperation Agreement. In spite of this, the FAO is considered to be the main forestry institution in the United Nations and a significant part of the multilateral support for the UN Programme for the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, UN-REDD, is channelled through the organisation. You have to be a bit of an optimist if you realize that when the foundation is so weak, the results of money use will be excellent. It is an important matter the interpellant has taken up. We look forward to a further good debate. It's a lot of money, and there's good reason to encourage the government to follow this even more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e723	Let me first thank the representative of Skovholt Gitmark for addressing such an important theme and also the Council of State for his answers, which shows in many ways an attitude that covers much of the Christian People's Party's view. I know that there is an important topic to debate, and the debate is most necessary. Norway is good at assistance, and we give a lot. Then it is very important all the time to discuss how this assistance can be used in the best possible way. In this sense, I fully agree with the fact that there are the results that count, that both the inter-pellant and the state councils have been in. But when there's the result that counts, that means that it has to be as effective as possible. But I also mean that at the same time it means that we have to give as much as possible, because that's also going to be the best result. I am impatient to get an even better result, so I do not want to settle down with 1 pst. I also mean that the number of dollars given is important, because I think we're good at assistance, and that it gives results. That is why I want even better results. For several decades Norway has provided international solidarity and poverty-oriented assistance. We have also consistently supported the UN as a global cooperation forum and as a travel hub to ensure peace, human rights and development. We want to further this will to international solidarity and the use of the United Nations system. At the same time, UN organisations, like others, need to be assessed on the basis of their effectiveness as aid channels. The UN resource transfers for assistance give us a clear responsibility to follow up the assistance with critical evaluation, constructive impact and effective priority: evaluation because it is important to know how we achieve the best possible effect, impact because we want to use our influence as providers to improve the UN agencies – not just to cut or increase the permissions – priority because it will turn Norwegians into effective channels of assistance that can lift people out of poverty. Norway has long tried to influence the way UN agencies work. As donors, we gain influence in governance and advice. Sometimes we have also limited the supplements to inefficient organs and increased the transfers to others who work better. In the debate, the interpellant gave an example of FAO. When the Christian People's Party had the Development Councils, we also used the power to limit support and slow her down, because we saw that she was not very effective. We also prioritised other UN agencies that were more efficient and innovative. We have a lot of aid channels to play on. Therefore, a critical comparison of the effectiveness of the various assistance agencies is not an argument for cutting in the assistance framework. But I see a certain risk that someone will use such a comparison of efficiency as a traveler to another goal, simply to reduce Norway's total aid effort. If that is the purpose, I disagree. We would like to improve the system of systematic review of UN organisations to measure their effectiveness as aid channels. But then it's important to think about two things. Firstly, different UN agencies have quite different tasks, and we need to find measurement methods that take account of them. Let me take the health sector as an example. The World Health Organisation, WHO, acts as a professional clarification centre and has an important legislative function for health work. The UN Children’s Fund, UNICEF, carries out a great deal of work as advisers to national administrations and in the field. On the other hand, a public-private alliance covering far more than just UN agencies, GAVI, in the last decade, has renewed funding mechanisms for health assistance and, not least, strengthened access to money for vaccine coverage and the development of new vaccines needed by poor countries. UNDP has other roles to play, including: in the case of coordination between aid actors, distributions and consular tasks for developing countries and for UN rentals. Secondly, the donor countries must – as far as possible – coordinate the evaluation activities so that they are implemented transparently, efficiently and able to adhere to UN agencies. A wide range of proprietary reviews from donor countries and crackdown requirements for change will only mean more bureaucracy and less efficiency. A United Nations at land level is therefore an important objective, and there is ample room for improvement here. Administration costs become high if many small-budget organisations have their own administrations in many countries. It has been said that the UN cannot become a better body than the Member States do in practice. Reform requirements must therefore be addressed both to the administration of the UN organisations and to the donor and recipient countries. Only together can we be closed down in UN reforms to increase efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e755	Yeah, it's the results that count. Let me also thank you for submitting an interpellation on exactly the United Nations and assistance. I have been one of the representatives of the Storting from time to time with parliamentarians from the other Nordic countries to evaluate projects under the auspices of UN organisations several times in the last 15 years. Last time was in Mozambique. Now it's exactly three years ago. Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world, but a country with a positive development policy. They've also done what not everyone has done in Africa, namely get out of a long-term civil war in a proper way. But like so many other places in southern Africa, HIV/AIDS is the major threat to both growth and development. Many of the projects we visited, which were run by the United Nations Development Programme, UNDP, were measures to prevent HIV infection. I think we were all impressed – and encouraged – when we visited a clinic in Maputo that gave advice to girls and boys about – yes, just – condom use, but that also took care of pregnant HIV infected young women who had developed AIDS. And that's not easy, or as one of the nurses said with a fixed glance at us, the worst is to tell them that they're going to die. We visited secondary schools in rural areas, where the students played the revision of how cool and trendy it was to use condoms, and UNDP's home help services for AIDS-sick women with children, women who the men had left after having infected them, and a number of other projects. These are projects that work, and these are very concrete, ground-based projects. If we compare with another place I was in the 1990s, also with the UN organisations, namely Laos, I remember being impressed by the UNDP's training of parliamentarians for democracy. In fact, I believe that UNDP, UNICEF and the UN High Commissioner in the field are among the best-performing aid organisations. UNDP is also the UN Resident Coordinator in very many countries, and has been so for a long time. Moreover, these organisations have not dared to leave. In the winter before 11 September 2001, Afghan women and children were freezing in their heels in the refugee camps in Pakistan during the winter. They had fled from the Taliban. There was no CNN effect, and the only relief organization was therefore UNHCR, the United Nations refugee organisation, which obviously did not have enough money. Nor is it the case that Norad’s evaluation report represents an overall judgment on the aid work of the UN organisations. Here, there are both positive and negative assessments, and of course, we must always make a continuous assessment of both the UN and other organisations' assistance. It is true, as was said here, that UN friends must also make criticism when necessary. The UN is the only world organisation and therefore has universal legitimacy. For example, the UN's Millennium Goals are: essential as a driving force for poverty reduction and incentives for growth, development and mitigation. The Millennium Goals commit Member States to the environment, peace, security, development, poverty reduction, education and democracy. The most well-known goal is to halve poverty by 2015. The UN has just concluded a summit on the Millennium Goals. It turns out that progress has been made in all areas, not least through the UN's efforts. October 31st is 10 years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women in war and peace – or women in war and women when peace is to be built. 1325 has been and is a necessary premise to prevent violence and ensure participation and rights for women worldwide. The United Nations is very important in the design of universal processes and development policy principles and is doing a good job at the land level in the field. That is why the UN is also in a special position as a channel for Norwegian aid. But the UN is also important in being legislative and is the only organisation with authority and legitimacy to premise and set goals for development and global smoothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e774	It is with great interest that I have listened to both the inter-pellant and the Minister for the Environment and Development in this matter. It's a very important topic for the interpellant, not least because we spend considerable money in a year at the UN. So thank you to the interpellant for addressing this important topic. We have heard that the UN consists of nearly 100 organisations, including commissions, committees and selections. That it is time to focus attention on all these different committees, selections and organisations, says itself. We have heard for a long time about the reform work in the United Nations. But if I'm going to be honest, there's very little I know about the results of this reform. I have to say I was a little impressed when I heard the Council of State now tell about what they contributed to the reform work, but nevertheless I believe that for the United Nations itself this should be better known for its legitimacy. It goes without saying that with so many different sub-organisations you can quickly lose the overview. On my visits around the United Nations system, I experience without exception that organisations and committees and selections thank Norway for our contribution and for being so shy. And then it's not free for me to wonder what requirements and criteria we give money, and what results the United Nations organizations have to point to. Before the council comes in with a hard attack on the Progress Party, which is the expected rhetoric, I'll ask him to listen. Of course, we will also help people in need, and of course we will help to stabilise peace, and not least, of course, we will also help people in the world get a proper health and education offer. But, for it is a but, even when one hears from the Vice-Presidents in the mandate revision process, only 56 p.m. of the mandates of the humanitarian cluster are timely and relevant, that 35 pst. of the terms of reference of the African cluster are relevant, and that the process of eliminating obsolete and out-of-date mandates has almost ceased, yes, then I think it is timely to ask the question: What is the United Nations doing? Is the UN about to drown in its own bureaucracy – and is that what we are giving money for? Fortunately, as the Council of State said, the world has improved, and it has become a more peaceful place to live in. However, the United Nations budgets have decreased proportionally with the peace in the world – from the 2000–2001 budget of 5.5 billion. US dollars for the 2009-2010 budget of SEK 4.9 billion. US dollars. It is permissible to impose requirements on different UN organisations. Isn't it time for Norway, like Sweden and other nations, to review the benefits of our contributions to the UN, and how much of our contributions actually reach people who need help? I also think that the interpellant asks a good question about this. In the Council of Europe, where the Secretary-General is Norwegian, action has been taken. Half a year after he was hired, he has made a major and far-reaching reform proposal, both to keep costs down and not least to make the institution more efficient. Committees and sample sizes have been assessed as well as the number of employees. This has been far from a simple process; it has been relatively demanding, and the bureaucracy in the institution is obviously not particularly cooperative. But this is nevertheless being driven in the future precisely to ensure that the Council of Europe will also have legitimacy in the future and be an effective and forward-looking institution. The UN reform work can hardly be called effective, and this is where the UN should gradually know its visitation time and speed up this work. So, when Norway is the seventh largest contributor to the UN, the fifth largest contributor to the organisation’s operational activities, it is high time that we demanded a reduction in non-relevant mandates, a more efficient organisation and a better overview of what our contributions are spent on – and perhaps most importantly, that reform work should continue, so that more of the country’s contributions go to what it was intended to do, and not to bureaucracy and administration around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e794	Thank you very much to all those who have contributed to making this a constructive debate. My wish is that this should contribute to a concrete follow-up, and that the follow-up should be clearer in relation to the Ministry's own objectives both in terms of evaluation and in terms of what we are doing and what we expect back. There have been almost exclusively constructive contributions to the debate. It would have been a lot to catch up on as a conclusion here, but I want to say that the legitimacy of the UN is about two things: it is about the results that the UN is able to contribute to, and it is about the view that Member States have on the organisation, their presence in the organisation and the role that Member States play in the organisation. Our role as a nation must be that we are a constructive critic: a critic who should contribute to the return of the reform process, a critic who contributes to the improvement of the efficiency of the 100 sub-organisations than today, a critic who shows all the amazing UN contributes to – and a critic who continues to focus on bureaucracy, inefficiency and a cumbersome system. Because it also exists. There is no reason why the UNDP on the one hand, in some cases, is going to be fantastic on the ground – but when you find out how the headquarters is built, it is perceived as evenly over heavy and bureaucratic. Nor is there any reason why other organisations should have neither members nor employees, nor should they be anything other than effective problem-solving agents. This is well ahead of time, but without Norway’s clear, clear voice, this work will also take longer. But I would say that cooperation between Norway and Sweden is essential. The more like-minded countries Norway is able to cooperate with, the greater the power we can back up the demands, and the faster the kind of change processes will take place. For the last two decades, the Council of State has been amazing. But the main essence of the last two decades is, on the one hand, a development of wealth we have never seen before, and a UN that has actually been on the ground rests in terms of reform work for the last ten years. I hope that the world will see even better results when there is one large world organisation that contributes to the mandate, also in full relation to what we, as Member States, want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e807	Let me first tell the representative of the Christian People's Party that I fully agree. Assistance gives good results. Therefore, the level of assistance should be raised. I can also offer the political alliance that can help the Christian People's Party with this, because the SV and the Christian People's Party are the parties that have stood for this most, hardest and most clearly ever. And there's no doubt that if this is important for the Christian People's Party, then it's the red-green ones that can help with it. Let this be an input to the internal clarification of the Christian People's Party. So also to the Progress Party: what often disappears in the debate is that the Progress Party represents what is really a very high level of assistance internationally. I don't know what's in the budget this year, but it'll be about 15 billion. kr. Many countries are striving to reach the level of assistance of the Progress Party. That's why it's so strange that the Progress Party almost never talks nice about the assistance, tells us about the good results it leads to, so that it helps to inform its voters about the great results that the Progress Party's 15 billion. kr on the aid budget will lead to – I assume that is why you have such a high aid budget – but always criticises. Can we not hear a little about why it is going forward, and how the aid contributes to this? When e.g. The representative Myhre is in Africa and travels in countries where the level of education is in the weather, where there is enormous economic activity, and where you want to invest because it's going so fast and the assistance is one of the factors of this, so please talk about it. With regard to the UN, it is clear that one of the dilemmas of performance orientation is that many of the UN organisations are large systems. That means they're doing something good and something bad. It's no different than for LO and NHO – no one will say that those organisations are doing just good or just bad. Even the Progress Party, or any political party, usually does something good and bad. Our task is to eliminate the bad aspects of these organisations and promote the good. This cannot mean either giving money to them or not, but helping to improve them through the use of money. Very often, assistance through the UN responds to the coordination of assistance requested by developing countries. So that's why we're giving. Almost all of our education assistance now through UNICEF over many bilateral programmes. So finally, I feel that this debate has clarified that all parties – I don't know exactly when it comes to the Progress Party, but at least all other parties – have a common platform. It assumes that there is a lot going forward in the world a day. These are good results, and the UN is not the only one, but an important factor that contributes to it. The second is that the UN has an incredibly important normative role in creating the rules of the world society, and the third is that Norway should be a critical friend of the UN – we should be critical and demand results, not good intentions, but actual, delivered results. We're going to demand less bureaucracy, and we're going to demand that UN organisations not duplicate each other, but work for one UN at country level. And based on all of this, I want to take what's said here, that maybe there might be things that the Swedes have done, that we can do better. Let's learn from them, and anyway, let's develop a better cooperation between Norway and Sweden on this whole policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e818	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e834	The debate today is the closest thing you get to my starting point as a politician. The area I'm now lifting may be a little different from the other environmental debates we've had, because the classic environmental protection areas often end up hiding from the big climate debate. But that doesn't mean there's no big challenge. We have our own clothing in Norway that has been named after the big challenge we are talking about. It's the southwest, which all fishermen along the coast have been wearing. 90 pst. of all the wind in Norway comes from that direction. So 90 pst. by the wind that hits this country, comes from the very area of the United Kingdom that I am going to talk about today. This is one thing I've been doing since we started the Dounreay campaign in 1986. The left was outside the Stortinget, but we collected 250,000 signatures. We got a decision from 280 local government and 19 counties to stop the Dounreay plant, which is now being closed. A few years ago, Gunnar Kvassheim collected 40,000 signatures and delivered them to the English Embassy to stop the waste that I am now talking about. In August 2008, eight of the Left’s major representatives were on the study trip to look at the plant. The plant in question is located in the United Kingdom. It's a nuclear waste facility where nuclear waste is recovered. A lot of waste is created in that process. It has been decided to stop the Sellafield plant in 2015. Both we and the United Kingdom have signed the OSPAR Treaty, which says we should have zero emissions to the sea by 2020. The major challenge for this whole area is that the plant has had an incredible number of failures – many small and many large. The last big one was in 2009, as the President referred to in the interpellation text. There are long contracts for the supply of waste to this facility, which means that many of us fear that it will both take longer to liquidate it and that there is a greater risk associated with the plant than you can imagine. That's why I think it's very good that the government made sure that the State Radiation Protection in 2009 made a report with an analysis of what could happen in the event of an accident. It's not a little thing! What has been assessed is only emissions from inventories. There are very many other accidents that can happen at this facility, other than those that have been assessed. However, it shows that within nine hours, we will be able to fall over Norway — most of it over the West, but all over the country — which is 50 times Chernobyl. It's quite enormous, and you have quite a short time. Nine hours makes most of us unable to jump out of the country if we have to. This is a conservative report. There are very few places in the world where we really see large landfills of toxic waste. We have now seen a large landfill of toxic waste in Hungary. We have seen the consequences of the old-fashioned industrial process of landfilling waste in this way can get. The disaster we see in Hungary is quite small compared to what an accident at the Sellafield plant could lead to, mostly for the whole of the West. When we were in the Bondevik II administration, we went out very hard when it came to cleaning up technesium-99. In 2001, the pressure was brought to bear, and we managed to get the UK government to stop emissions. It shows that a large pressure is actually quite important, not only from a government, but also from environmental organisations and from everyone else who promises this. This isn't just thinking things. It leaks from these installations all the time. That's the way it is today. The report shows us what huge consequences it will have for the sea, nature, animals and people in our country if something happens wrong here. So my questions to the Council of State are, how are we going to work to reduce the risk of an accident? Is it possible to get a national effort to push English authorities to stop this earlier? And what does it really have when we get a report from Straw liver that says with a conservative estimate that if we get an emission accident on one of the stocks – not on the whole plant, but on one of the stocks – we have up to 50 times Chernobyl over Norway in nine hours? I guess the Council of State has some good answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e853	Let me start by giving honey to the left, because it's right as the interpellant says, that both she personally and the party Left have a very proud story in this area. The left has been a driving force in keeping the Sellafield issue alive in the political debate in Norway and has been constantly good at creating pressure in this area. I take off my hat for that. It's an incredibly important job left has done in that area. Sellafield goes into a broader picture of the various nuclear potential threats facing Norway. We have nuclear threats from the Kola Peninsula, from north-west Russia, from St. Petersburg and also potentially further south, in what used to be called Eastern Europe. Chernobyl is, as we all know, in Ukraine. In Norway, we have facilities in Halden and in Kjeller that create fissile materials, although we believe that we have good control over them. This is why, under all governments, Norway has been very active in international efforts to prevent the proliferation of this material for use in weapons and to prevent it from posing a threat to the population. Sellafield has large tanks of liquid high-activity waste. There are installations where emissions will be particularly large in the event of an accident. There is more radioactivity in these tanks than what was released in the Chernobyl accident. Our overall assessment is that the risk of an accident is small, but the consequences of an accident, if it should occur, are colossal. It's sometimes the way in human life that you don't think it's so very likely that it will happen, fortunately, but it will have drastic consequences if it happens. I was not aware of the origin of the term'south-west', so there I learned something new from Trine Skei Grande's interpellation. What is certain is that in almost all scenarios the winds from the United Kingdom blow against Norway. We've made weather maps of this, and the most sovereign thing is that in any accident at Sellafield, the wind will carry waste in our direction. It blows our way, so to speak. Norway is not alone concerned about the Sellafield plant. Of course, the UK authorities are also addressing this. The United Kingdom itself is potentially at the highest risk. A report prepared by the UK safety authorities following a major leakage at the Thorp plant in 2005 addressed extensive criticism of the safety culture of the plant. All of this is the reason why, as the interpellant said, I asked the Straw Delivery to find out more what the consequence would be for Norway if parts of the waste stored at Sellafield were to be discharged. That report from the State Radiation Protection Agency was submitted last year. In the report, the straw liver calculates the level of deposition of radioactive substances over Norway in case of major emissions to air from the waste tanks at Sellafield. The calculations show that if 1 pst. the waste is discharged into the atmosphere, the precipitation at the worst affected sites in Norway may be up to five times greater than after the Chernobyl accident. If 10 pst. the waste is emitted is estimated, as the interpellant says, to be 50 times greater than in the Chernobyl accident. So the consequences of such a worst-case scenario for the environment, agriculture and health could obviously be very significant, and it could last for decades. The report from the Straw liver again explains that we have every reason to take this potential threat seriously. Even if it's small, the consequences will be so big that no one can ignore them. It is very important in this room to remember that the responsibility for the Sellafield plant as a whole is a British responsibility, and that of course the British authorities have a strong self-interest in reducing this danger. Our impression is that the British authorities take this responsibility seriously. It is also our impression that the new owners of the Sellafield plant have helped to improve the safety culture. They have also been willing to engage in dialogue with Norway in this area and consistently set up meetings and show a culture of transparency that is better than before. At a meeting chaired by Bellona and Lofoten v. Sellafield in Brussels in March, attended by the Ministry of the Environment and the Straw liver, the UK authorities claimed that the work on reducing the amounts of waste is planned and a comprehensive plan for strengthening the safety of the plant was presented. The test of this claim that the safety culture and the quantity of waste are handled better than before is, in our opinion, two-fold. One is how quickly the British manage to reduce the amount of highly active liquid waste by converting it into solid, stable waste by so-called vitrification. The British have set themselves the target of reducing the amount of waste to less than 200 m3 during 2015. We expect this target to be met, and I also expect that the amount will be further reduced to a level that does not represent a significant pollution hazard for neighbouring countries, such as Norway. Of course, Ireland and other countries are just as concerned about this as we are. The second thing, in addition to the so-calledvitrification, is that we want to see in concrete terms what is done to strengthen safety, thereby reducing the likelihood of larger emissions from the plant. Here, an important indicator will be whether we continue to experience failures in the cooling systems of the waste tanks or other types of incidents that indicate that safety is not under satisfactory control. In addition to these two key elements — thevitrification and safety culture of the plant — transparency and access to information are very important. There have been improvements in recent years, but it is still, in our opinion, too difficult to access information that says something about the likelihood of events leading to larger emissions. This was made clear during the work of the Radiation Protection Agency on the report and made work on establishing realistic emission scenarios more difficult than would otherwise have been necessary. The British justification was that the safety of the plant and the risk that such information could be misused if it became publicly known. However, we strongly urge the British authorities to be even more transparent than they have so far shown in this area, and will constantly address this. We have addressed Sellafield on a series of occasions in recent years, both at Prime Minister level and in my contact with British authorities – both in bilateral discussions and in letters, last year in letters to Ed Miliband, who has now become even higher in the UK system, but who was responsible for this. Having said all of this, I would like to stress that a good dialogue has been established between State radiation protection and British nuclear safety and environmental authorities. We have a good relationship with the British Embassy in Oslo, which has been good at providing us with information. The organisations Lofoten v. Sellafield and Bellona have also established a useful channel for the exchange of opinions and information in the form of annual meetings with those who own and operate the Sellafield plant and with the UK authorities. Both the Straw Delivery and the Ministry of Environmental Protection attend these meetings, and they are prepared by the British side. The Ministry has also contributed financial support to these events. The radiation protection report will now be followed up with a detailed assessment of how the estimated precipitation could affect the environment. This new study will be based on the estimates of potential precipitation after a release at Sellafield and the experience of the Chernobyl accident. The study will focus on game and livestock on outdoor pastures as well as on the radioactivity of mushrooms and berries. These were some of the areas most affected by the Chernobyl accident. The report will be sent to the Ministry of the Environment in the near future and will be followed up by estimates of radiation doses to humans. Of course, this material will be used actively in our dialogue with the British authorities, and of course it will be freely available in Norway for everyone who wants to participate and influence the debate. The Ministry of the Environment and I will continue to follow closely the situation at Sellafield. If there is something that suggests that the work on reducing the risk of emissions is not going to be as expected, I will make sure that this is properly addressed with the British authorities and that the Storting is briefed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e894	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Some of the things I had planned to address in the follow-up, also addressed the Council of State, namely that it is already in line with the report that it is difficult to access information. I think it is important to have pressure that we should have access to information about such a great danger that is hanging over us all. I also hope that new studies will be presented in full transparency. The lesson of Chernobyl is that people didn't entirely take pride in the information that came. You were afraid that you were being screened not to be frightened. I want to comment on two things that the council said. One is that it's not considered to be a big risk that an accident is going to happen. It seems to me that there have been quite a lot of accidents and faults at the plant, last year at the latest, where it would have been very little more before there had actually been a major disaster. When the whole plant's cooling stops for four hours, it only needs a little spark before we have a major disaster. The second is that we see terror in many areas of society. Terrorism related to installations like this will have enormous consequences. We see that data crime also includes hackers in such areas, which also increases the risk associated with such facilities. So my question is then whether the Council of State has included it in the calculation when he doesn't think there's a great risk that something can actually happen. The second is whether initiatives have been taken in relation to the new government. There, the Left will take its initiative towards those we have taken action against – we have already started – but the question is about the government that the government has been in contact with the new British government, where it is a party that has been against nuclear power and that has been very much on the Left's side in the fight against this plant. I wonder if it is also possible to get help from the government to press the British government as a whole to find good solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e905	To start with the last question: we are now in a process of establishing contact with all the state councils that are natural partners in different fields. I have already begun to meet with those who are involved in the environment and development in various areas, but – as in any new government – it is clear that the UK government's main focus has been so far on the domestic policy agenda and on the many reforms and cuts they are going to undergo in British policy. But it should not be up to us to establish that contact, and we would like to welcome a cooperation with the Left on contact in that area. Here, the duality of any party contacts in combination with state contacts will be only a strength. I fully agree with the interpellant that information is incredibly important. The nuclear industry has traditionally been a highly secretive industry. It has partly had its reasons in the fear, as was also mentioned here, of terrorism, potential abuse in the arms industry, and there are many others in and on legitimate grounds, but certainly also an exaggerated belief that if you just don't inform enough, people will be less frightened. I share the interpellant's view, that the opposite is the case. We need maximum information, and we will continually press both the British authorities and the owners of the facility to get maximum information. As for the dangers of terrorism and other potential threats, I'm not going to raise myself to any major expert in that area, but I'm going to think that there are other nuclear installations in the world that pose a major potential threat of terror to humanity. It is not necessarily a terrorist action on the plant itself that will be the biggest terrorist threat, but it is in itself that a non-governmental actor and an extreme group should have control of fissile material that could be used to contaminate drinking water, contaminate a city – you don't have to create a bomb, don't have to blow up a plant to have a completely drastic impact. So it's an extreme danger, not especially for the United Kingdom and Norway, but for humanity if that happens, and it has to be combated by all legal and sensible means. But I don't think that terrorist danger is specific to Sellafield, although, of course, it also exists there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e914	I also want to start by giving honey to the interpellant. I am very happy that the focus is placed on this matter in the storeroom. Hopefully, Parliament's involvement will help to put further pressure on the British. I think that's good. Looks like we've got a long time before Sellafield is dangerous. We're talking about storing liquid high-radioactive waste on the ground. We're talking about quantities of waste that you can produce 4,000 atomic bombs of. The potential for a discharge is 100 times greater than it was in Chernobyl. In fact, a serious accident can ultimately destroy large parts of Europe. There are dimensions above this that it's hard to take over. I remember very well the criticism of Bondevik I to have too much focus on Sellafield, almost to cover up the fact that you didn't have the big environmental issues to talk about at home. I did not agree with that criticism. It was, of course, things to criticize around Bondevik I's environmental policy; it's not that, but the commitment to Sellafield was certainly not one of those things. The report to which the interpellant refers should concern us all. It shows that the consequences can be even more serious than what we have believed in now, and I am glad that the Ministry of Environment has made it. There were two episodes last year that broke the cooling system, and it illustrates with all intents and purposes that safety is not good enough. Liquid high-radioactive waste is frightfully unstable, and Norway is such that a release will almost certainly hit us. I was also not aware of the origin of the word ‘south-west’, but I have also learned something today. Although we have new owners at Sellafield, and even though the work to reduce the amount of waste is planned, I don't think the British's attitude is particularly reassuring when they tell us that it is unlikely that we will experience a large discharge from Sellafield. It also makes me extremely skeptical that there are still problems with transparency and access to information. Some of the most critical after the release that we had in the new year last year, I actually think it took so long for the outside world to be notified. The British authorities then spent five days telling us what had happened, and that is totally unacceptable. There are many Norwegian politicians who have committed themselves to having Sellafield closed. Gunnar Kvassheim has been mentioned – he deserves honor. Thorbjørn Berntsen was in his time strongly engaged as Minister of Environmental Protection. He did contribute to enriching the English language, without me quoting his mention by his British colleague for environmental protection directly. I guess it would have been turned down as an unparliamentary language usage. But it was my opinion then – and I mean it in particular still – that it was an appropriate description. Our primary position is that the plant must be shut down. Unfortunately, we're not the ones who decide. The time for stopping operations is constantly shifted and new contracts are being concluded. It's worrying. We know that at least there will be operations until 2020. It requires a significant improvement in safety. We have positive signals from the new owners, but this requires continuous follow-up from the government. I'm glad you've made it now, and I take it as a matter of course that you keep doing it. I find it difficult to talk about Sellafield without reflecting on the use of nuclear power in general. Today, more than 50 years after the first nuclear power stations were put into operation, we have not reached a centimetre more to harmless the waste. We can only store it, and it's spent decades and billions of years in research on improving the storage methods. Sweden and Finland have for 20 years tried to find a way to store their own nuclear waste from their own power plants in stable mountain soils. They hope to be able to start storing their waste, which is now in a water bath, after 2020. Then it would have taken them 40 years and almost 50 billion. kr to find a solution. In the meantime, Sweden sent parts of its waste for reprocessing in Sellafield. So it's not the operation of nuclear power plants themselves that's the big problem, it's the handling and storage of the waste. In Sellafield, the nuclear power plant was closed in 2003, but it will take 85 years to dismantle and clean up. That's the way it is with the shut-down of nuclear power plants elsewhere in the world as well. The British are now planning new nuclear power stations based on the reprocessing of nuclear waste from Sellafield. It's worrying. The use of nuclear power means to expose ourselves and nature to the worst possible threat. Part of the waste is harmless only after nearly 1 million years. Then we talk about generational policy in the very utmost sense of the word. We should probably all reflect on that a little bit when nuclear power is constantly being launched away as the solution to the world's climate problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e940	There will be only a relatively brief comment from the Progress Party, for this is one thing all the parties on the Stortinget are initially standing behind. Governments have the support of the Advance Party in the signals he has given. This is a matter that has accumulated the games over time, and it has been a topic for a long time. I also participated in the previous period, in the Energy and Environment Committee, and it was a subject long before that. It is worrying when there is so much doubt and uncertainty about waste management from nuclear power plants. England is doing itself a good job if they take this matter very seriously, for the English are probably going to bet more on nuclear power in the future. Regardless of what some in Norway think about nuclear power, it is part of what many see as the solution to the world’s CO2 challenges combined with the world’s energy challenges. We might want this off, but it's not going to happen. We know that in Sweden and Finland a waste is handled in a slightly different way, and even if you can say that they have not found the eternal stock for it, the new nuclear power is being built in Finland. With regard to the waste storage plans in Sweden and Finland, we know that no stock is planned to be stockpiled there, because they realize that when the fourth generation nuclear power plant comes into operation, a few decades ahead, today’s waste will be a raw material they use. That's what I think we're going to take over and not use this case to attack nuclear power as an energy form in general. We will take care of those facilities that do not meet the safety requirements that you want both in Norway and globally. There may be good people, and there may be bad people, but the fact that there are some bad people in a field doesn't mean that one should also ban everything the good people are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e956	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an important issue. As others have noted, the 2009 report of the State Radiation Protection Agency shows that an accident at Sellafield can have major consequences, especially for the West. As the Council of State also pointed out, the State's radiation protection system estimates that after an accident at Sellafield, the fall could be 10–50 times dropped after Chernobyl. It's serious. We know that accidents can happen. We don't have to go further than Hungary lately to get it confirmed. In other words, Norway can be hit very hard, with the consequences it has for people and nature throughout the country, but especially along the coast of the West. There have been many cases at the Sellafield plant, several of which have been in the building, but parts of the plant were shut down in 2005 due to leakages. It was reopened in 2007, after I perceived it as Norwegian protests. However, the intention is that the part of the plant we are talking about here should be permanently closed from 2010. If it's implemented, it's unknown to me, but maybe the Council of State can answer that. I myself raised the issue of Sellafield in questions to the Council of State on 10 February this year. I shall therefore not draw the debate out in the long run. However, I would like to stress the importance of cooperation with other countries affected by the security of Sellafield. This applies in the first row to the United Kingdom itself, but also to Ireland and the EU. The Council of State set out in February the contact he had with his British colleague Ed Miliband about this, a contact that could certainly prove useful in quite different ways from the Council of State originally thought. I also notice that the Council of State believes that Ed Miliband now has a higher position than he had before, and that the Council of State thus sets the role of opposition leader over the Council of State, and that is, of course, alarming in its own way. In his reply to me on 10 February this year, the Council of State stated that immediately after the May elections he would contact the new British authorities to ‘press them too’. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State has used the opportunity to raise the issue for its new Conservative British colleague, Caroline Spelman, and that he can explain the new government's view on the security of Sellafield. But I get the impression in the articles of the Council of State that he might not have the same definition of ‘immediately’ as that this representative has, even though I understand that a new government is going to do the same, and they have a lot on the plate. As mentioned, it would also be relevant to bring the case before the European Commission. On 10 February the Council of State stated: ‘Of course, when the new Commissioners come into place in Brussels, we will have a dialogue with them to see how we can possibly cooperate with the EU in this area.’ It is therefore natural to ask whether the Council of State has sought support in Brussels, and whether we can expect the EU to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e978	The representative Skei Grande is not alone in his concern about the consequences of any accident at the Sellafield plant. A general principle for the Center Party is that our descendants will take over the earth in at least as good a condition as it was when we took over. If we're going to make it, it's hard to see that nuclear power fits into the image. Wastes from nuclear power generation require storage for hundreds of years — at least. The waste may be used in the production of weapons. The consequences of the Chernobyl accident have still not escaped the roof, even here in Norway. In my homelands, Hedmark and Uppland, farmers still have to deal with the aftermath of the Chernobyl accident that occurred in 1986. In 2008, almost 10,000 sheep on special diets had to spend the summer on the outback. The numbers didn't look much lighter in 2009. In order to obtain radioactivity out of the body, ovine animals must be fattened on an inward or power-feed basis before they can be sent to slaughter. For the farmers affected, this leads to both economic challenges and challenges in finding good pastures. According to the County of Hedmark, farmers have to expect to do this for at least 30 more years. It's not just sheep and farmers who still notice the consequences of the accident. Food surveillance continues to recommend restrictions on the consumption of reindeer meat, freshwater fish, fungi and wild berries harvested in particularly vulnerable areas. Pregnant and young children must be particularly careful. Despite this, the consequences for Norway of the Chernobyl accident are rather small and largely manageable. It can go so much worse. Last year, the State's radiation protection system came up with a report for MD, which has now been referred to many times in the debate, where they concluded that in the worst case, a Sellafield accident could send fifty times more radioactive precipitation over Norway than was the case in the most severely affected area after Chernobyl. The occurrence of a worst-case accident would have consequences equal to or worse than those of Chernobyl. It has had some serious consequences for agriculture, the environment and society for decades to come, they wrote in the report. Fortunately, such an accident is not very likely, but until there is an impossibility that something like this may happen, we have a duty to do ours to avoid it. That is why I am pleased with the attention that interpellant, Norwegian authorities and organisations have on the matter, and with the focus that the Council of State is focusing on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e993	Unfortunately, the last week, we were once again shown that accidents that were not supposed to happen actually happen. Accidents have been called the red environmental disaster, which I thought was a trade that could have been used on other things, but we are talking of course about Hungary and not the Norwegian government. In Hungary, when the dam broke at the aluminium mill, it painted 1 million m3 with red, corrosive, toxic sludge in addition to several villages. One has already seen that seven people are dead, and 800 have eighty-eight refugees. In many ways, Europe is facing one of the most serious environmental disasters since the Chernobyl accident in 1986. Therefore, I must be allowed to thank the Left and the representative, Skei Grande, for taking up this interpellation and focusing on preparedness for what is unfulfilled, what cannot happen, putting it on the agenda and thus raising the debate on the Sellafield plant and nuclear preparedness and nuclear pollution into the Storting. The British nuclear plant Sellafield is the largest single source of radioactive pollution in the North West Atlantic. The plant treats nuclear waste from all over the world, and radioactive emissions from the plant are transported by sea currents from the Irish Sea and northwards to the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. So this is already happening today, but the consequences would be far greater if the unfulfilled and the impossible were to happen. The nuclear waste to which the interpellant refers as particularly risky is 1500 m3 of highly active liquid waste stored on Sellafield. Such waste requires continuous cooling and monitoring. If the cooling to the tanker fails, as the interpellant was about to do before, it could lead to a chemical explosion in the worst case. According to Bellona, the highly active liquid waste is stored in 21 different tanks, all inside the same massive warehouse inside Sellafield. The oldest thoughts are almost 50 years old. As a matter of certainty, these thoughts are the most vulnerable facility in Sellafield. An explosion, or terrorist action against the facility, could have disastrous human and environmental consequences. The report by the State's Radiation Protection Agency, on which the Left bases the interference, clearly shows the need for an active policy towards British authorities in relation to Sellafield. The main focus should be to contribute to the stability of as much of the highly active liquid waste as possible. I'm glad that the Council of State's response promised a great deal of pressure, because it's important. At the same time, I must also say that when I listened to the representative, Skei Grande, I was a little motivated to initiate new signature actions again. The radiation protection report shows that if a worst case scenario were to occur, for example: a terrorist attack, which more people have been involved in – which is not impossible – will be worse for Norway than what happened after Chernobyl. Of course, I was only one year when the Chernobyl accident occurred, in 1986. But the consequences of the accident, which everyone was talking about and everyone was experiencing, I have to live with the rest of Norway's population. If an accident occurs in Sellafield, and weather and wind conditions are at least favourable to Norway, the consequences will be dramatic – up to 10–50 times worse, as many have experienced. Agriculture, the environment and society would be affected for decades to come, and the Nordics had to start to rethink the content of becquerel in food. Another element that we haven't had enough time to debate, and which concerns me, is the climate challenge. Because even if this is another part of the climate challenge, the climate challenge will lead to even more nuclear investment. Although we have now been in several decades with promises of phase-out of nuclear energy in several places, note that there are several countries that have gone back on their phase-out strategy, for example. Sweden, and countries like the United States and China are not investing heavily in the construction of new nuclear power plants. Nuclear power is better than coal power from a climate point of view, but it also creates major environmental challenges as well as let us look at Sellafield today. Therefore, I hope that Norwegian authorities will give priority to the work of security on Sellafield through long-term and ongoing influence work, and that the Council of State will follow up what he promised today with a constant pressure on British authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1018	Firstly, I would like to thank the Stortinget for all the parties on the Stortinget. It was actually very important. Was it for the pressure needed in connection with the matter, for the pressure on our government and the pressure against the British government? Then I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Straw Delivery for a report that it was possible to deal with, sail if you are in a group of two. If everyone could make a 17-page investigation, it would have been much easier to acquire a slightly more difficult case than this. So I'd also like to introduce that from the pulpit. Then I want to associate a few comments with nuclear power. Norway has an energy use, on which we base our society, of oil and gas, which is quite short-sighted in view of the generations that are coming. But we can't turn the night off. Nuclear power is a short-thinking way of generating power, because it creates pollution for the coming generations. But no one says we can switch off overnight. Our sister party in England has driven a long campaign against nuclear power. They have entered the government and have now stopped all support for the construction of nuclear power in England. This is going to be a wave that's happening, because it's renewable energy that we're going to live on in the future. This is a change that's happening all over the world, and we just have to make sure that change is going as fast as possible. The reason why nuclear power is selfish towards future generations is exactly what we're talking about today: that's all that waste you produce, and that we don't know how to solve it. We just make power for us sail today, and then we don't care about all the third we're adding again to next generations. It may have been an unparliamentary expression, President, but it was quite correct. It is important to take it into account, and it is also important to include it in this debate. I think we've had a big focus on our friends in the East on preventing accidents, but this is a country that we normally rain among our closest, and it's a facility that's proven to be so many wrongs. I hope this can turn into a cross-political commitment to get something done with this. And then in the Left, we're definitely going to do our job with the Liberals in government. The Liberal Democrats have always been at the party with the Left in this case, but we also need the government's help to push from the formal side. I hope we've brought everyone on the team to do something about the threat that's hanging over us here from the British Isles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1034	The President would point out that it was right that the representative Skei Grande said: it was an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1037	I take with me from this debate an absolute consensus from all the parties of the Great Britain that we should be clear and clear in this area, that we should be clear to the British, regardless of the government, on our demand for transparency and on the swiftest possible closure of any activity in the United Kingdom that we consider dangerous. I'm also pleased with the rose of the Straw liver who came from Trine Skei Grande. We're going to pass it on. I fully agree that it is nice to have reports that it is possible to read to us ordinary mortals as well, and that we do not have to have a very hard job to read them to us in order to understand what is there. So it's really positive. So Nikolai Astrup asked questions that I can't answer right now. I promise to come back with an answer to it in written form or in any other way. Of course, I will also address these issues with the British responsible, both Conservative, Liberal and Labour Party in the future and with the EU. Several of the speakers — it started with Solvik-Olsen, and a number of others — have reflected on the future of the international nuclear industry. There, I think we have to realize that no matter if Norway won't build nuclear power, there's a lot of talk that we're going to have more nuclear plants in the world in the years to come. The more important is broad international agreement on their control regimes, ensuring that they can be springboards to create nuclear weapons or serve as a basis for terrorism, but of course also a maximum level of security at installations. Whatever one should believe about Iran's intentions, the debate is also about this, namely that Iran, as one of many countries, wants to develop the nuclear industry. This is a country with a much shorter history as a high-tech nation than, for example, one. Great Britain. Finally, since more people have been involved in this accident in Hungary, let me say that we have been in contact today with the Hungarian authorities and also with the EU Emergency Response Organisation. Three things were offered from the Norwegian side: One is that if we have state knowledge or expertise in some of our appliances that might be of interest to them, we obviously have to do what we can to make it available. The second is: Norwegian Hydro, which is one of the world's largest aluminium actors, has not had a similar accident at its facilities in Brazil, but they have had an accident in Brazil, albeit of a different nature and without death. It's a big organization with a lot of knowledge in this area. We are prepared to make both medical and technological expertise available to the Hungarians, and we have notified this to both the EU and Hungary. The last thing is that when we deal in November with the negotiations on the Norwegian EEA contribution to Hungary, which is 1.2 billion. kr over a five-year period – there is no small amount of money – the issue of chemical management and good supervision and good regulation in this area will be one of the themes we are discussing with Hungary about being a relevant area of cooperation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1054	Case No. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1060	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1079	In Case No: 2–4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-10-11.ana.ud306e1176	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
