ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e82	The representatives Sverre Myrli, Bård Hoksrud, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from Hallgeir H. Langeland and Lars Myraune on leave from 30 November to 2 December – both to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris. by the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide from 30 November until further notice. from the Workers' Group on the study leave of the representative Anna Ljunggren from 30 November to 15 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Nordic counties: Knut Petter Torgersen For Oslo: Afshan Rafiq For Rogaland County: Letting Children Change For the North Trondelag County: Elin Rodum Agdestein
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e152	Afshan Rafiq, Lasse Kinden Endresen and Elin Rodum Agdestein are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e160	The representative of Mr Gullvåg has asked for the floor to withdraw a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e163	As a result of the suggestion that our proposal to prevent the possibility for municipal politicians to take undue advantage of their own decisions in a local housing market may affect an ongoing investigation, I will, on behalf of Sonja Mandt, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, draw this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e168	The notification by the representative of Mr Gullvåg that that proposal for a representative has now been withdrawn is taken into account. The representative, Mr Gullvåg, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e173	I will, on behalf of Sonja Mandt, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, propose to review changes in the law on housing construction laws or other laws to prevent insider dealing and speculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e178	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative – there is a lot of evidence that the representative, Höie, does not want to make a proposal for a representative. Then we will move on to the representative, Mr Solvency Horne, who will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e184	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Act No 24 February 1995. 12 on public holidays and public holidays – complete the opening hours, including the abolition of the so-called Brustad-bua.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e189	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e192	I am pleased to present a proposal from the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and myself on the distortion of public resources in the start-up phase for start-up companies with high growth potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e197	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e211	The first speaker is the rapporteur on the matter, Hans Olav Syversen. No discussion has been proposed, which means that the Syvers and other speakers have a speaking time of up to 30 minutes, but the President assumes that it does not necessarily have to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e216	The representative shall consider that request. Today, we have a position from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that is at the Riksrevision's investigation into police action against organised crime. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to highlight the police and prosecution authority’s efforts against organised crime, how the police deal with organised crime, and how priority has been given to the fight against organised crime. Coordination in the police and between police and criminal services has also been assessed in the National Audit Office, further on how international police and prosecution cooperation is exploited, and how ICT tools and police methods are used by the police to combat organised crime. It is a broadly unanimous attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and I think that is a good idea, not least because there are also some recommendations made by the Committee. I'll come back to that. I have mentioned the purpose of the study, and the Riksrevision has drawn up in its conclusions a number of points which it considers unsatisfactory in the efforts made by the police and the prosecution authority in the fight against organised crime. As pointed out by the National Audit Office, there is a lack of a comprehensive and overall strategy for the fight against organised crime. It is also pointed out that the department’s governance dialogue with the police is deficient, and the Riksrevision believes it is unfortunate that there are no more targets and results for police action in this area. Furthermore, the Riksrevision states that there are significant weaknesses in the coordination and exchange of information between police departments and internationally. The National Audit Office also considers that police ICT systems have significant shortcomings and do not contribute to the effective fight against crime. Against this background, the Committee decided to have an open hearing relating to the findings of the Riksrevision. Through the consultation, I would like to say that the Committee has been given a very good light on the work done by a number of different bodies. I might also say that the committee was given some up-to-date information about the status that this work now has. For me, it was a very instructive and very useful hearing. Let me first say that at least it is mine, but I also believe the majority of the committee's opinion that since the Riksrevision's investigation there are several facts that are on the right track, and that there has been a clearly positive development in the work aimed at this serious crime type, which the Storting has repeatedly pointed out to the importance of working effectively against. I would first like to dwell on the question of whether we should have an overall overall national strategy to combat organised crime. In the hearing, we were probably given various examples of its side effects, and perhaps one should think that the different types of crime represented in this heading of organised crime must be combated with more specific strategies individually. We are pleased in a joint committee that the Minister of Justice in the announced news of the issue is also going to address this particular issue. It is important, because it also has to do with what objectives the Minister of Justice will set for his underlying bodies in this form of crime prevention. Several in the hearing indicated that there may be too many objectives and too many parameters. We have probably recommended that in the reform of results, which it is now working on, it will not be the Storting against perhaps getting a little more together on some more clear and specific targets and parameters for police work. Then there is a great deal of consensus about how important it is to cooperate across the police districts. After all, we got a very good description from the police officers who were in the hearing, of how such cooperation can work effectively, and what it takes to make it work effectively. This new coordinating body that has been set up, I think, has worked positively. The fact that we have received some central appropriations and the strengthening of Kripos is positive to combat this type of crime across the police districts. We also make an overall recommendation to ask the Ministry to consider whether there are still key incentives that can be given to further strengthen cooperation and that the economy should not be crucial to whether or not cooperation takes place. So some additional points until the overall committee assumes will be an improvement in the fight against organised crime: there are many who have pointed out that the cost of interpretation is an increasing problem, a burden on the individual police districts and agencies. It is therefore an overall committee that asks the Council of State to assess how the expenditure on the interpretation service can be organised and financed in the future. It is also an overall committee which points to the importance of cooperation with other bodies. These may be instances of the tax and customs debt. And then we don't come from the fact that ICT became a central element in the hearing. We were well informed during the hearing, at least fairly clearly and quite quickly afterwards, that we are facing a couple of billions of investment needs in order for the police to have an up-to-date ICT platform. It is an overall committee that points out and underlines that new ICT solutions are ‘a critical point for both police action against crime in general and in relation to organised crime in particular’. Then comes something that I have to ask the Council of State to listen specifically to: ‘The Committee finds it difficult to see that it is possible to solve the challenges in this area solely by redeploying operational resources in the police without the need to give way to other police priority objectives.’ It is a clear budgetary challenge, which a whole committee is taking seriously. Then there were more in the hearing, including the national lawyer, who addressed the need for the protection of witnesses and police informants. This is not our primary field of action, but the Committee expects to see a wide-ranging review from the government in the context of the work of the Committee on Methodological Control. With such clear messages that today's situation is unsustainable, not least in the fight against organised crime with regard to the status of protection of witnesses and police informants, I am convinced that the Minister of Justice is taking this most seriously. There is a notification of a rise in the fight against cross-border organised serious crime. I think I can safely say that both this committee and certainly the technical committee are responding to this important communication with great interest. This is a field where we must be leading was and not come too much on backlog. Then we put the country open to criminal gangs and others who exploit our resources and our security in a way we don't want. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e255	Let me first join the statements made by the rapporteur and, in addition, commend the rapporteur, who has contributed to an almost unanimous vote. I would also like to say, like the rapporteur, that the hearing held by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs was very informative. We also raised questions, input and proposals that point forward towards the announcement made by the Minister of Justice, which, of course, will not be discussed, but will go to the Scientific Committee – the Justice Committee. So I want to say a little bit about organized crime, which basically consists of international actors, international, mafia-like networks. Activities include everything from the organisation of begging to trafficking, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, trafficking — many other types of crime may be affected. Mobile criminals are characterized by their good organization, and the backers are rarely or never taken. What we also learned in the hearing was that criminal networks are largely multidisciplinary, which is a little funny, correct. In other words, they operate in very many fields at the same time and are in areas that pay off at any time — drugs one day, trafficking the next, and then trafficking in human beings. So they're professional and they change from day to day. On 10 October, which was the day before the hearing, TV 2 reported a case from Bergen where drug trafficking was carried out by asylum seekers from West Africa. The money was brought out of the country by Nigerian prostitutes. It goes without saying that this calls for police cooperation and new demands for cooperation between them to deal with organised crime – the STOP police force, dealing with prostitution and trafficking in human beings, foreign agencies, etc. etc. It is also the case that international criminal networks exhibit extreme brutality and cynicism. In 2006 I visited the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) in Vienna with the then Foreign Affairs Committee. We got information about forced prostitution and slave labor. The victims are lured or threatened to the hell they're in, or they're simply kidnapped and forced to slave on plantations or to be sex slaves in Western Europe. When the prostitute girls can no longer be used as sex slaves, they are used for organ donation. Children are kidnapped and sold for the same purpose. Their organs shall be used for transplantation. So these are the same bands that operate in Norway with a slightly different type of crime. It goes without saying that this makes new demands for coordination of police action. This has also been the purpose of the Riksrevision investigation. The extent to which police action is based on comprehensive and targeted governance and follow-up has also been assessed. During the hearing, the National Advocate General Tor-Aksel Busch said that it is not easy to find an overall strategy that is appropriate for as different crime areas as organised profit crime, trafficking in human beings and drug crimes. It will be exciting to see what will be included in the notification on combating cross-border serious crime notified by the Council of State. It's going to be an important big-time message coming to Stortinget. The Committee of Inquiry states in its Opinion that, through the examination of such a communication, the Storting will be informed in more detail and in more detail of the issues raised in the report of the National Audit Office, the hearing of the Committee and the Committee's observations. Let me once again add that the technical committee is, of course, the body that is going to deal with these proposals. Moreover, in many of the areas in which the Riksrevision makes critical comments, as the rapporteur emphasised, positive developments have taken place. The Minister of Justice himself said in his speech during the hearing that the strengthening of international cooperation has been important to the government. Norwegian prosecution authorities are becoming increasingly important in exploiting the opportunities provided by Eurojust cooperation. Cooperation with Europol is also good. The so-called Prüm cooperation in the EU also provides Norwegian police authorities with access to information on DNA, fingerprints and vehicle registers in all EU Member States. The Agreement also provides for enhanced police cooperation in other areas. The political environment in Norway today discusses the issue of data retention legislation, which is both to protect privacy and to ensure that we have the necessary tools in the fight against international organised crime. Then perhaps it should be added that organized criminals themselves are already online. The criminal world has become digital. Electronic communications provide organised criminal new areas of action and new opportunities. And by the way, where is the privacy of children who are exposed to pedophilia or sold as slaves online? What's our answer to that? The National Auditor's report also says: ‘The fight against organised crime requires the use of non-traditional investigation methods.’ It further questions whether such methods are sufficiently exploited. So finally, a few of the topics that were addressed specifically by several hearing bodies. One is the need for an amended legislation or perhaps a law to protect informants with sensitive information. This was also said by the rapporteur-general. It's e.g. It is difficult to get prostitutes to reflect — that is, those who have extended their residence permits — to silence their interns and backers. The family representations can be entirely fateful, but without their diploma, the results can be missing, and we can see that. Another matter that was raised was the cost of interpretation, which is a burden for the individual police district or special agency. This may hamper the investigation and the Committee considers that the Ministry of Justice should carefully consider how the costs of the interpreter service can be organised and financed. The last matter I want to mention, which was raised during the hearing, is the question of reinforced criminal rules for the preparation of organised crime. We're not giving any answer to this. Some of the questions will be addressed in the big news, and there is the big debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e290	Let me first thank the rapporteur for a good piece of work and good coordination in the Committee's work. I would also like to make it clear that I share in all respects the views expressed by the rapporteur and the representative of Nybakk. Organized crime is nothing new. However, the way crime is organized today is something different from what we know from history. The fact that more people are organizing to do business crime or drug crime is neither news nor any big surprise. In the realms of drug offenders, well-organised networks have been crucial for many decades to ensure adequate benefits at all levels from the lucrative economic trade in the powder of death. However, the system strategy is further developed and is often used to ensure quality, profit and control in more and more fields. It is also, as the representative Nybakk had in mind, an ever-increasing combination of different criminal areas. The main challenge of organised crime is, of course, that it is well-organised in its form, its mobility and not least its many links. When the police roll up a large gang involved in human trafficking, drug trafficking, drug trafficking or organised profit crime, most of the time foot soldiers are taken. The backmen often sit safely. It's claimed that taking the foot soldiers doesn't help anything in particular, because they're so easy to replace. Others claim that the same is true for the backers, because the profitability is so high and the risk is so low that new ones come into place as soon as someone disappears. However, the fight against organised crime is one of the most important struggles of a civilised society fighting. The option to win the match does not exist. Therefore, it is essential that we as a society enable the police to be effective in their fight against organised crime, both through national measures and through international cooperation. It was therefore important that the National Audit Office carried out an investigation into police action against organised crime. It turned out to be particularly important because the Riksrevision revealed a number of areas where there was significant potential for improvement. It is worth noting that the Riksrevision believes the governance dialogue from the Department of Police Directorate and further to the police districts is deficient. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure that the flow of information is good and quality assured, so that there is no doubt about the main priorities of the Council of State. There is also a remarkable lack of coordination between police districts. Fortunately, the open hearing showed that there are signs of improvement and that several police districts have merged on different projects to strengthen the joint effort against organised crime. Without calling for fewer police districts, it is important that Norway should appear as a single police area, so that police districts as administrative units do not limit the police’s ability to fight crime. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to ensure this overall objective. One of the definitely most critical points of the Riksrevision report was the lack of functionality of the ICT systems of the police. It was also clearly clarified from almost everyone who was heard in the hearing that ICT systems had to be improved. It is really alarming that the ICT systems in the police are so poor that the police director, in open consultation, said that the ICT systems are not suitable for combating crime today. It's a very serious signal. Police officers also stated that they spent a lot of human resources on ICT, which should otherwise have been used to combat crime. It is critical that the Ministry of Justice has not prioritised upgrading ICT systems, and that the Directorate of Police has now had to take responsibility for an upgrade itself, by taking money from the police districts to start work on a pre-project on the ICT side. Clearly, an overall commitment to ICT in the police is the responsibility of the Council of State. Such a commitment will in the longer term release large resources for use in the fight against crime. I assume that the Council of State sees the value of the work that is now in progress, and I assume that this will be duly mentioned in the notification, so that it becomes clear how this will be carried out and financed in the future. The national audit has thus revealed a number of significant failures in the governance of police action against organised crime. While it became clear in the open hearing that a number of measures have already been implemented to improve the situation, it is symptomatic that all these initiatives are not managed or stimulated by the Minister of Justice but come as a result of the police districts’ own priorities. The Progress Party believes that it should be possible to find an intermediate solution where a central focus and clear governance signals are not at the expense of the flexibility of police districts. It is the responsibility of the Ministry to ensure adequate incentives and tools to ensure such coordination. It also appears that the interpreting service is one of several important elements in the fight against organised crime. Access to qualified interpreters is limited and costs are very high. It is pointed out from several that centrally funded interpreters will help to clarify organised crime. I look forward to the notification from the government of combating cross-border organised crime also addressing this problem. There is often a negative focus on debates on combating crime. Politicians, professionals and trade unions are fighting for the most degrading battle order to set their own agenda. That is why I will finally take this opportunity to pay tribute to all those who every day sacrifice themselves in the fight against crime, both organized and unorganized. Even though the fight may sometimes appear hopeless, it produces results. It is our common responsibility in this house to provide framework conditions that provide the police, prosecution authorities, courts and criminal services with continued motivation and willingness to work for a better and safer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e311	There is a broad consensus that the fight against organised crime should be given priority. This is SV happy for. Organized crime is about people trying to make crime a living, a profession, and it was just to be lacking that the Storting did not agree on this. It's today the day to draw some big lines and look a little bit backwards, because it's also a total pile that's today on the shoulders of the previous magnification. What do I mean by this? There are a few things we know about organized crime. One is that when we talk about organised crime, we often talk about the cross-border – that it extends across borders, and that it is international. Norway has been part of the Schengen cooperation for almost ten years. Ten years ago, the Stortinget agreed to a Schengen cooperation that gave us reduced border control and thus lowered the threshold for free flow of cellar lines. Of course, you could do that the same or not, but I don't like it. The risk of free flow of smelting lines was also some of the reasons why SV argued against Schengen. It is striking that the otherwise sensible people both in the press and in most other parties seem to overlook the obvious fact that the main effect of the Schengen Agreement was to remove the national border control with regard to persons. There are probably some good reasons to support Norwegian accession to the Schengen Agreement, but it is not particularly high worth trying to mitigate the negative effects of its own positions. Even worse, it's when people even insist that it has no negative effects. Today, we see some parties – I am thinking in particular of the Progress Party – that are almost shamelessly high and dark and are almost for the death penalty for organised criminal gangs from Eastern Europe, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, for the Schengen Agreement, which allows exactly the same criminals to enter freely. This is not related. Do not the parties that gave us Schengen, at the same time, have a responsibility for Norwegian membership of Schengen and therefore for the concrete consequences of the same membership? Can we stand here in Stortinget and say that there is no link between the increase in organised crime on the one hand and Schengen on the other? No, we can't. This is simply not related. The media acrobatics of some parties on this theme take place in the border country between crocodile tears and political opportunism. Then there's one thing we know about organized crime, and that's that it's an area that hasn't been the police's most priority in recent years. Yeah, well, why isn't it? The Riksrevision believes that this is simply because the area has not been within the radar of – and now I quote from the summary in the case – ‘the parameters to measure the police’s work’. What does this mean? Well, that means that if a police district wanted to be a successful police district, there were completely different things to focus on, because it wasn't organized crime they were measured on – it was completely different things. With this recognition, we are facing a major strategic issue: are we going to red tape the police even more by making organized crime into something we measure the police districts, on which they have to report, as they are controlled, and for which they are rewarded? Those who took part in the hearing were somewhat divided on this issue. On a general basis, it must be allowed to give the following heartache: today's rise is on the shoulders of Police Reform 2000, a quantitative public sector metering revolution that marked a turning point in the importance of measuring what cannot be measured, and where it was not important. This is a development that not only concerns the police. This reporting regime, this numbering board, this measurement hysteria, called New Public Management, goes like a plague on large parts of the public sector. We see it at the universities, we see it at the hospitals, we see it at the schools, and we see it in the police. It can be summarised as follows: What cannot be measured is not important. What cannot be measured is irrelevant. How do you measure, for example, the impact of preventive work? Not in the number of arrests or intrusions – rather the opposite. Today, an effective fight against crime has just become the number of arrests, etc., and not how many crimes we can prevent through early interventions, kindergartens, a good community school and operational child protection for the most vulnerable. We have to ask ourselves, are we measuring the right thing? And more importantly, can we ever measure everything right? We see the same thing in the health care system, where hospitals get paid according to the number of operations. So there's the number of operations, the number of repairs that need to be done, which is important, not how many diseases we've been able to prevent. We have to ask, is society on the right track when we do this? No, no, no. It's a goalyranni by that way of governing not only darkens the hearts and covers the eyes of those who are governed in this way, but because it can also be an effective way to kill local reason, the local freedom to use their own experience and judgment – what we can call organized crime politics or what can be called common sense in everyday speech. I would therefore like to conclude by referring to the quotations from Commissioner Truls Fyhn, who was involved in the hearings on this subject. He just underlined that, despite the lack of figures, he had never been in doubt that the fight against organized crime was a priority, not because it was linked to the figures – but rather, on the contrary, it was not his own target for this – but because he was told that it was important, from the Police Directorate and from the State Attorney. The size will have ample opportunity to discuss these issues further in the alerted announcement of cross-border organised serious crime. On this occasion, the question of how the police control, priority and receive their signals should also be addressed to a serious discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e347	It's good to hear that the Storting is so united about fighting organized crime. It is also, according to my concepts, very good that in the setting you have managed to collect as you have done, because one thing is how much you grant into the police's fight, another thing is legal warrants both for method and criminal sanctions. However, I believe that a crucial condition for maintaining the pressure on this type of crime – because it is necessary – is that it is also possible to bring together broad, broad solutions and a broad majority. I've done it before, but I want to give the Committee some credit for the work that was done in the hearing. In fact, I believe that this process, with the good help of both the case rapporteur, the chairman of the committee and all the fractions, has helped not only to identify the challenges facing us in combating serious, organised crime, but has also addressed the report of the National Audit Office and, in fact, has also addressed some of the issues raised by the National Audit Office. That's what I think is profitable. This applies, inter alia, to: whether the methodology used and opened by the Riksrevision – also reflected in the setting – is correct, good and useful in this work. I also believe that what the rapporteur had to say on the issue of the overall choice of strategy, whether it is correct and possible – as you would like to read the recommendations of the National Audit Office – is at least a good request to the government and the ministry when we now prepare the report on organised crime. According to my concepts, the methodology of the study may raise questions, and questions may also be raised by the available recommendations. However, I believe that the work done by the Committee in this matter is helping to raise awareness of the challenges involved and also to look at possible solutions. I'm going to take some of the challenges that I look like from the committee hearing, of which I had a lot of benefit. It came in a very timely manner towards the work that is now being done. After all, we are in the final round regarding the staging message, which I hope will be submitted before Christmas. The hearing gave us, in other words, very useful input. Firstly, when it comes to policy choices, it is quite clear that the actors heard at the hearing did not necessarily share the Riksrevision's view of having a comprehensive strategy that would cover this crime area as almost a whole area. I think it is very important what the Committee says on page 12 of the vote, that we should address a discussion of the strategy options for combating organised crime, and – as I also understand the case rapporteur – that we should just clarify the question of whether it is right to have a strategy, I was saying, for each type of crime, and whether it is difficult to establish such an overall strategy as the Riksrevision in that way. I also believe that the debate raised in the Riksrevision's criticism of the issue of parameters is very important. That is one of the reasons why we have initiated the reform of results. And like I said in the hearing, and I'd like to repeat it here: I don't think that's necessarily how we can read the Riksrevision, that it'll be right now to have even more measurement parameters. I am more aware of what I understand that the Committee too largely concludes that there is perhaps a need to look at the possibilities for better coordination, fewer measurement parameters, which actually reflect some of the efforts and results that you want to achieve, as was the case with the representative Kinden Endresen, to the extent that he was also involved in his contribution, in particular. the issue of prevention. I would also like to point out that one of the major challenges we have seen is the issue of coordination of action. We have seen weaknesses – where I agree with the Riksrevision – in coordination between police districts, and that is why the coordinating body is established in the way it has been done. I take with me the signals that the Committee gives on precisely this coordinating body, including on the economic framework. So I would also say that a lot of the work that's now done gives us results. I am pleased that the committee sees it, because perhaps the most stimulating thing in this work is that we see that it is possible to achieve better results, and that continued change, continued efforts will help to bring this crime further down. Only in today's evening post does it show that the intervention force that the government initiated last year, where more money was allocated, more jobs, among others. to the riot police, Kripos and central police districts, deliver significant results. In the evening post today it is written about the police's efforts, which is now approaching 1,500 arrested people in checks on the roads this year. You are generally not attacked to drive too fast, but you are apprehended because you own drugs, because you own stolen goods. And we see how the U.S. police are now being used as an effort force where it's needed, for example. in the South these days, which I believe is a very important step in meeting this much more operationally than what has been done in the past. I also point out – I guess it’s also true in today’s Evening Post – that part of organized crime is happening on the Internet, and it’s happening using new technology. The abuse images that Kripos is now working on, and where many perpetrators have been identified — and Norway is in the forefront — are also a very important part of organised crime, which requires a whole new tool. I take with me the views and requests of the Committee on the question of interpretation, not only the financing issue, but also the question of organisation. In particular, I think the latter is important. If you might think of another type of funding, it is also important to look at how this is organised, not just within the police, but – I think – towards other types of public enterprise. I think that might be an exciting thing to look at, as we'll do. With regard to the question of the methods – several of them have been involved, the rapporteur was at the point of view of the Methodological Audit Committee – I agree that this is something that should be given priority. It's absolutely crucial. One methodology is that of the ability to obtain traffic data. Several of the stakeholders we heard during the consultation, stressing that without the ability to obtain traffic data, as is the case in the EU Data Storage Directive, much of the fight against this type of crime will be significantly hampered. And it's known that we're working on this code. Whether you implement the Data Storage Directive or one, today we have the opportunity to obtain data. For the future, it will also be imperative to have new rules around this, as we know that many of the data are lost, especially because of the deletion rules that now apply to IP addresses. This is a very important part of the methodology. Then, in the follow-up to this, I would say that in the case of the State Attorney and, to the extent, the general police's request for better protection of witnesses and police informants, it is something that the government has been working on. The rapporteur said that we should at least take this into account in the follow-up to the setting of the Methodological Audit Committee, but we will try to get to the Storing faster with this. And without going too much in detail about the big-time announcement of organised crime: we will already discuss this issue there and point to some possible ways forward that will provide witnesses and police informants with better protection than they have today, to meet the need that I believe is fully understandable, and that the national lawyer drew out. Finally, I would also like to point out that in the next year's budget we have proposed a strengthening of the police operating framework. What's good with this debate, with the attitude and with the hearing we had in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, is that we also focus on how we organize ourselves, no matter how much money you donate. I think that's useful and necessary for any public enterprise. On the issue of the development of police ICT systems, one of the reasons why we chose to increase police budgets significantly next year is to give room to drive forward the ICT project in the police. But we are totally dependent on the police directorate and the police's data and material service to complete their pre-project, in order to be able to move on and see how large the funds must be in order to be able to take the big grip on ICT. This will be given top priority by the Ministry in terms of budgetary developments in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e377	The matter we have to deal with today, and then I think about the nature of organized crime, is of course very serious. The size has on several occasions underlined the need for the police to deal with organised crime, as defined here, in a thorough and thorough manner. So this has been discussed on many occasions. I would like to say that the initiative taken by the Riksrevision and the work done by the Riksrevision, a very thorough, useful and good work, have provided the basis for a review in the Norwegian Grand Prix – both in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, here today and in our relationship with the Council of State – in a way that is very fruitful and good. The whole debate here bears the mark of a very large consensus on all the main issues, including that post that we just heard the Council of State hold. I would like to refer to the representative of Syversen in a very good way in his speech when he presented the overall position of the Committee in virtually all areas, and to the posts of the representative Nybakk, which are comprehensive for my main view. In addition to this, I will just give a few thoughts on two or three questions, which I would like to highlight from my point of view. In this discussion and in the hearing, there is a problem that I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State and other police forces and that needs to be emphasised. It is that we need to get away from the situation that police districts are creating a problem for dealing with the development of crime in Norway. What may be of bureaucratic obstacles in this regard must be removed. We agree on that. But I also want to say that I think this is a bit on the way – at least sometimes, to take the necessary reservations – is about mentalities in the systems. This needs to be changed in a proper and constructive way. I expect the Council of State to be aware of this issue, of the mentality of the system, in not crossing the police borders if you don't have to – to put it that way – and, in addition, other police officers hear this, because that's an important prerequisite. It will not help with reorganization or money if this mentality is not handled properly. Economic considerations of narrow reasons – which, in some contexts, can be called – and local performance must not play a role in the fight against organised crime. So it has been said from several other teams, but I also express it, that we are responding to the government's message regarding the management of interpreting services and ICT. It has become very clear in this case that there are two specific problem areas. Of course, I have all sorts of respect for the budgetary challenges of the Council of State in this area, but it is nevertheless the case that these two areas are so clearly pointing out that it is absolutely necessary that we look at them in detail. I also agree with what the Council of State said. It is not meant to be a challenge or provocation in any way, but it has to be emphasised from the Parliament's pulpit what has been said by many police officers in the hearing, namely that without having to store the necessary traffic data in ICT and telephony, we will have serious problems in the future – i.e. the discussion on the Data Storage Directive. It goes right into this. As I said, it is not meant to be some kind of challenge in this debate, but it is necessary to underline it because it was said so very clearly and thoroughly from several of those who were in the open hearing. Finally, there is an overall view on this very serious question. This is an example of a report from the National Audit Office and a management here in Stortinget, which I believe has come out very positively. We welcome the Government's communication and the further discussion in the extension of the work of the Monitoring Committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e398	I am not going to accept Mr Kolberg's invitation to discuss the Data Storage Directive. The size gets other opportunities to do that, although of course it could be fun to fill some of the time today with that theme. On the other hand, I would like to comment on a few other points. Initially, I find it interesting to hear the SV representative’s very critical contributions to the current policy. Here, it is obvious that there must be some challenges in relation to cooperation in-house on government law and order policy. So there we just get to express our sympathy. As the rapporteur said, it was a very informative hearing on this matter. The National Audit Office’s report showed significant shortcomings in the work on organised crime. Of course, some of this may be due to the generally low priority the government has of the police, but it's not that it's just the red-green parties that here haven't done their job. Looking at ICT systems, there has been a problem in the police at least back to the early 2000s. Very well known, then, were others who were in government position. At the hearing, it was also found that interpretation has become a growing problem. It is, of course, a problem that is accelerating as there is a government that is leading a loose immigration policy. I felt after the hearing that I wanted to ask some questions to the Council of State in this area. I therefore sent in a written question, which got no. 304. In this I point out that in the hearing it was informed by representatives from Rogaland police district that 80 pst. by those who were under investigation or placed in custody were non-residents. The leadership of other police districts pointed to similar trends, that 50–60 pst. by those who were convicted were foreigners. The police pointed out the challenges this poses for the investigation, including: with regard to interpretative services. On my question, I also asked for a statement on the monitoring of this development and also on the views of the Council of State on how to solve the challenges. I am not very impressed with the surveys carried out on foreigners and crime in Norway, at least not the ones that can be presented in the answer I received. Nor am I very impressed by the ability to get out the asylum seekers or immigrants who are not supposed to be here, even though something has been done recently – something, with a lot of press round. Then it might seem like you're doing more than you're de facto doing. In his reply to me, the Council of State boasted of the increase in the police budgets. I have two comments to make. First of all, the increases you've made are really good, but it may not be enough. Secondly, we may have assigned the police a number of tasks that they should not have, including: to hunt for those buying services from prostitutes. It is also not a debate we can re-examine. Finally, I think it is nice to have a searchlight put on the interpreter service. At the same time, however, it must be mentioned that it is obvious that immigration and asylum policies are leading to some of the organised crime that arises in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e415	The position we have to deal with, where all parties have had the opportunity to submit their comments, does not include asylum policy, nor prostitution, nor Schengen cooperation, where there is broad consensus in this Chamber, nor New Public Management, nor what else should be in mind in the matter. I want to express an opinion on two issues covered by the setting. One is the cause of any lack of cooperation between police districts. I would like to say to the Council of State that it may well be that the number of police districts needs to be adjusted gradually. It won't stand in the right way, but I don't think that's where the main problem lies when it comes to non-cooperation. Because I fully agree with Mr Kolberg that this is a mental problem. We have not been able to record rules that prevent cross-police cooperation. Some people do it very well -- a growing number fortunately -- others don't do it very well. So that's the mentality and the ability to take advantage of the opportunities that exist, that I think is the main problem. It is good that there is access to funds that can help to cover the additional costs of the type of over-the-counter cooperation, which will in particular report in the event of serious organised crime, but in itself I do not believe that this will trigger cooperation. I think it is important to know that it is there, and everyone who was in the hearing expressed it – including police organisations. But the important thing — once again back to my main point — is that the mentality that needs to be developed in the area of organised crime is that there is no obstacle to persecution across the districts. So to the point that most of the Progress Party was in the setting. I don't think such cooperation should be organised and managed as a kind of command from the central team. The problem must be solved by the organised crime that arises, and it arises in the police districts. It does not occur in any central directorates. They can make guidelines and what it may be for the investigation, but it occurs on the grassroots. Then it must be persecuted from there, across borders. So I don't see the need for more central guidelines in this area. Finally, there is no need to raise a debate on the EU Data Storage Directive, but at least the hearing fully documented is that the police need access to traffic data and that it must not be determined by private commercial interests. But police access also needs to be regulated, based on privacy considerations. It is a question that we must be able to have an opinion on, regardless of the EU directives and their evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e444	Nor is there a proposal for a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e447	Our long-term cooperation with Russia on nuclear safety is an important part of the total cooperation we have bilaterally with Russia. And let me add: it's in Norwegian interest to have a close cooperation with Russia in this particular area. It's important that we help clean up nuclear pollution in our neighbourhoods. The new threat images tell us that the radioactive waste in North-West Russia can easily be transformed into so-called ‘dirty bombs’ if it gets in the hands of terrorists or other criminals; in fact, it is so that the non-proliferation regime perceives the Kola Peninsula as the area in the world where nuclear and fissile material represents the greatest threat to security and the environment. Let me add that this material not only represents a risk to health and the environment – it does, of course, too – but poorly secured fissile material is a threat from a safety and non-proliferation perspective. We are discussing today the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the National Audit Office's investigation into nuclear safety cooperation with Russia. But it's not more than six months since the Stortinget had up the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee's position on Meldning. St. 11 for 2009–2010, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs went through the same subject in depth, and the conclusion was that it is important to further develop and strengthen security and preparedness cooperation with Russia. This setting for Stortinget also came after this document was submitted by the Riksrevision. In the period 1995–2009, the Stortinget granted a sum of SEK 1.4 billion. kr to this project. The National Audit Office’s study shows that measures financed by Norwegian funds are largely implemented as planned, but some important unsolved tasks remain. These include: on the capacity for long-term storage and management of other hazardous waste. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs characterises in Meld. St. 11 actions as a ‘success history completed in a period of major changes in Russia’, and further: ‘The ambitions for cooperation with Russia must therefore be realistic and long-term in any area of cooperation in relation to the framework conditions’.» In particular, the Control and Constitutional Committee has noted that challenges remain such as the removal of the spent fuel and the radioactive waste from the old military base in Andreyev Bay, which could lead to an increased risk of radioactive contamination. The Committee is pleased that the issue is being followed up by the Norwegian-Russian Atomic Energy Commission. It is also important that the planned common tokens are not limited to previously investigated areas but cover all important sources of radioactive contamination. We also record that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take the National Audit Office's observations into account in its work, by increasing the quality of nuclear safety cooperation with Russia. Back to the Foreign and Defence Committee. In June, the Committee unanimously stated that the Norwegian contribution beyond 2012 must be more and more linked to the cooperation of authorities and cooperation in environmental monitoring and preparedness, while Norwegian efforts must be seen in an international perspective and preferably coordinated with the priorities of other cooperation countries. Let me add that I am pleased with the broad international commitment that we see today to solve cost-intensive nuclear challenges in North-West Russia. And as it also says in the setting, at the Washington Summit this year on nuclear safety, a declaration was adopted to secure all sensitive nuclear material in four years. North-West Russia was also mentioned. The final document of the NPT Supervisory Conference in May of this year, i.e. the Non-Proliferation Agreement, is also worth including. Ever since the end of the Cold War, the world community has cooperated with Russia and other post-Soviet states to secure and remove material from chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. The two US senators Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar have done a great job both in North-West Russia, and in securing the chemical weapons in Russia, and they have been nominated at the Nobel Peace Prize for their work for years in a row. The Riksrevisor, Jørgen Kosmo, said in his press release when Document 3:9 for 2009–2010 was presented: «Accidents and pollution in this field will have a serious impact on the health and safety, environment and industrial interests of the population in Norway.» I can agree to that. This is precisely why it is important that work continues, even though — and this is clear from the Riksrevision report — the framework conditions are sometimes demanding and time consuming.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e483	Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, significant concentrations of civilian as well as military nuclear installations and radioactive sources have been detected in North-West Russia. This poses a risk of radioactive contamination also in Norway in the event of accidents. But already in Soviet times, this threat was noted on the Norwegian side. Cooperation was started in 1988 when an environmental agreement was signed and a Norwegian-Soviet Environment Commission was established. This cooperation was renewed and continued between Norway and Russia in 1992 and further strengthened in 1998 with a cooperation agreement on nuclear safety. From 1995 to 2009, the Norwegian authorities contributed about 1.5 billion. kr to the nuclear safety work in North-West Russia. The aim of this work has been to help reduce the risk of accidents and pollution from the nuclear installations in this area, which lie almost entirely within our neighbourhood. I myself have had the opportunity to visit most of the projects that Norway has contributed to. Some of the projects I have even visited several times. At my discretion, the warehouse with spent nuclear fuel in Andreyev Bay was completely irresponsible. Norwegian contributions have probably helped the situation somewhat, but there is still a long way to go before the situation there is satisfactory. I have also had the pleasure of visiting the Norwegian-funded plant outside Murmansk, which was scheduled to treat low-radioactive waste. The improvement of the safety of Kola nuclear power plants must be said to have been a project in which Norwegian efforts have been of great importance, although some claim that it has only helped to extend the lifetime of the nuclear power plant. This may be true, but it is also possible, or rather very likely, that the Russians had extended the life of the power plant without any improvement in safety. Norway has contributed to, inter alia: Emergency power to this facility to ensure reactor cooling in crisis situations, and we have also contributed to the construction of a fire and rescue station at the power plant. I have also had the pleasure of visiting the world's largest shipyard, Severodvinsk outside Arkhangelsk, and seen the dismantling of nuclear submarines funded with Norwegian kroner and US dollars. The National Audit Office has now carried out a study aimed at assessing the efforts of the Norwegian and Russian authorities to protect the population and the environment against radiation and pollution. The studies have been carried out as a parallel audit with the Russian National Audit Office. I note that the Riksrevision also points out that there are still some challenges, including: as regards future storage of radioactive waste. It is also worth noting that there is still a significant risk of corruption in Russia, and it is important that those working on these projects are aware of this. The National Audit Office also asks questions about the established Norwegian-Russian cooperation bodies and the practice of the bilateral agreements in a manner that is satisfactory in meeting the monitoring and warning challenges facing them. It is also a challenge for environmental monitoring cooperation that the Norwegian authorities concerned have not had access to any of the main areas and facilities on the Russian side in order to carry out joint environmental studies. The National Audit Office’s study also shows that specific environmental monitoring measures have been implemented to a limited extent, including: well-known radioactive sources have been monitored to a small extent. We also agree with the Riksrevision's assessment that it is important that the planned common tokens are not limited only to previously investigated areas but include all sources of radioactive contamination. Finally, I would like to stress the need to have very strict control over the use of funds for the various projects, to follow them closely and to pay attention to the risk of double funding of projects and to try to avoid this. I therefore assume that this is closely followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e506	With such a thorough adjustment and so much agreement, it is not a big deal for me to address. I see the Committee's assessment of the Riksrevision report as a confirmation that there is a cross-political consensus on the main lines of Norwegian cooperation with Russia in this very important area. I have noted with satisfaction the unanimous support of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Affairs of 9 June 2010 on cooperation with Russia on nuclear activities and the environment in the North, which says that nuclear safety cooperation with Russia is essentially a success story where Norwegian efforts have helped to reduce the risk of nuclear accidents and radioactive pollution in our neighbourhoods. I just want to stress that for the government it is a strength that we have this consensus to build on in our future negotiations with Russia, and also in the international work to bring about this kind of clean-up work. I have noticed that the Committee emphasises that cooperation has contributed to a safer world, and that it is an important component in ensuring sensitive radioactive material, so that it cannot be used, among other things. to criminal activities and acts of terrorism. We are pleased that there is increasing Russian self-sufficiency in this area. It's been a premise all along. The government assumes that Russia has the primary responsibility for the challenges of further work on nuclear safety, as the Committee also points out. Then there is still a significant risk of radioactive contamination from sources in North-West Russia. The work on these challenges will therefore continue both in the context of international cooperation and in our dialogue with Russian authorities. We are pleased that the Riksrevision has not shown any financial maladministration in the project cooperation. It is important to ensure the most effective use of the funds allocated by Stortinget. There are significant resources and continuous efforts are being made both to find solutions to administrative challenges and to improve the procedures for quality control of projects. The follow-up now agreed between the Norwegian and Russian national audits will be a valuable contribution to this. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Norwegian radiation protection authorities for the efforts they have made over many years. The cooperation on nuclear safety must be based on long-term sustainability and the further work will follow the direction specified in the Report. St. 11 for 2009-2010 and the Riksrevision report and the Committee's opinions. I can confirm to the representative Nybakk that we take with us the recordings that have come from the Riksrevision and also the various opinions of the Committee. Let me mention one thing there. Comments from the Progress Party refer to the uncertainty surrounding the Kola nuclear power plant, and there have also been allegations in various articles earlier in the social debate that Norwegian aid, on the contrary, contributes to the extension of the life of the oldest reactors by the Russian authorities. It's assessments we're going to take seriously. From the Norwegian side, we are of the opinion that since 2003 we have financed safety measures at the power plant which cannot be linked to the extension of the life of the reactor. It has, among other things, training measures, focusing on preparedness, safety and training, in order to reduce in the long term the risk of accidents at power plants and the consequences of any radioactive contamination. The number of incidents recorded at Kola nuclear power plants has been reduced in recent years and there can be no doubt that Norwegian efforts have contributed to this positive development. Norwegian-funded measures are aimed at securing and managing the legacy of the Cold War. Recent challenges are not supported. The Russian economy has been developing positively since the 1990s, and it is therefore reasonable that we point out that Russia needs to take an increasing share of the responsibility for the costs. At the same time, there is an increasing awareness among Russian authorities of the danger posed by these legacys and an explicit willingness to address them. This is why the country is now contributing more to nuclear safety cooperation itself, in line with our wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e530	The report of the National Audit Office on page 13 includes: read the following: ‘The Court of Auditors study shows that, to date, there has been no common practice for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Project Leaders to carry out systematic analyses and to prepare countermeasures aimed at preventing and detecting mishaps and corruption on the Russian side in the context of nuclear safety cooperation.’ Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs changed this practice after the report became known?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e540	In addition to considering the Riksrevision report as a good review of this cooperation, we can also conclude that cooperation is of high quality. So we've noticed exactly what the representative here, Mr. Vaksdal, points out. That's something we want to take with us, and that we've started to work to improve, with the aim of being able to live up to good control and review the way the Russians follow up on their part of the cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e545	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e548	As many have experienced, cooperation with Russia in the north has been a success story that has been going on since the early 1990s. It's a pleasure. I think we should stress that – that is not stressed enough. The background to the establishment of this cooperation is the extensive activity of the Cold War, both civil and military, which is the reason why significant amounts of radioactive waste and nuclear material are unwarrantedly stored in our neighbouring area. This is where it comes from -- I think it's also important to underline -- the world's largest concentration of nuclear installations, spent fuels and nuclear reactors, some in sophisticated and out-of-the-box nuclear submarines. Of the nuclear installations in our neighbourhoods, Russian nuclear power stations are a major danger of radioactive contamination and health damage in Norway. We all realize, if there is a serious accident at one of these power plants or at other installations, what significance this will have for our northern regions, both to land and to water. As a result, nuclear preparedness and clean-up measures in the northern regions are very important for the protection of the population, the environment and other important societal interests against radioactive pollution. Over time, Norwegian efforts have concentrated around two main objectives. One is to help reduce the risk of serious accidents and radioactive contamination. The other is to help prevent radioactive and fissile material from drifting away. Norwegian efforts and cooperation with Russia have produced concrete results in the form of improved radioactive material security and waste management and have not least made a significant contribution to the international non-proliferation agreement, while helping to ensure the environment and health of the population in the north. It is also gratifying that the National Audit Office’s study on nuclear safety cooperation with Russia shows that Norwegian efforts have produced good results and that the funds have been used according to their intentions. It should also be mentioned that Norway and Russia have set up a joint parallel audit of the projects, which underlines how far cooperation has come between our two countries. The Committee assumes that the Government will follow up the comments of the National Audit Office and improve the administrative procedures. The national audit identifies administrative challenges and potential for improvement. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing! We're in a lot of ways on the ground here, but the Riks revision hasn't pointed out any direct misgivings about these means. This work takes place on Russian territory – I think we need to underline that quite strongly. It is the authorities there that decide on the question of access to relevant areas and the organisation of work. This work is based very much on conversations and trust. It's hard to measure our contribution. There can be no doubt that Norwegian efforts through action and authority work have contributed positively to increased security in Kola, among others. at the nuclear power station. The international forums make significant efforts to coordinate the efforts of individual donor countries in the field of nuclear safety. We know that both France, Canada and the United Kingdom have come to Norway to learn from our experience of project cooperation with Russia. I have also personally been in this area and experienced that this is the case. When we look at the Russian suppliers and mutual knowledge development, it is important to stress that we are also involved in teaching Russian industry, and contribute to our competence to get it even better than it is today. Advisory committees conclude that the work has been carried out under contract. I also think it is important to stress that what has been delivered in relation to the contracts that have been concluded has been completed. In the department you are positive for better follow-up in the future, as they write. Developing the good, but sometimes challenging, neighbourhood with Russia is a central objective of Norwegian foreign policy. The opportunities and challenges facing Norway in the north are great, and in many areas it is best to find a solution precisely through constructive cooperation with Russia. It is also gratifying that this work bears fruit, and that agreement has recently been reached on the drawing of the borderline between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea and the Arctic. This is a great step forward that the Norwegian Government has made here. This must be called a milestone in the development of the good Norwegian-Russian neighbourhood. Therefore, nuclear safety work is also a good example of how Norway and Russia have developed ever better cooperation, to the mutual benefit of both parties. As far as the road is concerned beyond 2012, it needs to be increasingly linked to cooperation between authorities and cooperation on environmental monitoring and preparedness in the area. In addition, more than in the past, Norwegian efforts need to be seen in an international perspective, and preferably coordinated with the priorities of the other co-operation countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e582	Let me first of course join in the setting and a good job done by the case rapporteur. It is, of course, a co-ordinated increase that deals with this report and that in itself underlines all the successes. The reason I took the floor was a little in the extension of parts of the suspension and a little in the extension of the foreign minister's post. There are some paradoxes in this case, which I thought it is important that we simply mention from this pulpit. There is no doubt about what is Norway’s interest, namely to have this properly cleaned up. There are potentially huge environmental damage, which of course is a major problem for us too. Many of us know this first, because you've been looking at it. There has been extensive cooperation between Norway and Russia for many, many years. Many have seen the practical results, and I think they got the impression of the possible consequences of an accident. However, there is also a point in setting some of the paradoxes, and I want to mention some. Firstly, Norwegian funds, Norwegian aid, directly or indirectly, contribute to the extension of the lifetime of nuclear power stations. Some people think so — the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not think so. At least I believe that we should be very sure that we do not in any way contribute to extending the lifetime of these power plants. One is the facilities of Kola, but there are also nuclear power plants on the outskirts of St. Petersburg, which are helping to supply the Nordic power market. The money we spend on electricity helps to finance the continued operation of those plants. I know that there has been a longer life, not only because of the support from Norway to improve security – which is certainly right – but also because we buy the product they produce. The second paradox is the borderline, which is, in fact, our responsibility. Strictly speaking, cleaning up your own backyard is a Russian responsibility. This is military material designed to destroy, among other things. us. They've been very offensive to military construction lately. And the question we have to ask ourselves all the time is whether our efforts help to avoid taking the bill themselves, and that they can focus their efforts and resources on other projects that they would rather spend money on. At least on my own account, I want to say that Russia's ambitions as a regional and global power rhyme very badly with the fact that it is the international community and its neighbours who have to pick up the bill, and take the job of clearing up after what has been past adventures. We also know that there has been a positive economic development in Russia. That, I believe, brings with it obligations for Russia. And then, of course, we are all aware and well aware of our desire to clean up the nickel mill in Nikel – a major regional polluter. It is a job that has not been done, despite the fact that the melting plant has sometimes had huge profits. My point of saying this is obviously not that we should stop, not that we should not spend money on this and not have constructive cooperation with Russia, but that we should constantly balance these two interests – between what is our interests, and what is Russia’s obligations – and be sure that our resource efforts are carefully coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e600	The President notes that speaking time in this session is limited to 10 minutes, and hopes it will last.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e603	It has to be. I don't want to prolong the debate. I just want to say that the representative Borten Moe points to many dilemmas in this case complex. Let me just take the main element: Is it reasonable that we should pay for the cleanup of others? It has been there since 1990. I believe it is an important question to constantly remember and be reminded of. Of course, it is not reasonable on the basis of normal circumstances for a neighbouring country to enter and relieve a normal neighbouring country by paying the bill for a cleanup for which that country is responsible. That is why my assessment has been in all these years – even in the years in which I have had political responsibility – that we need to look at this in a slightly different perspective, partly as an investment for our own health and safety, simply because we cannot feel confident that this type of action will be implemented without our involvement. The same dilemma applies to the dismantling of nuclear submarines. Is it reasonable that we contribute financially to it when Russia modernises and builds new ones? I understand that question very well and that many people ask it. But once again, I think we need to take a pragmatic view of it, that our efforts – which are not only ours, but many other countries as well – have helped to ensure that nuclear submarines that should be cut up have been cut up in a safe and sound way. Several countries have been involved. The information has come out, and the search light is on. Let us not forget, either, that we are contributing huge sums – I must admit – should not be overshadowed by the fact that the main responsibility lies on Russia, which is gradually contributing more and more. I therefore believe it is also right that we can step down somewhat over time the amount of our contribution, as we keep a work programme that makes Russia pay for it. But I just want to stress that this is a very special type of cooperation, with a special type of country, in a special type of region where we are very affected by what's happening and not happening on the other side of the border. That is why we need to look at this effort as an investment in our own health, our own safety and, hopefully, better practices and procedures on the Russian side. It was two and a half minutes, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e616	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e634	It is a familiar and loving saying that in war and love everything is allowed. This is not true. On the contrary, the international community has created over 20 conventions that specify how wars can be waged and how the victims of war can and should be protected. As a collective term, this is called humanitarian law. These international conventions regulate both illegal objectives in war, such as: civilians, wounded, sick, sanitary staff, shipwrecks, prisoners of war and journalists. They regulate which methods are illegal in war, for example. intentional killing, torture, inhuman treatment of prisoners, hostage-taking, illegal deportation, looting, theft and rape. And not least, the conventions regulate what is classified as illegal means in war. It's e.g. poison, flue gas, rifle projectiles with phosphorus as explosive, certain types of mines, class weapons, or in other words weapons whose main effect is to damage by fissures in the human body. In summary, humanitarian law has grown stronger and stronger since the Hague Conference was first organised in 1899. It's positive. At the time – as a small reference to the debate on depleted uranium that we are going to have here today – it was actually a main theme to limit a type of ammunition called stupid. Uranium depleted is used in armour-breaking ammunition. The mass used, combined with high speed, means that the projectile needs through thick armoury plates and leads to spraying both inside the tank and outside the environment. Of course, a hit of such a projectile is devastating for those inside the vehicle, unless the vehicle is specially protected against this type of ammunition. The dust from depleted uranium is said to present a high health hazard. There is also a risk that the substance may go into groundwater and thus spread and affect the civilian population. Uranium is known to be heavy metal, and from animal studies it is known that lung and kidney damage has been detected. The depleted uranium is in practice free of charge. This means that depleted uranium is preferred by many manufacturers in armour-breaking ammunition. However, depleted uranium is not used in Norwegian weapon production, for example. in the interests of a precautionary principle and the working environment of employees. It's not a political task to be able to master chemistry. There we must support professionals in the field. What is, however, a political task is to consider how to deal with the uncertainty of health consequences, and that on the basis of what I started this article, namely humanitarian law. Then I want to make some points. First of all, more research needs to be done. I believe – although I have raised this debate today, as I think it is an important debate – that it is realistic to see that it is difficult to implement an international ban in the form that many countries accept such a ban on the use of depleted uranium in weapons, without making the facts about long-term health damage even more clearly documented and made publicly available. It brings me to my second point. It is necessary to establish more transparency about the use of depleted uranium. Today, we are not sure which countries are using depleted uranium in their armoury ammunition. More transparency around these questions could make the consequences even clearer. What we know, however, is that skepticism against depleted uranium has spread to several countries, most recently to Belgium, which in 2009 imposed a funding ban on depleted uranium in weapons. Thirdly, the important political question: does not the risk and uncertainty of the health consequences require us to base a precautionary principle? I think the answer to that is yes. Both soldiers, workers in the defence industry and, in particular, the civilian population living in areas where weapons containing depleted uranium are used, should be aware of the risk posed by this ammunition. Because when insurgent reports from Fallujah in Iraq show births with some major malformations, and the mortality of young people born after the war in 2004 is described by researchers as alarmingly high, and the suspicion of using this type of ammunition, the world community should react and decide. When one is concerned about cancer risks in Iraq, Kosovo and the Balkans, and there are reports that both, yes, reject but also document the leukemia of soldiers and the rest of the population, and that this is due to inhaled dust from depleted uranium, I believe that this is an argument to limit its use. When research shows that the use of depleted uranium simply does not show any clear picture of health consequences, I believe the world must adopt a precautionary principle and limit the use of depleted uranium in anti-pancreatic ammunition. I think there is a broad consensus in this room that we should do what we can to limit the damage to the civilian population in wars and conflicts. We also know that women and children are particularly vulnerable to war and conflict. Norway has achieved a great deal, I would say. We have been a driver of the International Convention against Class Weapons, not later than 2008. There has been a formidable work by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which has been successful, and we have also been the drivers of the Convention against Landmines established in 1997. Now it's time for Norway to face up to the use of weapons with great aftereffects for civilians and soldiers, and this time I think we should work for an international ban on the use of depleted uranium. So the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take such an initiative. I want to end up real, good Busherud-wise, by quoting Hellbillies from the way that's called Good Questions: 'It would be so easy to make an option When all æ is on sale.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e677	The interpellant raises an important question. The possible negative consequences of the use of depleted uranium in weapons and ammunition have been discussed for a while, and the matter is still up to date. Let me first make it clear: the government is seriously looking at the many concerns that have emerged, and the concerns that rightly exist about the use of depleted uranium ammunition. Attention on this topic is important. At the same time, there is still no clear evidence, or what we could call falling evidence, as to the relationship between the use of depleted uranium in weapons and long-term negative health consequences. Therefore, the circumstances today do not allow for an international ban on the use of depleted uranium in ammunition, for example. through a Convention. The conditions are not right for it today. Norwegian defence does not use depleted uranium in weapons and ammunition. This was adopted in 2001 as a precautionary measure, which the interpellant was also in, because the type of ammunition was then considered controversial. The defense's armour-breaking ammunition, including ammunition for the new fighter planes, is based on the metal tungsten. Last week, the defence entered into a contract with Nammo on the development of ammunition for the F-35 aircraft. The aim is that it may also be used by other purchasers of the aeroplane who do not wish to use ammunition based on depleted uranium. Let me add that uranium ammunition has not previously been used in Norwegian shooting fields. The Norwegian arms industry does not produce such ammunition, either for defence or for export. So you can ask, why has the depleted uranium been used by the arms industry in several other countries? Uranium depleted is a substance, and even if you can't have the chemistry on the rams – I agree with the interpellant – with very high density. This high tare weight enables depleted uranium to be used as filler in projectiles to provide maximum momentum energy. This gives a large velocity of the armor. For the sake of order, it is important to stress that there is the hardness of depleted uranium and not that the substance is weakly radioactive, which makes the substance applicable in weapons and ammunition. In other words, we are not in a discussion about nuclear weapons in this context. But in addition to the military utility, does the use of depleted uranium have health or environmental consequences? That's the question in the interpellation. The question has been asked for many years, and Norway and other countries have been concerned about finding answers to these questions. The context in which the questions are asked has varied. It has been a matter of finding explanations of disease and other disorders in war veterans, such as the U.S. to the Americans following the 1991 Iraq War and international forces serving in the Balkans. There has also been alarming evidence from Fallujah in Iraq, which the interpellant addresses, and malformations of the foetus and high incidence of cancer in Iraqi civilians. One of the hypotheses of some researchers and civil society organisations is that these phenomena may be related to the use of depleted uranium in weapons, that is, by direct contact or inhalation of dust containing depleted uranium. The World Health Organisation, the WHO, the UN Environment Programme, UNEP, and the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, have all provided reports indicating that it has not been possible to draw scientific conclusions that such a negative causal relationship exists between the use of depleted uranium in weapons and its health or environmental consequences. Nevertheless, it is important to note that all three of these three international institutions are showing caution in view of the possible long-term consequences that we cannot see at present. The UN Environment Programme, UNEP, points in particular to uncertainty as to the possible effects of depleted uranium ending in groundwater. WHO is working on a study of recent data that hopefully helps to clarify the picture. I believe it is required that the world community, among other things: through WHO, UNEP and the IAEA, continue to investigate the potential consequences of the use of depleted uranium in weapons. In addition, Norway contributes funds to the investigation carried out by researchers associated with the International Coalition to ban uranium weapons – ICBUW. This is also a partial response to the interpellant’s profound question of the need for knowledge and research. We all want to contribute to bringing more knowledge about this, such as the Conference on URBAN in Arms, which takes place on 6 December here in Oslo, organized by the International Women's League for Peace and Freedom. The interpellant's questions concern an important point in government's policy in this area, which we have chosen to call 'humanitarian disarmament', and which I would like to say a little about. Let me illustrate this by basing on what I see as the very premise of interpellant questions: Some weapons and the way many weapon types are used, causing unacceptable humanitarian consequences and human suffering. There is ample evidence and experience in fields showing this. That is exactly why, together with like-minded countries, we have been working for international prohibitions, for example. landmines and class weapons – and, as the interpellant was inside, we succeed. For the government, the humanitarian consequences of weapons are an important dimension, whether in the field of nuclear disarmament or in the field of international regulations covering conventional weapons. Norway’s policy is based on a fundamental principle of international humanitarian law, namely the distinction between fighters and civilians. If a weapon is designed to prevent the civilian population from being spared by use because of the blindness of the weapon or the risk of its being hit by civilians, the use of that weapon will necessarily lead to a breach of the principle of separation between fighters and civilians. In such cases, there may be grounds for an international ban on a given weapon. This was the case with land mines and class weapons. But all of this is a question and a problem area that embraces beyond regular armed conflicts where humanitarian law applies. This is about a policy on disarmament, arms control and armed violence in its entirety, focusing on the consequences for individuals and social costs. Norway is engaged here on a broad front. Regulation and prohibition through international legislation are important legislative instruments in many cases. Another important part of the Norwegian approach here is the emphasis on the need to help the victims of the use of weapons and armed violence, so that injured and abandoned persons can live lives worth living. It is important that we, on the Norwegian side, are engaged and have a good policy in this area as well. In terms of the use of depleted uranium, contexts and shades are important. The debate will end up in the wrong direction if we rely solely on depleted uranium when we look for reasons for the issues that concern us. We cannot rule out that there may be other causes of warfare than depleted uranium, isolated, which is behind the disturbing conditions we see in Iraq and in the former Yugoslavia. For example, explosive weapons of many kinds have been widely used in densely built strips in both these areas. We now know some of the immediate humanitarian consequences of using such explosive weapons in densely populated areas – here I will also mention Gaza – but we do not know enough about the effect over time and the indirect consequences of the destruction of sanitary facilities, the bombing of factories and the release of poisons, chemicals and dust, or the psychosomatic consequences of traumatic experiences, just to mention some of the more complex conditions we must also be concerned with when assessing the humanitarian consequences of warfare in areas where there are many people. My point is this: it's necessary to put the use of depleted uranium into a slightly wider context. It's in no way the same thing as releasing the depleted uranium roof as a single thing. I mentioned that Norway supports more research in this field. In the international context, in the United Nations, Norway raised our concern about the use of depleted uranium in weapons by 18 October this year. We encouraged other countries to lead where — as the interpellant points out, given the uncertainty about the adverse effects — as Norway has chosen as a practice for its military forces. However, we must recognise that there is little support now based on current knowledge to introduce an international ban on the use of depleted uranium based on a precautionary principle. Norway also voted in favour of a UN resolution in the autumn which provided for further studies and information on possible adverse effects of depleted uranium in weapons and ammunition together with allies such as Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. Another important message of this resolution is that countries that have used depleted uranium in weapons and ammunition should show transparency around this and contribute to monitoring where possible. Without such transparency, it is difficult to pursue research in fields of potential aftereffects. So to sum up: it's not time, as we see it now, to initiate a process towards a ban on the use of depleted uranium. But it's time to keep things on the agenda, get more research and support up under the international processes that can bring more clarity to a question that obviously needs more light, more knowledge for possible future action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e711	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a – I would say – sober, but offensive position on this matter. When I heard the post from Gahr Støre, the famous song from Mahalia Jackson struck me: «Now Lord don't move my mountain but give me the strength to climb” I think we all understand what that means. Obviously, there's no doubt that the situation in the world today is too early to think of a ban, that is to say a convention. It's a vision I share, of course – that's to think you're going to get an impact on it – but it's about helping us get more knowledge on the table. There are many other ways to think about gradually eliminating the use of depleted uranium in the world. I have raised this matter because I am concerned. I also gave a very thorough explanation of why, based on concrete examples. I am very pleased with the work that has been done, attached to the UN decision, which is to keep the matter warm and bring the matter forward in the process. I think that's important. At the same time, this is a kind of case where I think you might never get a clear picture. You may never get every scientist, or every reporter in the world, to give a clear picture. That is why this is a policy. Contributing to new knowledge coming on the table, and also to the process, are important policies. So I want to thank you for an offensive and thorough review by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I am pleased that you think that this matter should be in a process. So I think we're going to work on such a thing in the long term, and that at some point we're going to succeed in eliminating the use of depleted uranium in the world. I have a hope that we will get it done. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e726	‘The new but offensive’, said the representative. I'll take that. Otherwise she uses good metaphors from music life. It was a film that struck me, which can illustrate a little bit of the ambition to start big projects and hope that they can be implemented. There was a film about a man who went up on a mountain and came down from a hill. It turned out that the mountain trip did not become so offensive. I believe that we have shown in the past that we are ready to go uphill, climb high mountains, in this work, but then we should be sure where the mountain is, and that we have a course we can follow. I can confirm that we will be offensive in this area. My post must in no way be interpreted in such a way that it argues why things are not possible, but argues for the work that needs to be done so that we can show progress. And neither is it that the only thing we can do as monks is to have a process in the direction of a ban. If there is one thing in the future, time will show. But there's a lot we can do along the two tracks that the representative himself points out, and that's a good summary, at my discretion: more research, more transparency. Along the two tracks, we will reveal many of the conditions that are necessary to know what more concrete action options we have. Finally, as far as humanitarian law is concerned, on which the representative was involved in his profound speech, it is a humanitarian law that does not stand still. It becomes, and it has been strengthened throughout all the years, as she also mentioned. The important thing, as I see it, is that humanitarian law doesn't always go into deficit, that is. that it comes into force with legislation after a weapon has caused a great deal of damage. That's why we use the term, which can be misunderstood, but gives us the basis to elaborate what we mean, namely 'humanitarian disarmament'. So it is not an expression of wanting to disarm humanitarianly, but it is an expression of the fact that disarmament is also seen in a perspective based on the humanitarian consequences of arms use and warfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e737	I think the interpellant addresses a very important topic and a topical matter. Although it may not be at the top of the agenda in all countries, it is nevertheless very important that we discuss this. We need to discuss and look at the consequences of the weapons used in warfare, and what unacceptable humanitarian consequences and human suffering are being triggered by them. Norway was at the forefront of both the 2008 class arms issue and the 2007 Landmines Convention. It's a pleasure what the Foreign Minister is now referring to, the attitude that Norway had in the United Nations on further research and development, so that we get more insight into and transparency about the use of depleted uranium in weapons. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said a lot about Norway’s ‘internal’ attitude to these weapons. We have taken them out of our production, and we have developed new things, among other things. for the fighter planes and how to implement them, alternative things. You do that because you're not sure about this material. You're not sure the consequences. What is most important to us is that we are now working internationally for a ban. But it is clear that a ban must also have a basis for creating conventions in this area. The most important thing is to know more about this substance, we need to know more about the adverse effects, to get to it, and then there is research and development in this area that can prove it. It would be a pleasure if we could have a precautionary principle here and say that we should enter into international agreements on a ban. But as long as we really don't have the professional basis to say that, it might be hard to get it to right now. That's why we have to pursue the second track here, which will then be important. It is also true that if we look back at the other two pleasurable bans and conventions we have received in terms of class weapons and landmines, we knew quite a lot about these and what humanitarian disasters were in the areas that were affected, and we managed to get it done. Here it was very concrete. This is where you saw it. It can be pointed out that there may be other materials that cause damage and have aftereffects in some war zones. We're not sure if it's depleted uranium that's the cause. But nevertheless, I think we need to start to agree that there needs to be a much stronger pressure on research, so that we can get the consequences for people in retrospect and take precautions. This is how I want to summarise the short article I have had in this matter: it has to be put at the top of the agenda, there has to be more research, and we have to keep an eye on the matter, as the interpellant said in his post. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e752	I think I'm about to start in the same direction as the Foreign Minister did in his last post, where he referred to a film. I think in this case I'll go so far as to suggest that I expect the Foreign Minister to join some familiar and dear words from Egon Olsen, that he has a plan. After hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I expect that he has a plan in this matter. So I'm at least in the right direction compared to the three that have been before me here today. I believe that the matter that the interpellant has raised is interesting, it is challenging and not least instructive, because there are question marks that are not clarified by the issue that the interpellant addresses. Only that in itself is a reason for putting it on the agenda. In my view, it has two primary approaches — the humanistic, health approach, which should be focus No. 1, and, of course, the military, defence dimension like the other part of it. Of course, I also fully agree with the inter-pellant, which points out that we have Rules of Engagement, we have rules for warfare, we have a humanistic averaging also at the highest level of conflict that exists – war – and it bears witness that the world has moved on. You've gotten a sense of it, and you focus on it. Once this piece has been taken care of, it is also that when there are armed conflicts, they are to be carried out in such a way that the civilian population is kept away from the actual combat episodes as far as it can. That's quite a consensus. Had everyone complied with these rules, the world would have been a much better place to live. But it's now that it's not a fact. So to the problem itself by using depleted uranium. I think it is important, as others have also pointed out, that knowledge is the key to success, but if you are to get knowledge, you need to research – as both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister have pointed out. It was also pointed to the role of Norway in terms of class weapons and landmines. One challenge here is that the big players are sitting on the fence. The big players are waiting even where there is a proven reason for banning it. That's why I think you're going to go on with what the interpellant has raised as a problem here, you're going to be to those degrees depending on having more knowledge of it. It's a fact today that you use depleted uranium for quite a lot of civil relationships, among other things. in the aircraft industry, I've read. I'll be very surprised if you use it with certainty that it can harm other people. Then you have to go further here, you have to have more knowledge, and you have to assume that there are up to several dimensions that need to be treated at the same time. But now it's once that knowledge is power, also in relation to the challenge that the interpellant addresses. I believe that for all countries that plan to comply with international agreements – Norway is committed to this through its NATO exposure and UN exposure and would like to take a leading role in finding out what the facts are – it will, once you have facts on the table, make it much more likely to come to a common position. It would be if we were to run a one-sided focus on depleted uranium, and it turns out that it's not the main problem with the damage that the interpellant points to. So we've done ourselves and the system a bear service. It just shows how important it is to have good and thorough research that is kind of indisputable. I look forward to the further work of gaining more knowledge. And if there's a unique answer, which means you have to focus even more on not using it, it's obviously absolutely positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e769	Uranium depleted is a heavy metal used in some armour-breaking ammunition as a core to give the projectile a high weight per millimetre cross-section. In other words, the score is not the radioactive properties of the metal, which is only a nuisance and is therefore sought through depletion, but rather the high density that allows a heavy projectile even with relatively small calibre. Equally effective would have been achieved if uranium had been replaced by another heavy metal with the same or higher density, but this is a technical and not least an economic issue, especially in military use and context. We haven't, as many people have, depleted uranium in any Norwegian ammunition. It is in the first row of some major nations that this is being used, and the question that the interpellant raises about the possible toxic effects of project fragments that remain in the ground after use is, as many have been involved, unsolved. However, the debate is very similar to the claim of the incidence of cancer in humans living near radar installations. That is to say, it is very difficult to get opinion to deal soberly and realistically with statistics and facts in such contexts, which have been quite difficult to recover. So the question is, what about the so-called Gulf syndrome, or the Iraq syndrome, which also others have been in, that hit the American soldiers who participated in the Gulf War? Here, too, depleted uranium has been brought forth as one of the sins. The symptoms of Golf syndrome included: weakness, headache, memory loss and sleep disturbances. None of the soldiers who were most exposed to depleted uranium have been diagnosed with blood cancer. However, small amounts of uranium have been detected in the kidneys without developing a kidney disease rash. I think there is every reason to stress that the cancer cases and health plagues documented after these wars, both among military personnel and civilians, must be seen in the context of oil storage and oil refinery fires. Chemical factories and warehouses were bombed, and this led to extensive pollution from a number of hazardous substances, for which we have not yet fully seen the aftermath. In addition, the Gulf soldiers were given new vaccines and, in part, little tested ones. Nevertheless, there is every reason to give credit for the thematics being taken up in the interpellation today, and for the interpellant to indicate that there are civilians being affected. In addition, both Hellbillies and Egon Olsen have been brought forward in the debate here. I just miss Dynamitt-Harry, who really was a professional in this field. But leave it in this context. This weapon appeared when the Russians built armoured vehicles in the 1970s that NATO countries were unable to penetrate. I share the view that there is no new convention where the people involved are run over by countries that do not use depleted uranium. Here Norway must use its known channels through the systems in which we participate – the NATO alliance and conversations with our allies. We need to set up and use all the possibilities we have in these areas to address this issue, in particular through the use of multilateral channels through NATO. So far, it's just the United Kingdom and the United States that continue to actually use depleted uranium. I'm sure more people are using this as a core weapon. But if we are able to convince the United States and NATO, it is far more effective than getting 150 countries, which in any case do not use such ammunition, to sign a new convention, a new declaration – there are many other declarations in this area from before. I share the conclusion of both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister that more research needs to be done. Then we're going to work on limiting – and preferably preventing – application through our bilateral channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e788	Thank you for the debate. There's just a few things I want to comment on. Firstly, is the only possibility a ban? No, of course it's not. Obviously, if all the defence industry had used alternatives to depleted uranium in armoury ammunition, this would not necessarily have been a big deal or a matter that was important to put on the agenda. I want to show that in my main post I also said something about the theme that we are today uncertain about which countries have depleted uranium in their ammunition. A greater transparency related to that, we all agree to get in place. My intention to raise the debate today was not necessarily to show that the Norwegian defence industry is using other alternatives, but to raise the debate on humanitarian disarmament – and here I share Mr Støre’s assessment and concept – to try to help keep this issue warm in Norway and in an international context. So the representative Ellings said something about the different needs, that is, the humanitarian approach – the health approach – was, I guess, the concept that was used – and the approach of defence. I want to say that to me there is no contradiction between these two – on the contrary. In this case, which is linked to depleted uranium in armoury ammunition, there are two sides of the same case, for it is claimed that depleted uranium poses a health hazard for soldiers. There's no contradiction between the two perspectives. Today's debate shows that there is consensus among those who have spoken that knowledge is needed to get the matter further in the process. I have, from the Labour Party, been concerned about going a little further than that, by saying that we should base a precautionary principle. I have not heard the Right Party or the Advance Party say actively that they support it, so it hangs a little bit in the air. But all in all – I want to say that – I am pleased with the work that Norway has done in this field, that we have kept the matter warm in the United Nations, and that we are continuing to work on the factual basis of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e799	I can actually do the interpellant's summation to mine. I think there has been a good round of lighting this important issue with an agreement to acquire more knowledge, have more transparency and pursue the opportunities that Norway can have. I just want to make a brief comment to the representative Ellingen, who was concerned that there was no universal inauguration about the class weapon convention, and that the big ones were sitting on the fence. Then I just want to say in connection with the fact that from time to time the kind of question is raised, and there are objections we are going to listen to, that of course this convention would have been stronger if all the big manufacturers of the class weapons were present. That's what we've been saying all along. But the interesting thing is that even a convention without all the big ones has meaning. It has a moral significance. We've seen that with the antipersonnel mines convention, which has now joined over 150 states. Once again, they're big on the outside or on the fence, but what we've seen is that trade in that type of weapon has stopped completely – the use of them too, probably. And I notice the interesting phenomenon that 68 senators in the United States have written to the Obama administration and expressed the wish that the United States should join. Now I don't think it's near the coming climate of the American Congress, but it's an interesting signal. That is why we can achieve significant progress without all of us – and all of the big ones with – in the binding agreements, but I think it is in the direction that progress is being made. It may also be an inspiration to pursue the matter raised by the representative Gustavsen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e807	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e821	The Free Trade Agreement covers trade in goods and services, competition issues and public acquisitions. Own agreements have also been concluded between each of the EFTA States and the GCC on trade in agricultural products forming part of the Free Trade Agreement. An overall committee welcomes the agreement providing Norway with improved market access for industrial products, agricultural products and fish and the agreement provides for Norway to be given free trade for virtually all products exported by Norway to the GCC from the first day after the entry into force of the free trade agreement. It is also worth noting that the agreement provides for better conditions for Norwegian exports of services than the WTO agreement on trade in services, GATS, provides, for example, in shipping and maritime insurance. It is also important to point out that the provisions of the Free Trade Agreement confirm the parties, inter alia. its commitment and respect for environmental considerations, fundamental human rights and employee rights. During the negotiations, the EFTA States have acted as an overall group on the basis of joint negotiating positions, on which agreement has been reached following previous internal EFTA meetings. Since the Free Trade Agreement and the bilateral agricultural agreement are considered a matter of particular importance, the consent of the Storting to ratification is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. Proposal for a decision was sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee, which expressed the following opinion: ‘The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence refers to the draft recommendation of the Economic and Social Committee dated 18 November 2010, concerning Prop. 132 S [[2009-2010]] With the agreement of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, a Joint Liaison Committee shall propose the following: ‘The Grand Duchy agrees to the ratification of a Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and the Cooperation Council of the Arab States of the Gulf and an Agreement on trade in agricultural products between the Kingdom of Norway and the Cooperation Council of the Arab States of the Gulf [[GCC]] [[GCC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e844	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e860	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e869	The Committee has examined draft representatives 174 S for 2009-2010 from Borghild Tenden and Trine Skei Grande to set a target of 25 pst. reduction in the administrative costs of business related to regulations and form fields by 2012. The size has dealt with proposals of this kind on a number of occasions, somewhat different in form, but everyone is concerned with reducing the administrative burden on business, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are exposed as a result of the fact that the form field, of course, is particularly burdensome for them. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes, and speakers from the majority will certainly state the reasons for this in more detail in the debate. I would therefore like to justify why the Right and, to the extent also, an overall opposition believes that there must now be time for more active action than simply attaching this proposal to the Protocol. I refer to the only point on which the Committee agrees in its comments, namely the need to set a quantifiable objective for simplification, and the Committee agrees with the proposers that such an objective must create a notable and measurable change for the better in the company's everyday lives. Yes, that's what it's about, but it's in this area that unfortunately nothing happens. For industry, the administrative costs of enterprises have been reduced over a long period of time. Those present at the Alta Småting in August 2010 would have heard a unisoning cry from the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are least equipped to deal with this bureaucracy, that something has to happen now. And there have been signals from the government parties. We have heard the head of the Business Committee say to the media that he is in favour of lifting the audit obligation. It will mean quite a lot. He calls it "necessary extra expenses for creative people who run their own business". That is very well said – I just have to agree with this. This is why the overall political climate believes that simplification work needs to be started. But it's still standing. The compliance-related resource use of enterprises has remained unchanged since 2006. There has been no reduction, it has been rather a small increase, so that impatience is getting bigger. It is quite obvious that when people see this, it is an obstacle to one starting business, but also to continuing to do so. And I repeat that small businesses are the most vulnerable group in relation to this. Our neighbouring countries are doing it. They're good at setting targets, and they're doing a great deal on the way to achieving targets. Denmark has reduced by 20 p.m., after setting a target of 25 p.m., and in Sweden they have also made significant progress. The councils have also been out saying that he is fixing a reduction in administrative costs, and has talked about 7 billion. kr. I think that would be a good start, but unfortunately there is no deadline for this. I had hoped that the Council's letter of reply to this document could suggest something about it, but then it has not happened. Anyway, now it's really urgent to get started. I don't think you can stay in business with good talk anymore. We've been lying very far behind. And the credibility of the Norwegian authorities in view of the fact that it is possible to reduce it, I believe that it is weakened by the fact that it has now taken so long. So setting a concrete goal is important. But it must also be realistic. That is why we have made a slightly different proposal from that of the proposers. It's not just screaming out what's going to happen, you also have to have a realistic sense of when this can be feasible. I then promote the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e888	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e891	It is, as the rapporteur said, a joint committee that thinks that we should set a quantifiable target for simplification, and that such a goal must create a notable and measurable change for the better for businesses and their everyday lives. It's hard to interpret the left when they refer to 54 billion. As a potential for simplification, for the Left too, I would like to say that there is a need to distinguish between activities that contribute to the creation of value in enterprises and society, and activities that can be considered as distant, possibly in another way. So what's the right number to assume? The government wants to spend more time finding the right starting point and checking it out against our neighbouring countries. In the meantime, simplification is progressing, step by step. This has the Minister of Industry high on the agenda – no doubt about it. The most important thing is to end up with real simplifications for businesses, not just a measure that might have turned out in retrospect was poorly thought out. The comments on the right-hand side also indicate that it is more important that a measure is set than that this actually leads to a real simplification. The government party looks at it in contrast: the most important thing is actually real simplification for our businesses. And the work has begun, as I said. It's sad that the left or right part of the cork has come to realize that Altinn I is in place, and that we're in full swing with Altinn II, which leads to simplification for our businesses. The Government Party has also failed to cut transfers or fees to the Brønnøsund registries, as the Left has done in its draft budget. Left cut 25 pst. of the fees in the Brønn Island Registers. These reduced revenues are most likely to result in fewer services and less investment in measures to simplify the everyday life of businesses. When Left manufactures this as simplification measures, it is a disc bomb. The left also stands alone with the Progress Party saying that 25 pst. by 2012 is realistic. Both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are disunited in this set of times. In conclusion, I would like to say when the opposition uses black paints and manufactures it as if it is impossible to do business in Norway today, that the World Bank has managed Norway for the eighth best country to run and own businesses in. Sweden is behind us, and this even if there is a rule board in place. The government's party has agreed that we're going to have more simplifications, and this is going to come up with more fields beyond. We have a review of both the stock law and the accounting law, in order to identify some measures. Finally, I would like to point out that it seems that creativity really flourishes when a person no longer has the power to actually implement measures. Why was none of these proposed simplification measures implemented during the one put in government? Was it that all the parties were disputed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e910	First of all, so that I don't forget it, I promote our proposal contained in the vote. Then I've done it – without going down from the pulpit. The proposal submitted by the Left is a very good one. This is a proposal that has also been discussed in the past, for example. by the Party of Presidents. We have also made proposals to reduce the form field. And it's not right, as the Labour Party representative, Ingrid Heggø, points out here, that the Progress Party, Left and others have not got Altinn I and that they have started working with Altinn II. Yes, we do, I can assure the representative. But the problem is that while other countries are actually able to reduce the time use associated with the form field, and thus also reduce the cost, Norway is going the opposite way. For example, in the period from 2006 to the present day: Sweden has reduced its time use by 7 pst., Denmark by a whole of 20 pst., while in Norway we have managed to increase it by 0.09 pst. In fact, we haven't had a decline in spite of having the ALTIN system. And that shows some of the problems we're facing because we haven't been able to set a goal. I have repeatedly referred to the fact that the Altin is very good, and that it is a right way to go. But then we don't have to spend too long now attached to the Altin II system that's in progress, to put in place a double communication, so that reaches, among other things. the trader is required to report, business can report to one place, and offices can collect information from it, rather than reporting to several state agencies at the same time. So it's a right way to go, but the thing is it just takes so long. Then, in an excellent way, Mr Svein Fletten has, at least in part, prepared a good position. It was only at one point that I was not as satisfied with the case rapporteur. That, of course, was where we separated the layers, and one would not agree with the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted in the vote. It's important to set goals. That is why we have promoted that proposal. It's important that you get clear goals to go after. And we're not saying that the goal is set by 2012, we're saying by the end of 2012. The original proposal for the Left was by 2012 – we thought it should at least be by the end of 2012. So I noticed that in a comment to the VG on 27 October 2010, the Council of State was actually out there fixing a reduction in the administrative costs of approx. 7 B.C.E. kr. This will amount to approx. 12 pst., calculated from the total estimated resource use. It is also not right when the representative Heggø from the Workers' Party is standing on the speaker's chair and says that you should reduce by 54 billion. kr. 54 B.C.E. kr is the cost currently actually considered applicable to enterprises related to resource use. That's not what you're going to reduce by -- that's what's the starting point for what you're going to reduce from. This is an important work, and I expect the Council of State today, not only through an interview with VG, but also via the Chair of the Stortinge, to tell us what reductions we should have in the use of resources related to the form field, so that the Stortinge is informed, and that one can also say something about the time perspective and not just say that we have as our goal some time out there to reduce it by 7 billion. kr. I look forward very much to the articles of the Council of State. I have now participated in debates in this room in approx. 13 years. Time and again, I've just heard great visions and talk that we have to do something for the small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to reduce the form field, we need to reduce resource use. A number of proposals have been made. In this connection, I would like to point out, inter alia: Document 8:10 S for 2010–2011, where the Progress Party once again takes up 21 proposals for simplification. There is already a proposal for consideration in the Financial Committee relating to the audit obligation for companies with turnover below 5 million. kr. We now expect broad support for this, also because, as I said earlier, the head of the Business Committee has said, this is the way to go. I look forward to the Storting deciding on this as soon as it comes into place. I look forward to hearing the promise of the Council of State, including from this pulpit, of how much reduction will come, and when it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e933	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e936	I want to start by giving tribute to the Left to make another good suggestion for simplification. The size was dealt with as late as in our other proposal from the Left to establish a Norwegian Rule Council. Unfortunately, the proposal did not get a majority. In 2009, Sweden established the Governing Council to assist the management of business simplification. The task of the Board of Governors is to verify the consequences of new rules and amendments to existing rules. The Board of Governors shall work until 31 December 2010 and the aim is to cut the administrative costs of the companies by 25 pst. by the end of 2010. Even one year after the establishment of the Board of Regulators, the Swedish can see a significant improvement, so there is enough representative Heggø and signed with different information. Like the Left, the Christian People's Party believed that Norway should establish a similar council. We need an independent body to control the impact of new rules and changes to existing rules before they come into force. Such advice would be an important tool in the fight to achieve the objective that we are debating today: a reduction of 25 pst. in the form field. The administrative burdens of business are relatively similar to those of ten years ago. It is important for companies to be able to use the time for their core business rather than to engage in ever-increasingly new laws and regulations that weigh them down and bottle them up for competitiveness. The Christian People's Party believes that many public rules, forms and injunctions lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complicated legislation. For the Christian People's Party, it is a key task of industrial policy to simplify the everyday life of these businesses by abolishing unnecessary laws and regulations and simplifying reporting through increased use of Internet-based solutions, such as Altin, as mentioned earlier. We will follow a simpler Norway with a practical approach in dialogue with the business community. The form field, with its demands for reports and completion of forms, costs the companies, as we have heard, 54 billion. kr every year. The smallest enterprises are burdened with more than 20 of these billions. Most EU countries have committed themselves to cutting the form field by 25 pst. The Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian government must also commit itself to that. The benefits to society must be proportionate to the costs to businesses. However, it is necessary to adapt the form obligations to the number of holdings to be collected. The rules must be accurate and it must be easy to control and punish the companies that break them. Many public rules, forms and injunctions lead to many reporting requirements and complex legislation. The Christian People’s Party will therefore have a simplified share law for small enterprises and assess whether the share capital requirement of Norwegian share law should be replaced by other forms of creditor protection. Sweden and Denmark have removed the audit requirement for smaller limited liability companies. In Norway, the number of Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises — NUFs — has increased sharply to 15 399 as of 1 January 2010. These undertakings are without capital requirements and audit obligations. The Christian People's Party will therefore consider removing the audit obligation for small enterprises, in line with the recommendation of the minority in the public body on the audit obligation. It's hard to achieve a goal that's not defined. That is why the Christian People's Party fully agrees with the rapporteur's intention to set a target of 25 p.m. reduction in the administrative costs of business related to regulations and form fields. Like the Right, we believe that we need to have a realistic timetable for when this is to be implemented. The Christian People's Party therefore supports proposals that the government set a target of 25 pst as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2011. reduction in the administrative costs of business related to rules and the form field and with concrete time-frames for achieving the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e959	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e962	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough presentation. This autumn, the Left has visited almost a thousand businesses around the country. We've done that to put ourselves even better into Business Norway's everyday life and get insight into what challenges they have today, and which they face in the future. One of the main objectives of the Left is an innovative Norway. For us, it is an independent goal that more start their own business, and that more people take power over their own working day. That is why we politicians must stimulate change and innovation. It's just how this transformation and innovation can happen, that we've been looking for answers to and input into our many company visits. Although different responses have been received from different enterprises, there is so far one important common denominator from almost all: the form field. Too much time and resources are spent dealing with too many forms and rules. Then Heggo and I get to argue about numbers. I am very disappointed that after five years of government, the representative Heggø does not take responsibility, and instead uses his entire article to rake down on the other parties. But it's got to be. The government has not been able to reduce its obligations by more than 0,5 pst. in recent years, and initiatives for regulatory and legislative changes, which are central to achieving results, are absent. In Europe, several countries have set ambitious national targets for reducing their administrative costs. At the EU Summit in March 2007, it was decided that the administrative burdens imposed by EU legislation should be reduced by 25 p.m. by 2012. I believe that it is essential that Norway does the same. Only in this way will it be possible to bring about a strong and lasting reduction in the cost of business. Without a concrete goal, it is much easier to avoid doing necessary and important steps. Without a concrete objective of reaching out, it is difficult to achieve results. While the Norwegian government is hesitating and assessing, governments in our neighbouring countries are acting in Sweden and Denmark, and both can show quite different results from those in Norway. In Denmark, administrative costs have been reduced by 20 pst. after the Danish Government set a target of 25 pst. reduction during 2010. Overall, this has reduced the administrative costs for Danish business by 6 billion. Danish Krone. In Sweden, the administrative costs of enterprises have been reduced by 7.3 pst. net and 11 pst. gross and has given Swedish business a saving of over 7 billion. Swedish krona. The experience with the Swedish Board of Regulators, of which the Left has proposed a similar Norwegian model, is so good that the Council’s term of office is extended until the end of 2014 and does not end at the end of 2010, as originally planned. A reduction in the Norwegian form field of 25 pst. is both achievable and realistic. It shows the experiences of Sweden and Denmark. However, the achievement of results depends entirely on the political will. It's absent. This is best illustrated by the fact that soon the Council of State has spent an entire year assessing whether to set a target for simplification. In the meantime, the form field is increasing. The proposal on joint and several liability in the construction industry significantly increases the form load for enterprises. The proposal for value added tax on ticket revenue for some sporting events increases the form load for parts of Sport Norway. The proposal for the introduction of e-VAT on e-services provided from abroad is typically poorly considered in the case of a number of individual enterprises within e.g. Graphical design. The new legislation for the refurbishment of bathrooms and other wet rooms is bureaucratic and complicated. Complicated rules and application procedures for information on own products for local alcohol producers are another example. All in all, this is well-meaning, but it's not being put into a bigger context, like this. the establishment of a Board of Regulators could have resulted. Finally, I am pleased that the Progress Party fully supports the Left's proposal, and that the Right and Christian People's Party are doing the same thing on the way. I therefore warn you that the Left will vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e990	Good framework conditions, good and simple regulation and simple administrative processes are important prerequisites for the creation of new businesses and the development of existing ones. In order to facilitate increased value creation and tomorrow’s business life, we are concerned that both small and large enterprises have the best possible conditions for growth and development. The government is aware that part of the time spent on, for example, information search and reporting may be at the expense of other value creation. A particular characteristic of small enterprises is that they have relatively small administrative capacity, as they usually do not have their own administrative staff. Therefore, the government is constantly working to ensure that all companies spend as little unnecessary time as possible on compliance with public legislation. The proposers point out that my predecessor, Sylvia Brustad, promised to look at the legislation related to the stock law, accounting and auditing, and that today, “no world thing has happened” in this area. I would remind the representatives that the government has by no means forgotten these areas. Work on a single person investigation with a clear mandate was started in the autumn to consider making changes to the share law of the smallest companies. The investigation shall be completed before the end of the new year. Such an effective investigation will make it possible to bring in legislative changes faster than a selection with a more general and comprehensive mandate. The government is also in the final phase of its political treatment of the audit obligation of the smallest companies. A decision on this important issue will be taken in the near future. So it's not right, as the representatives claim, that "no world thing has happened" in this area. I have on several occasions signalled a desire to set a numerical target for simplification, and I agree with the representatives that such an objective must create a notable and measurable change for the better in the company's everyday life. However, there are several issues related to such a target and several challenges related to the numerical material on which the target is set. In particular, it has not been pointed out that the identified legislation has clear useful pages that affect most areas of business activity. It is difficult to operate at all without a set of well-functioning rules and public legislation. At the same time, we know that there are also unnecessary reporting requirements and for complex legislation to be complied with. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has, as you know, carried out a survey of administrative activities related to public legislation requirements. The total resource use of these activities by industry was estimated at about 54 billion. kr. I'd like to spend some time explaining what's in this 54 billion. the crowns, and provide a background for my assessment of the potential for simplification. The fact that a regulation has a cost of compliance at the level of society does not necessarily mean that legislation is perceived as burdensome for individual enterprises. There are different aspects that determine the overall cost of a regulation. If a large number of companies are required to comply with legislation, this will often lead to a high aggregated cost. In the same direction, if those carrying out the tasks involve particularly high compensation of employees, or if the legislation obliges enterprises to carry out the same activities several times a year. Activities that enterprises would in any case have carried out and the use of resources that contribute significantly to a total value creation in society are included in the 54 billion. The crowns. This means that the identified resource use has very different simplification potential. Documentation, such as: contains accounting, accounting and internal control legislation, amounting to nearly 33.5 billion. kr of the total resource use. Here it is demonstrated through company interviews that a high proportion of activities are linked to the processes the enterprises consider necessary for their own operations. Information to third parties, such as: contains statutory consumer information and labelling of products, amounting to about 5,5 billion. kr. The costs of reporting to authority via a form or by other means amount to about 15 billion. kr of the total resource use. The government's aim is to cut costs that are not necessary, but to maintain legislation that creates values. This means that the total resource use does not necessarily reflect the overall savings potential. Clearly, it is not reasonable to simplify activities that actually contribute to value creation. If we, for example, removed from the whole range of accounting laws, it would reduce the measured burden on business. But that wouldn't mean any value-creating simplification. At the same time, it is not always the most cost-intensive rules that are the most annoying. Both in Denmark and the Netherlands, which I have visited in the field of simplification objectives and simplification strategies, they have their own strategy of removing the most burdensome or most burdensome regulations, which are not necessarily the most costly ones. It's also an important consideration to take. We will take some time to consider how a meaningful simplification target should be set, and not least have a concrete strategy to implement it, so that this will not be a blow in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1027	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1030	I would like to thank the Council of State for his review. I have two specific questions for the Council of State. Now this government has been sitting above five years. The first question to the Council of State is this: How many forms have been removed during his time as Minister of Economic Affairs – which has not been as long, for just about a year? Have any simplifications taken place on the form page during the Council's term of office as Minister of Economic Affairs? The second question is: In a commentary on the VG on 27 October 2010, the Council of State figures a reduction in administrative costs of about 7 B.C.E. kr. Does the Council of State agree that this is the sum, and, if so, when should this take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1039	The detailed review of the form I think we're going to have to do in a different context, because I don't have it here on the platform right now. But what's a fact, and as I think we'll see in our eyes, is that different food ministers under different governments have set the goal of simplifying, but the results have been economical. We've had six business ministers in seven years, so here we get to share responsibility. The most important thing now is to look ahead, achieve a concrete goal and have concrete ambitions. What I have said about Denmark is that we should have as high ambitions as the Danes, but neither in Denmark was it so unrealistic that we set a target of reducing by 25 pst. in the course of a few years, as was the original proposal of the Left. We must have a proposal that can be implemented and that is realistic and concrete. Then we also meet the needs of business in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1046	I'm starting from what the state council used most of its articles to talk about, this new monitoring of resource use. Now you've found that you're going to have a new type of simplification measure that's meaningful simplification, and that the resource use that we've been operating with over a long time, that's this 54 billion. The heads, they're not consistent with the potential for simplification – and I think that's probably true. But what I also think is that business is getting quite surprised that these thoughts aren't thought of before, that you're now suddenly coming up and making new premises. How does the Minister of Industry really think this will be received in business? What does he intend to do to – I was about to say – implement this much better in the thinking of Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1053	My impression is that it is very positive in business that you have the ambition to set a concrete goal. You might be a little bit more surprised that a bourgeois government set for four years without setting such a concrete goal, and so I think there are a lot of people who say that now it might finally happen. There is no doubt that the results have been scant, as I said, under many governments in many governments, and I have enough ambition to get more simplification work in my period as Minister of Industry than perhaps the five preceding ones combined. So I think that the representative Fleet and I – if we continue in our positions in the nutrition committee and the Ministry of Food during this magnificence – can have many occasions from this pulpit to celebrate that we are getting further into the simplification work than ever before.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1060	In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘In my assessment, I also look at our neighbouring country, which already has numerical targets, in particular Sweden and Denmark. However, although this has helped to reduce the administrative burden there, experience is somewhat mixed in terms of the effects of the objectives.’ So my question is, what is the negative effect of the objectives? I didn't quite understand the last sentence there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1070	My point is that it doesn't help much to set a goal if you don't have concrete plans to achieve that goal. For the administrative burden on business, not one gram is reduced by the fact that politicians in the UK or in the government or in the department set themselves an unfollowed target. In Sweden, an ambitious target has been set, but there has been a much shorter one than the ambitious one. But even in Sweden – where an ambitious target has been set that has not yet been achieved – it has not been found to produce a 25 pst. Simplification targets during — what will it be — one and a half to two years. None of the countries we have been in contact with have done so, either the Netherlands or Denmark or Sweden or the United Kingdom. We want to create a goal that can be followed up. We want to create a strategy to reach it, so that we don't throw blues in the eyes of business, but actually improve the everyday lives of businesses, business managers and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1077	The cord shift is over. The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1082	I note that comments and now also as the Council of State states agree that the objective must be set as quickly as possible. I think it is a pity that we are now going this roundabout on a new investigation into the so-called meaningful goal. What I also think is important is that it is the government that is now sitting, and now has the responsibility, that has to do this. They've actually been sitting for a long time. Now I think the Council of State was relatively mild in its contribution to the debt of the previous government. I don't think the representative Heggo was. She has in her manuscript what has been common in these days – at least since the financial debate – that any constructive proposal from the opposition is black paint. But it is not at all – it is absolutely necessary work for something to happen at all. There are no proposals from the opposition that Norway is the world's best country to live in, Norway is at the top of it and the statistics from the World Bank on how good it is to run business. Yes, it is good to do business in Norway, but it should be in this country as well. But if you look three-four pages further into the same World Bank report, you will see a statistics on how easy it is to operate and what has happened in the last five years. There's Norway on the statistics that show that it's going the wrong way. We're still in front of Zimbabwe, but it's also the only positive one can say in that context. So I think it helps business very little, and business is very little interested in hearing either how much the government did from 2001 to 2005, or how little they did from 2001 to 2005. What they're interested in is what's going to happen now, and it's the government that's responsible for. The Left’s proposal today – and other proposals that will soon appear – is no black paint; there is no attempt to put a negative focus on the government; it is a short and well-known contribution to increasing interest in this. And I also perceive at the Council of State, and at opinions given to the media by both the Committee's chairman and the Council of State, that it actually helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1095	This proposal is not a starting point for creating problems for the government. The proposal under consideration today is, of course, a proposal to try to achieve a concrete target for a reduction related to forms fields and the costs to businesses of these problems. The Council of State itself indicated in its statement that the previous ministers of industry have not been able to achieve these reductions on the basis of their wishes. Yes, but all these years of business ministers have had one thing in common in terms of that policy: they haven't set these concrete targets on what to actually go after and where we actually end up, and that's perhaps just the way to work that's one of the biggest problems in this case. This government has now been sitting for five years. I repeat: in fact, more than five years. Then it must soon be time to stop blaming the previous governments and what they did. Now it's time to start referring to your own results and arguing about it. I challenge the Council of State once again, because the Council of State would not answer my question in the exchange of lines. I asked the Council of State the following question: in connection with an article in the VG on 27 October of this year, the reduction in the many administrative costs is estimated at 7 billion. NOK, which would amount to approx. 12 pst., calculated from the total estimated resource use. I put the question to the Council of State again, so that he can make it concrete from this pulpit: is the Council of State in favour of that figure, is it where it will lie, and then when will it come into place? Because I expect the Council of State, when the Council of State, through the VG, is able to inform us about the figure, can do so via the Spokesman's Chair. As regards the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, these enterprises are, in fact, the main business of the Norwegian economy. Of the total number of enterprises in this country, 98,4 have pst. less than 50 employees. It is these companies that do not have the large capital base and the large number of employees that can actually do this in a proper way. It's these companies that have to take people out of production to do this job, but anytime will do other things, like create values. That's why it's important to get this in place. Speaking of making difficulties for the government, the Progress Party has proposed removing the audit obligation for companies with a turnover of less than 5 million. kr. It's not to be disgusting to the government, it's to make a contribution to the debate about what bothers business out there. What can we do to get a step further? It's just the audit obligation. Fortunately, the Council of State says that there will be a clarification of it quite quickly. I hope in that case it will be a positive clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1108	The representative tended to tell us that we in the left have had a tour of almost 1,000 companies in the fall. It's been a very instructive round in many fields. Sick about the matter we're dealing with here today, the biggest single thing that looked at everyone's denominator when it's talking about what's the problem in their everyday life, is what's under here, a very important ideological thing. Because it's about how to deal with creating jobs, creating business. What all the business owners say to us is that much of the form field they meet is radiating a fundamental mistrust of the job they do. My grocery store in the corner calculates that he pays twice as much in VAT, taxes and charges to the state as what he takes out as his own salary. He thinks it's okay, but he doesn't think it's okay that all the systems are made from being a criminal and a criminal, and must at all times prove that he is. It's the basic system that's based on control and not on trust, which it's important to fight it down. It is a fundamental position in a society that creating jobs is, in fact, something positive that society values. It is descriptive that there are two parties that do not even take part in the debate, because this is not considered an important part. We also hear that the Council of State says that Maud Olofsson has set himself such a bold goal that she cannot even reach them. Well, she's been able to get it down by 11 pst. in a very short time – 11 pst. is not a ploy political, it is actually a pretty big effort. She has set herself a clear goal, the same goal that we propose that the government should set itself – a goal that the Council of State will not even set. Here you criticize a government council that has reached 11 pst., when you don't want to set a percentage of a target. In fact, to set up some bold goals for some important matters is quite important. So I just have to comment on Heggø's a little absurd claim that cutting fees is going to lead to more form fields. Yes, then we should fight for more high fees, if that's the logic. I think it remains for Heggø to argue that a higher fee leads to a smaller form, and a lower fee leads to more forms. I think that's a logic that doesn't stick around when you're really going to try it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1122	We really agree on the starting point in this room. It is necessary to set a simplification target. That is how it should be done and how it should be designed, which one might, in my opinion, want a stronger debate on than is most necessary. There's no doubt that it's desirable to simplify, we're going to simplify. The Council of State has underlined this, and also sees the importance of eliminating unnecessary costs for business for reporting, etc. But that the Council of State will set a target while he has a strategy to achieve that goal, I think it's a little strange that parts of the Biggest actually choose to criticize him for. In my opinion, it is pointless to set a goal without initially having any sense of how to get there, or what the goal should be defined from. I think the Council of State has actually justified it in a very good way. In this sense, there is no disagreement in this hall based on the desire to set targets. I assume that the Council of State, based on what he has said, will return as soon as possible to the Stortinget with it, while at the same time he has a path that goes towards that goal. We're all happy about that. So, for the production of business and of feeding in Norway, where I think some people in this debate describe it incredibly black and white. There can be no better place for business than in Norway, where the economic framework testifies to stability, security and predictability, where productivity is high and where employment is also high. In fact, in Norway, as one of the few countries, there has been a considerable increase in employment lately – even during the financial crisis, unemployment is very low. For the period 2004-2009, we increased employment from 75 pst. up to 76.5 pst. From 2004 to 2009, we increased the number of jobs by 253,000, 190 000 in the private sector. I think that it is good to do business in Norway. At the same time, however, we should do better, and the most sensible thing to do is to follow the path outlined by the Council of State, which is also reflected in the comments of the majority in this matter, and therefore also the approach to the two different proposals, where it was best to attach that protocol and not put your finger in the air and adopt an objective, as the Progress Party and the Left want.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1138	First an explanation if it's a misunderstanding, because it sounded to the representative Fleet as if the government now had an ambition for a completely new, wide-ranging investigation. We don't. We have a one-man investigation on a simple matter. We're not going to have a new investigation on the 52 billions or the details of it, but we need to have a goal that realistically takes into account what is the real savings potential within the 52 billions. It is part of the ministry's normal work. It's not so constructive to talk about the past, maybe, but it's a reality that many governments under many governments have had great ambitions, but received few results. I don't think that's because of bad will. It's because it's demanding. All rules have some kind of function. This room has not least helped to ensure that many of these rules and requirements and reporting have been put in place, because there are good intentions in many different contexts. For the last 13 years, it's probably been exactly six and a half years with a civil majority and six and a half years with a red-green majority, so it's not that hard to allocate that debt quite evenly. The important thing is that we now work forwards to get results. Then it's also that the number that Schei Grande refers to is wrong. The 11 pst. saving in Sweden is a gross figure, and that must be the net number that is the point. It is also stated in the Document 8 that the net figure is much lower. It doesn't help business that we can make savings in one area if we add new rules to another. It must be the total savings that count. It is true that several countries have 25 p.m., but over many years. Brussels adopted it from 2007 to 2012, i.e. over five years. Denmark had an even longer horizon on this. I said wrong in my post instead. I thought it was during 2012 that the proposers thought we should have this in place, but now I see that it is by 2012. If there is anyone who can tell me about any country that in such a short time has completed 25 pst. reduction ‘related to rules and forms by 2012’, as stated in the original proposal from the Left, I will be impressed. But it doesn't exist at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1149	The last thing I agree with the Council of State, and it also comes out of our comments and our proposal. That's why, as the representative of Aasland says, all the proposals in this case are to put your finger in the air if you vote in favour of them. Our proposal is at least not to have the finger in the air longer than to the revised budget, and there should be reasonable time to achieve an objective. Then I'm very happy that the committee leader says that he wants a stronger debate, that he wants to simplify, and that he really wants to eliminate the most unnecessary costs for business. It's good to hear it from Stortinget's pulpit rather than just having to read it in the newspapers, so I'm very happy to hear it. When he says that we've criticized the new strategy, which you've seen, to find the basis for the savings potential, I can't say that I've heard someone do it today. I've had a line, where I've asked the Council of State how he thought business was responding to these changed premises. So we haven't criticized that. We have criticised that this has taken a long time, and have been met with the fact that it has taken a long time for others as well. And then there we are. This is not a black and white production – it is, as I have said before, an attempt to push more strongly. There is no doubt that this is necessary. I think that in this kind of debate it is really unnecessary all the time to remember that Norway is the world's best country for both the one and the other, and that one implicitly, without saying it, takes the credit for having at least contributed to it. Actually, it's not like that. And then these rules that we have the lowest unemployment in Europe, we have it like that, and we've created so many jobs -- yes, we have, but we've had very good assumptions. This proposal and similar proposals that come later – there is one more in the cold – have just been promoted to take care of this and to try to move on. That is what is the basis for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1162	It was about net and gross. You have to keep that in order if you're doing small business. The net number is 7 1⁄2 pst. There's a saving of 7 billion. kr for business in Sweden. Nor is it the case that this proposal was dealt with spontaneously with and presented by the Committee in Stortinget. So this has taken its time. The Progress Party has corrected the objective and we are voting in favour of the proposal corrected by the Committee. It is a long time since this was presented in the hall. It's not like this is the only thing we've suggested. Maud Olofsson's grip to reach this was to establish a rule board. The Board of Regulators, which is one of the means of achieving this goal, has also been proposed in the Chamber and voted down. I don't think we should do, for example. Maud Olofsson's job for a small job, when we see that it takes a year to decide, it's been one year since the last NHO conference. Maybe it's coming to the next NHO conference. But at the previous NHO conference, the Council of State said he would consider setting himself a goal – it's almost a year ago. It's clear that if you're going to spend so much time thinking about setting a goal, it takes a long time to get to the goal. I don't think you should criticize the Swedes who, after all, are on their way, and the Danes who have also set the same goal. Liberals and our sister parties in all countries around Europe are going to fight to achieve this goal. We're going to move on to reach it in Norway, and we see that our sister parties in other countries are reaching it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1171	I just want to clear up some obvious misunderstandings. I have not mentioned the right suggestion as putting my finger in the air. What I referred to was the proposal by the Progress Party and the Left, which in a relatively short time will cut significant expenditure, to which reference is made here and which can be discussed. So that's what I said was like stabbing my finger in the air, when it was supposed to set a target. I think that was very clear in my article too. So that in Norway, industry and the public sector, 263 000 new jobs have been created from 2004 until 2009. 190 000 of these are in the private sector. Employment has increased from 75 pst. to 76.3 pst. It is not something I take credit for, but I note the fact that it is the development of Norway, unlike in a number of countries around us. So at the same time, I can see that in most of these years this country has been ruled by a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1178	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word to short notes, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1181	I just want to make the following point: it's kind of strange that when the committee leader talks about the opposition setting a goal, it's like putting your finger in the air and just thinking about a number. So when the Council of State of 27 October in the VG sets a target, and even a dollar, it doesn't. But I have noticed that the Council of State today will not confirm this amount from the Parliament's pulpit, nor will he confirm when this target should possibly be in place. But you actually have an opportunity to realize the goal that the Progress Party and the Left want to set. We already have an Altin system in place that can be used and developed further. That's a different starting point than what our other competitors have. We have a number of suggestions. The Progress Party alone has only recently made 24 proposals specifically related to simplification. A proposal has been made to remove the audit obligation for smaller companies that can be adopted. Yes, the possibilities lie there, but the will must be there to put them into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1186	Svein Fleet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1189	It was just two things. One is the misunderstanding that the chairman of the committee would resolve. I didn't really get it wrong. What I understood the chairman of the committee could not find was a proposal he could vote in favour of. That's what I tried to prove that there was, so it wasn't necessary, really, to put the famous finger in the air. The second point I would like to raise is how many jobs have been created and how large – or how small – the unemployment rate is. I don't dispute the facts, not at all, I just dispute that it has something to do with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1196	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1212	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, it is proposed to give rise to a succession of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that the speakers on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1221	A joint committee is summed up in the intention of this proposal on the importance of innovation and to bring more innovation into all sectors of business. I present here my view of the plural, assuming that the two right parties and the Christian People's Party present their views on the minority. Facilitating innovation is something that happens on many fronts. Innovation policy is taking a broad approach, and there is no doubt that the government is already doing a great deal when it comes to contributing to more innovation. Many of the measures proposed are already being taken, are being heard or are being treated and evaluated. The government of Stoltenberg II presented the first big business message on innovation policy in 2008, where it is clear how important innovation is to achieve a resilient value creation in the Norwegian economy. We protect red-green on the Norwegian model, strengthen welfare schemes that ensure a high level of education, high levels of professional participation and a safety net in conversion processes. The red-green policy contributes to good framework conditions that make it safe for business to drive business and to innovate. And we follow up on the innovation messages in our submitted budgets. The focus of innovation is on research, design, entrepreneurship and simplification is a work that is under way. I want to make a special presentation here FORNY 2020. Commercialisation of research results is one of the cornerstones of future value creation. Through the FORNY programme, the government has already seen Norwegian research and technology development grow from idea to enterprise. FORNY 2020 is a revised and improved application in this field. Yes, I'm proud of what we've done. I thought it was great that Norway is ready for number eight on the World Bank's corps of where it is best to start, own and run businesses, and this at the same time that Norway is on top of the world's best country to live in. That's exactly what makes us unique in the world context. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. Innovation work is a continuous work based on three important elements: a creative society in which the Norwegian welfare model provides us with a good starting point for a creative society with a high ability to transform and innovate creative people, where government is to contribute by providing good education, research, organization of the labour market and by working for a culture that encourages creativity and entrepreneurship creating activities where authorities give businesses greater opportunity to innovate and leverage support and regulation where the market does not extend to: Tax is to pay according to ability and get as needed. Tax is redistribution policy. Tax is part of securing our level of well-being. When it comes to taxes on wealth, I would first like to point out that half a million fewer people pay taxes on wealth now than under the Landevik II government. The second point when it relates to property taxes is that the legitimacy of paying taxes depends on everyone paying taxes, that we don't have rich zero-tax providers. In other words, it is important for the legitimacy of the tax system. The property tax ensures that the richest pay taxes on line with other tax payers. And business policy is so much more than tax. The two right parts will remove pieces in the Norwegian model. Then we can quickly go up like a country where we're at the top just starting our own businesses and running businesses, and that we're not at the top even when it's up to living and living in the world's best country. This kind of development probably doesn't want the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1255	The Progress Party believes that more innovation is very important in order for Norway to develop further in a positive direction and to be able to meet the competition from abroad in an appropriate way. There is an ever-increasing trend in goods and services getting better and better, and that the price often also gets lower by getting better technology and more rational use of, among other things. raw materials. The Progress Party believes that in order to achieve this development, the State must contribute to a tax system as well as to a law that provides good and, not least, predictable framework conditions both for established companies and not least for those who wish to be a founder or to take over an already existing company. Very many people doubt whether they want to or dare to bet, precisely because of what it is like to do business. It is important to recognise that success depends on whether a person gets an economic return on his production. Creating something is a driving force, but to continue to create it, there has to be a profitability in it. It is important that good financial instruments are in place for those who want to develop. These must not depend on the place of residence, sex or type of product. The Progress Party believes that of different types of taxes and taxes, property taxes and, above all, inheritance taxes are what make innovation less natural. The TaxFUNN scheme is also a natural part of this, which needs to be improved in order to reach more people. To get a more innovative society, it is also important that we have a society in which we have freedom of choice and well-functioning competition. More innovation is therefore important in all sectors, including where public monopolies currently exist. We believe that we need to get a development that benefits everyone. You don't have to be skeptical about letting everyone get away in a natural way. It must not be ideology that determines how this is to be done. The goal must be a welfare society that is good for everyone. Young entrepreneurship is very important to succeed in innovation. This will lead to increased interest among young people in betting. It is important to have a holistic focus on innovation and entrepreneurial activity in the educational cycle. Research and development in educational institutions should be significantly increased and given a higher status. If we succeed in this kind of innovation, Norwegian business will go further into the future. In a relatively complex society such as Norway, which is also large and far, there are many different challenges for those who want to create their own jobs. The challenges facing you in the north are not the same challenges facing you in the south. It is therefore necessary to have legislation, as the Progress Party wishes, which is liberal and where adaptations are possible. There must be legislation that provides opportunities and not just limits. There must also be legislation and a way of dealing with it, where a question is: what can we, that is to say, the public, contribute or help to the success of businesses as far as possible? I guess no one in this room is in any doubt that to get a good society, where well-being works, and where those who need help get help, you depend on someone to create. This applies to all sectors of business. It should be alarming both for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry and for the Government that Norway has the clearly lowest innovation activity in the Nordic region. With our resources and opportunities, Norway should be no. one in this field. We, i.e. The government, boasting how good we are to help out in the world, and how good we are to facilitate the conditions for countries we help. This is probably good and necessary, but in order to continue to do this, we also have to contribute more here at home. Back to well-being and well-being. There must be no doubt that the necessary welfare services are to be financed by the public. But the Progress Party seems to lack a positive attitude from the government parties that the public and private can complement each other. We believe, and have always believed, that public and private can develop each other in terms of quality, diversity and resource use. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this must be a win-win situation for all, including for users. In addition, users must be given the opportunity to choose between operators. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are making a number of proposals today to help boost innovation in Norway, proposals that should be able to be supported without any difficulty by the government parties, or at least by parts of the government. Being the worst in the Nordic region on innovation should be a think-tank for everyone, or as another report says: Norway is a losing group in this area – innovation. I am addressing the proposals to which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1278	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1281	The proposal for action on more innovation in Norway, which is being discussed here today, is based on a serious and long-term problem in Norwegian business and Norwegian economy. The innovation capacity of Norway is declining. Norway is now located in the group of countries losing ground and competitiveness in Europe and is below the EU average. Getting into the 19th place on the European Innovation Scoreboard is absolutely not something we should be satisfied with. A few other examples: The proportion of innovative enterprises in Norway has fallen from 29 p.m. in 2001 to 23 p.m. in 2008. The proportion of R & D enterprises has fallen from 21 pst. in 2004 to 16 pst. in 2008. Even in research efforts, we are both the worst in the Nordic region and below the average for Europe – despite the fact that we may be the country in Europe with the greatest potential to invest. The contrast to other countries is great. The new major emerging countries in the world are placing massive emphasis on research, technology development and innovation. In the EU, major ambitions are now being flagged for what is called an Innovation Union. The fact that innovation is now high on the agenda and fronted by the President of the European Commission, Barroso, says some. The establishment of the ERA European Research Area is also a major and important initiative. Thus, despite economic problems in almost all EU countries, efforts and ambitions are increasing, or it may be precisely because of the economic challenges that research, development and innovation are given so much priority. This is about investments in future value creation, growth, development and well-being. The right is seriously concerned that Norway is gradually losing its talent, ideas, entrepreneurs and investment competition. That is why today's proposals contain a number of concrete measures to promote innovation. This concerns both framework conditions and incentives for businesses and investors, increased commercialisation in the field of research, increased focus on international cooperation and increased emphasis on innovation in the public sector and on public procurement. Innovation is a policy area that is important to the Right, and it was the Right Councils that raised innovation as an important area of initiative for the Bondevik II government and launched the Government's plan for a comprehensive innovation policy, from idea to value, in 2003. The Government's Innovation Committee was also set up, with a total of nine government councils as members, and an Innovation Forum with external actors was established. In August 2005, the Innovation promise was presented, with 14 concrete measures for greater growth and value creation. As you know, the TaxFUNN scheme was also established by the same government. After the red-green government took over in 2005, the level of ambition has been reduced. The red-green government has no innovation selection. The Innovation Forum was closed. We have had rest cuts, and now, for 2011, we have the weakest research budget in ten years. The tax FUNN scheme has been continued, but not strengthened. In the Soria Moria II Declaration, the word ‘innovation’ is not mentioned at all, nor in the last two languages of the throne that I have been involved in the debate. I think we can establish that innovation is not very high on the agenda of the red-green government. I'm going to be fair and give the government credit for one thing: in 2008 it presented the first big news of innovation. This Communication, an innovative and sustainable Norway, provides a good overview of the status, instruments and challenges of innovation both in the public and private sectors. However, it lacks two essentials: a clear, clear and comprehensive innovation policy and the willingness to take concrete action. The right-wing representative's proposal contains a number of concrete measures. We want greater innovation pressure in Norway. Now, all our proposals are being voted down here in the Stortinget today, so I'm going to focus on a never so small point of light that I've seen in the answer to the committee, from the Minister of Industry. The phenomenon of Business Angels, i.e. investors entering the early stage and in newly established companies, needs to be considered. If this results in better framework conditions for this type of investor, it will be important, not just for investors, who are willing to take large risks, but primarily for entrepreneurs who lack risk capital. Then we can hope that also red-green politicians realize that we need people with money to invest, and that when the risk is sky high, it's natural that profits can also be the same when an investment sometimes goes in, or out, as it might be called, with the big gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1300	First, thank you to the proposers who have taken up a very important matter. Several have been involved in various evaluations of innovation in Norway and compared Norway with other countries. But there are many different evaluations of innovation, and they focus on a little different things, and come to that background to slightly different results. I want to point to the ranking from the recognised institution IMD. There's Norway in the 9th place, and there's three places since last year. There is only one European country above Norway in that statistics. So giving such a black measurement, that innovation in Norway is very bad, is at best an exaggeration, because with a little bit of other parameters, Norway is coming out pretty well with the countries it's natural to compare with. Then I want to address some important innovation-promoting actions that the right-wing party rarely takes up. The right hand side tends to view the welfare state as a burden on business. However, the welfare state is the basis of the transition potential and the strength of the Norwegian business community. Security frees resources, time and commitment to bet on new things. This summer I was at a conference where we discussed entrepreneurship and innovation. There was also the female founder of the year. She pointed out that without kindergarten she had not had the success she had. It only shows that the value of business is the welfare state that the right-hand party often produces as a burden on business. Then there's another area that very often creates innovation. It concerns environmental liability, environmental exposure and environmental requirements. The environmental requirements of the industry in Norway in the 1970s and 1980s created the most innovative time in Norwegian industry. Without the environmental effort and the environmental requirements of the Norwegian industry in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, we would not have a competitive process and metal industry in Norway today. It just shows that environmental efforts are very innovation-promoting. Looking ahead, the environmental requirements for buildings and ships in different speed zones could lead to a proper innovation round in the construction industry and in the yard industry. An area that the right hand side often tries to talk down is state ownership. One of the strongest industries we have in Norway today is the suppliers of the offshore industry. They have been through an amazingly innovative phase and are now world-leaving. And this industry was built up because we had an active state ownership in the North Sea. The active state ownership includes, inter alia: through Statoil, builds an industry that is today among the world's leading in terms of quality. And one has gained innovation through an active state ownership. Then I would also like to point out one thing that nobody has been in here today, and that is related to statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau. It is this that innovation opportunities are the largest in large enterprises. It is slightly larger in enterprises with more than 20 added than in enterprises with fewer than 20 added. But it's only when one comes to enterprises with over 50 added, that there's significantly more product and process innovation than in the average of enterprises. At the same time, we depend on having the small enterprises, because small and medium-sized enterprises are far more than the large ones. Hence, it is very innovation-promoting to create cooperation between large and small enterprises. The big companies have the skills and the weight to put in place innovation, the small businesses can be involved. I found it very important to bet on networks that connect large and small companies, like universities and high schools, to create innovation. Then it is very unfortunate that the Right cut precisely into the support schemes that allow for the interconnection of large and small enterprises and through it triggers innovation. We know that cooperation between companies that also compete is demanding. To achieve such cooperation, one needs a little extra that comes from the public, and that Right will cut into. That seems to me to be a bad match to focusing a lot on innovation, as Right does.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1321	Innovation is creating values in new ways. Innovation and innovation are the key to economic growth. Therefore, it is clearly important to bring more innovation into all sectors of business. The government is continuously working to find improvements that can bring about the pace of innovation in Norwegian business. In 2008, the government presented its own Communication on Innovation, which provides a good overview of the importance of innovation in order to achieve a resilient value-added in the Norwegian economy. The Storing Message has been followed up with annual budgetary privileges for actions listed in this message. This government has, among other things: make the taxes on wealth fairer by making those with the largest assets now pay a greater share of taxes on wealth than before. The bottom deduction has increased from NOK 151 000 in 2005 to NOK 700000 in 2010. The result is that many people who paid taxes on wealth in 2005 from their normal assets, about 500,000 people, are now completely exempt from taxes on wealth. It is important that we now follow closely the developments in the need for measures to stimulate investment in the seed phase, and that the Ministry of Food and Trade will also follow closely the situation of the existing fund, and constantly assess the need for additional measures to stimulate investment in this seed phase. This may include, inter alia: be necessary to assess new seed funds. Competence and research are decisive for Norway to assert itself in international competition. Increased innovation is one of the most important inputs for our long-term capacity for value creation and innovation. We therefore need to constantly focus on developing tools to strengthen the potential research and education institutions, businesses and the public to recruit and retain competence at international level. It is crucial that Norway is attractive as a place of study and work for the best students and international excellence. It is also important that enterprises are encouraged in different ways to further train their workforce and develop their skills. At the bottom there must be a course of education from the elementary school to the university, highlighting the importance of knowledge and making clear demands and expectations. The right of business to research and commercialise research results must be given priority. We need a strong public commitment to research, but at the same time we need to go with business to increase research efforts, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the public sector needs to be encouraged to promote innovation. The public sector has a high potential to contribute to boosting innovation through its own initiative. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not own research departments, and public efforts against industry must be directed primarily at this target group in the field of research. Tax FUNN has proved to be a good tool, and the Central Party believes that this system must be passed on as a tax system and further developed so that more people use it. TaxFUNN must be set up so that even smaller enterprises can benefit from research skills for innovation and skills development in enterprises and in the community. Universities and higher education institutions must be promoted for fruitful cooperation with industry, and there must be a good and strong research environment in all parts of the country where cooperation with enterprises is needed. Close cooperation with the social partners, enterprises, professional organisations, tools and the educational and research community is particularly important in order to develop a good innovation policy. Particular importance is the cooperation between and management of the instrumentation, where the three main actors are the Research Council, Innovation Norway and SIVA. Much of the funding for innovation and industrial research is being channelled through these actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1347	The Center Party's Christian People's Party believes that the creation of value is the basis for well-being. We need companies that create values, and we need innovative businesses. I am therefore disappointed that the government does not support the constructive proposals we are considering today. The Christian People's Party believes that business must be built from below, and that the main role of politicians is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and profits for the distribution of important Community goods. The Christian People's Party believes that increased investment in research, innovation and good public infrastructure are key success criteria for a value-creating business that will bear the costs for future generations. The Christian People's Party therefore wants a tax system that does not destroy entrepreneurship, innovation and growth in business. The goal of the Christian People's Party is for Norway to be one of the world's most innovative countries. Innovation and migration provide economic development and free up resources that can be used for other societal purposes. New and established small businesses are central — without them stopping Norway. The Christian People's Party will stimulate closer cooperation between school, research and business with a view to entrepreneurship. In our alternative state budget, the Christian People's Party prioritised more funding for innovation. We increased support for innovation actions through the BIA, Innovation Furniture, Seed Fund for initial investment, innovation and industrial development through the SIVA, research and technology development in the aquaculture industry and value creation measures in agriculture. The world is facing major environmental challenges, especially in terms of climate. Climate challenges are in many ways the greatest innovation project of the time. The countries that come up with the new technology will have economic leadership globally. One of the major global growth industries in the future will be renewable energy technologies. The Christian People's Party believes that good incentives and framework conditions for climate adaptation that work with business and not against it will give industry a competitive advantage. With a greater focus on research and development of renewable energy, the introduction of a green certificate scheme for renewable energy production and the green twisting of the tax system, we will facilitate the business life of the future. Such an offensive will be good for the climate, good for businesses, create many new and stable jobs, provide tax revenues to local communities and tax revenues to the state. It guarantees well-being. In other words, innovation is good for everyone. That's why we politicians have to do our best to facilitate. So I know that companies will do their part of the job. Christian People's Party supports the proposals No. 2 to 10 and 12, as indicated in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1368	Let me begin by commending the proposers for a well-founded and good document. There is no doubt that innovation is crucial to our success in the future. It is crucial that in ten or 15 years' time we can still stand here on this pulpit and boast that Norway is the world's best country to live in. The key to such a development is whether we succeed in making Norway competitive internationally in terms of investing in innovation, knowledge and research. It may be trivial to say that, but in order to create and secure jobs, it is important to have a generally good framework for all parts of business, combined with a targeted effort to ensure undergrowth of unborn businesses and the development of more and better knowledge-based businesses. Our public well-being depends entirely on the value creation of private businesses, and on the taking of risk and the taking of ideas into action of initiative-rich people. Public sector instruments therefore need to be strongly stimulated for conversion and innovation rather than traditional activities, geographical considerations and conservation. The economy depends on innovation and innovation to be competitive and meet the challenges of the future. The left will unleash creativity and creativity. It must be directed at entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and it must be less regulation and regulation. This is precisely why strong efforts are being made to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business in general and small businesses in particular the main priority in the 2011 Alternative State Budget of the Left. We focus on the future by improving in particular the conditions of the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business. Many of the proposals in the vote have been fully or partially followed up by the Left in our alternative government budget for 2011. Here, there is a significant convergence of positions with the other opposition. I would also like to draw attention to a proposal that I made here in the Grand Duchy earlier today. It is a major challenge to create better market-based opportunities to support the most promising ideas and innovations of risk capital, so that projects with a high value-creating potential are better able to succeed through a stronger early-stage scale. In order to create a more dynamic culture for entrepreneurship and value-creating innovation, it is necessary to reorient Norwegian innovation policies relating to the public sector instrument. For this reason, today, the Left has made proposals to distort the public resources targeted at the start-up phase of companies and companies with high growth potential. The biggest challenge for these companies is the question of access to capital right in the period of transition of idea and innovation to production and, hopefully, profitability. As I said at the outset, there is reason to commend the rapporteurs for their good proposals in line with the policy of the Left. The left therefore supports all the minority proposals in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1387	This government is working for more innovation in Norway every single day. Much has been done to raise the profile of innovation, not least through the paper on innovation submitted in 2008 and its follow-up through hundreds of actions. We are further developing innovation policy because we want something about innovation policy, including: The evaluations of Innovation Norway and SIVA should be seen in this light. I believe that there is a great deal of consensus in this room that the authorities will help to make Norway more innovative, more adaptable and more competitive. Such a consensus is a good starting point for shaping a policy for the benefit of the country. At the same time, there are also different perceptions of which instruments are good and how to organise them in order to promote innovation in the best possible way. Proposalers point to issues that have a high impact on fiscal policy and which may be of importance for the promotion of increased innovation. The short version of my answer to this is that we should design innovation and innovation instruments that create distortions of fiscal policy as far as possible and that enable us to achieve other policy objectives and considerations as far as possible. At the same time, we share an understanding that conditions outside the more traditional innovation policy are also important for innovation, especially in the long term. Innovation is promoted both through innovation in established enterprises and through the creation of new businesses. Established business will usually have an advantage over tomorrow’s business, so capital supply and entrepreneurship issues are important for innovation and transformation. This is why we are actively assessing the development of different capital instruments, both seed funds and other new instruments – for example, support for the so-called Business Angels, which we are now investigating. Such ‘angels’ contribute with competent capital and complement the public and private instruments in this field. We also want Norway with a strong spirit of entrepreneurship. We're on our way. In 2009, 45 000 enterprises were started. Preliminary figures for 2010 indicate continued growth this year. We will give priority to policies that promote growth-oriented and profitable business start-ups. Small and medium-sized enterprises with growth ambitions are a priority target group for Innovation Norway. The government is further promoting the access of entrepreneurs to capital, guidance and networks. The desire for a more knowledge-based business is a goal that has been set both in the Government Platform 2009–2013 and in the paper on innovation. Knowledge ensures good adaptability. It is likely to be a wise policy for society if we contribute to the development of a more knowledge-intensive business. Then at least we need two things. First, we need a business that takes on and develops the necessary knowledge itself. Secondly, we need adequate funding for business-related research that provides advanced knowledge for the development of tomorrow's business. We have an active policy in both of these fields. Let me mention the Arena, The Norwegian Centre of Excellence, SkattenFUNN and nutrition PhD. as examples of public instruments in the first field, and support for technology development in ICT, biotechnology and nanotechnologies in the NFR, the User-oriented Innovation Arena, the BIA, and the Centres for Research-driven Innovation as examples of latest-promoting instruments. Internationalisation is at the heart of many of these measures — as are ambitions to build up globally exposed knowledge hubs where commercial teft, practical and theoretical knowledge can be combined in innovative and vital forms. And just to correct one thing: the representative Warloe said that we had presented – and I quote – ‘the weakest research budget in ten years’. It's totally misleading. It's probably the second best research budget in ten years. And all the research budgets, in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, are far better than any research budget under the civil government. The government wants to be pragmatic and open to what can promote innovation based on the political platform on which we were elected. As Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I want to listen to all the good advice I get. That's why we're now, for example. the evaluation of Innovation Norway and SIVA has been carried out at wide consultation, with a view to obtaining the best input for the further development of these two key institutions. Several have called for a more comprehensive innovation policy – we will also be working on that. At the same time, we must not forget that innovation policies should also be integrated into a comprehensive and comprehensive policy, with other good purposes and considerations in place. We may disagree on how we measure innovation, but we must not confuse the map with the terrain – we must not confuse R & D spending with what we get back from R & D efforts. We must not ignore that we have a learning business that ensures high productivity in ways that are not always well captured in surveys. In fact, they call OECD figures show that the level of value creation is high in Norway and that Norway is among the countries in the world with the highest productivity. The representative Fleet is critical that we say this every time, but it is — even in this context — when the situation description becomes dark and difficult, worth remembering that in Norway we have low unemployment, high growth and a good situation at the end of a financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1417	The majority in the committee say that you are ‘together with the fact that private and public providers of health, care and care services are on the same footing in the VAT and compensation legislation’. At the same time, the Progress Party and the Right have a proposal, proposal No. 11, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to equate private and public providers of health, care and care services, in view of the exemption from VAT on services rendered.’ Then it would be close to asking the Council of State: why can't you equal these two things? The second issue is about taxes and taxes, because it is clear that if you want to create something and preferably go with profits, taxes and taxes should be at a reasonable level. Many are plagued by, among other things. taxes on wealth. After all, there is a tax on working capital, and my question is: why can't you simply eliminate taxes on wealth on working capital? And in the same sling I take this with inheritance tax, it's also a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1434	It is quite fine that we have different views about the level of taxes and taxes and also the different tax rules, but that the inheritance tax, for example. to have a significant limiting effect on innovation and productivity development in Norway, I find it difficult to see. Now the Stortinget has only five days ago had the entire financial debate up. It was an excellent opportunity to discuss tax issues, the Norwegian model, which has a high tax level but also proves to be able to combine economic growth, business start-up, business development, well-being and an inclusive policy for the whole population in a better way than any other social system. If it is a tax debate you must have, I think both the minister you have addressed and the debate is wrong. However, tax arrangements such as: Tax FUNN can contribute to innovation, and it is also absolutely indisputable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1441	I will probably come back to the research budget in a later article, but not now. The Stoltenberg I Government presented a major communication in 2001 on economic policy guidelines, which reads as follows: ‘The Government therefore attaches considerable importance to the use of the space for action to increase the use of oil revenues in a way that will also enhance the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Lower taxes and taxes can improve working conditions for business to enhance competitiveness. Similarly, actions for improved infrastructure, as well as actions to generate new knowledge through research and development, will contribute to enhancing growth capacity.’.» There is no doubt that the current government has had an outstanding economic space for action. Nevertheless, Statistics Central Agency writes in its 2010 economic outlook: ‘In contrast, priorities for action to promote long-term growth may appear to have come to the fore.’ I could ask this as a question to the Minister of Finance, of course, too, but now it is the Minister of Industry who is standing here. If the Minister of Industry agrees with this, what will he do to change the government's course?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1458	The fact that we have had a unique economic basis – or let me say a little differently – has achieved outstanding economic results, we can agree, but I disagree that these funds have not been used in growth-promoting areas. Take, for example: the enormous transport promise that has been made – 10 billion. kr more than the Warloe’s own government proposed for the period 2005-2009, and now 100 billion. In the course of a ten-year period of transport, this improves the competitiveness of industry as a whole and thus also strengthens the development of productivity in industry. Research has increased by about 50 pst., I think, if I don't turn off too much now. Warloe knows, from his background in Bergen, the cultural promise, and the research budgets have actually increased more than the cultural budgets during the period we have been sitting. So we've done things and spent this money on good innovation measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1463	I fully agree with the Council when he writes to the committee that he believes that the wealth tax affects the incentives to invest. He has also said publicly several times that he believes it and would like to have good input to do something about it. He also says today that he listens to good advice. In a previous article, the representative Holmelid said that innovation is largely created in companies with 50–60 employees. This means that the changes made to the wealth tax of the red-green government are not of particular importance to these companies. Nor shall I raise any discussion about the wealth tax, but as Minister of Industry, could the Council of State, as an assessment by the Department, consider what is in the proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right, what unfortunate, negative impact it has on innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1472	After all, the proposers themselves refer to positive feedback from the Minister of Finance to constantly look at devices, including the tax on wealth. I've said that we don't have any religious or dogmatic relationship to it, but that we need to secure a tax system that not only provides income enough for the well-being, but ensures legitimacy and justice in the tax system. If we, for example, Experiences that many with the largest wealth become zero-tax collectors or no longer pay personal taxes, I think it will undermine the disintegration of ordinary people and ordinary workers into the tax system. Could you find changes that angered the tax so that you had the least possible negative effects, but at the same time a fair and good system is not against me. And I am listening, as the representative said, to good advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1477	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1482	From one of Europe’s poorest countries, Norway has become one of the richest. The oil has contributed to the rapid development of our coastal communities from fishing communities to a solid yard and petroleum industry along with a state-of-the-art furniture industry. Norwegian workers and business owners have taken the opportunities and contributed strongly to the welfare society that we have today. International development will continue at a raging pace, and the Norwegian welfare society is now being challenged in the so-called wave of older people, in strong competition with the new economies of Eastern Europe and Asia and with other nations' targeted focus on innovation. The future of Norway as a value-creating nation will depend on a strong commitment to education, research, innovation and entrepreneurship. It seems that today’s government forgets that the values created in Norwegian business are involved in determining the level of welfare of the country. Norway needs to be freed from the government's cutting edge in research, innovation and development. The right will once again take the opportunity to remind the Government of Stoltenberg that it is essential that both entrepreneurs and existing companies are given the opportunity to drive innovation and create safe jobs and values for the future once the oil ends. This requires good general framework conditions, with targeted focus on transport, research and development and, in particular, growth-promoting tax relief. It was a pleasure to be able to participate in the event Creator Power and experience a prize drink for creative businesses from all over the country. Especially nice was it to experience that the companies in More and Romesdal took home two prizes. It is therefore less pleasant to experience that the government is failing Norwegian furniture companies and designers who have previously won several design prizes. The furniture industry, Norway’s largest design industry, is still struggling with the international financial crisis. They are disappointed that the government is running away from its promises to follow up the Innovation Furniture programme, which has been a national pilot in Innovation Norway's work on national innovation systems and clusters. With this, the government allows the industry to sail its own seas, by providing on board a programme that has led to the innovation and internationalisation of the Norwegian furniture industry and has helped many small and medium-sized enterprises to gain important leverage in order to compete in a tough international market in design and innovation. This case again illustrates what is the government's biggest problem in industrial policy. There will be big words, but get concrete action. With this case the government received a number of firm proposals on the table, but rejected all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1493	Let me first apologize that I was injured to make a proposal in my previous post that it was unnecessary to promote, as far as I understood. I have not been here so long that I have understood all the rules of the game, but a good proposal cannot be promoted too often, I assume. So to the Council of State mentioning the research budget: I mentioned in my post that it was the weakest in ten years. That's not my statement. It is a statement from the head of the research at NIFU STEP that has analysed the research budgets on behalf of the Evening Post in recent years, and that said it to the newspaper when they had a larger mention of the research budget for 2011. The weakest thing in ten years, he said. How could he say that? Well, because it's the first ten-year research budget that has a real downturn. We can't even think about how many nominal dollars are used. That's the real heads that matter. I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Industry too agrees. This has been a predictable debate, I think, on an important topic, such as innovation. In the right, we're going to work on this topic. We even have our own innovation selection under the direction of the big group, and it's very exciting to get involved in this field. Innovation policy is a new policy area in Norway, which has largely only been focused on the last ten years, so there is no doubt much to work on. Then it has been stressed by several speakers from the government parties that there is a great deal of agreement on this field, that there was a great deal of consensus in the committee, etc. – almost a touching consensus. But I think it is a seeming consensus, because when you go below the level of celebration – innovation is a great concept to use in many such speeches – and look at the concrete proposals and concrete measures that can be implemented to strengthen innovation, the disagreement quickly becomes apparent. There may be a lot of reasons for that, but at least we on the Right are concerned not only with using innovation in party speeches, but actually also with making concrete proposals to improve innovation. Looking at international developments and comparisons between countries, which have been referred to earlier in the debate, there is no doubt that Norway is going wrong. It's going wrong! We must be able to have greater ambitions for Norway than the government shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1504	Governments are capable of not responding to the replies they get, for example. on taxes and charges. Of course, for most enterprises — especially small and medium-sized enterprises — taxes and taxes are important for survival. I said in my previous post that many become entrepreneurs because they want to create something. That's good, but there must be an economy at the bottom. This is why, among other things: taxes on wealth on working capital a heavy burden on many enterprises with a high need for buildings and machinery. The same applies to the inheritance tax, for some heirs of businesses, to take over the inheritance tax in order to take over what may have been created by several generations. You may not want to sit in the situation that you have to borrow money at just the inheritance fee. Therefore, taxes and duties and their level are important in order to increase innovation in Norway. In order to get good welfare, you have to have something to tax, and if you are taxing the whole business, the total tax revenue is going to be low.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox So we go to case no. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1130]] Perhaps someone will pick up the councillor Erik Solheim into the hall? He just went out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1530	When I was a little late, it was with a few hopes to give the Storting a better answer to a question that comes later today. Let me go to climate policy. There are three broad trends in the global climate picture that occur simultaneously, as I see it. One is that international global climate negotiations are moving too slowly ahead. The second is that very many countries take strong, significant steps in their countries of origin. The third is that climate change impacts report more and more, as we had to expect in line with climate science's forecasts. No one can establish a one-to-one relationship between climate change and natural disasters, but we see more and more of exactly what we had to expect. A huge flood has ruined life and had enormous consequences for 20 million people in Pakistan. In China, dramatic drought has been seen — up to 6 degrees warmer than normal in Yunnan in the southern part of the country. I have to say that I was quite surprised to visit Burma myself – which is a country that we all know has significant challenges in other areas – and see how much interest and attention in climate change was there. We see in parts of Africa more prolonged drought. So we have to be able to expect more intense extremes. Food safety and water supply are at stake. Millions of people can get home and land destroyed by floods, droughts, landslides and forest fires. I believe that now is the time for those who believed that global, man-made warming was a research misunderstanding. For poor countries and people who notice the effects directly on the body, climate change is a significant alarming reality, and we can't wait to take steps to reduce these problems, waiting for it to be 100 pst. consensus in science. As long as a dwindling majority of the world's scientists feel there is reason to call an alarm, any insurance analysis will indicate that we are taking action. That part of us would like to think of some local heating in Oslo just these days, is another matter. It's the global warming we're fighting, not the current room. Copenhagen took the belief that a comprehensive, binding agreement would see the day's light overnight. I think the possibilities for it were exaggerated then, too, but at least there is a broad international consensus that we won't get one meeting where all the questions will be solved. But we have to build climate regimes stone on stone, floor by floor, but that's not different from how the international disarmament regimes are, as the international human rights regimes or international trade regimes have been built through many meetings and through individual elements of construction that together form a fundamental architecture for humanity. That's how we also have to think about the climate area. That doesn't mean we have time. Time is short, and we have to act now. The direction must be clear, and Cancún must become an important part of this construction work. While we see strong signs of climate change, we also see that very many countries are doing strong things at home. At least it was a strong experience for me last week to visit Bangladesh – the most vulnerable area on the globe – where 20 million people will have to move only at half a metre of sea level. It's also one of the most cycloneous areas. I visited a village called Kukri Mukri – not a chef’s monk, but Kukri Mukri – where the inhabitants have taken the matter in their own hands. With the support of the authorities and with the support of non-governmental organisations, they have built a comprehensive network of cyclone protection, i.e.: a rich man's house, a school or a local town hall is built in such a way that there may also be protection in the case of a cyclone. What's absolutely certain is that if you had a similar network of cyclone protection, for example. in Burma, before the cyclone Nargis two years ago, tens of thousands, perhaps as many as a hundred thousand human lives, would have been saved. People wouldn't have saved all their assets, but their lives would have been saved with such a network. This shows that a country as poor as Bangladesh is not sitting and waiting, but acting. In India, I met Jairam Ramesh, Indian Environment Minister, who said India must "disconnect" – that is the expression he used. By that he believed that India cannot sit and wait for an international climate agreement, but must initiate all its actions now, at its own cost, because it serves India, and because he knows that India and South Asia are the most vulnerable continent in the event of climate change. In China, environmental technologies are rapidly developing. Brazil has taken great steps in the rainforest area. So it's happening incredibly much and of course a whole lot in European countries. The main reason why we must nevertheless strive for a network that leads us to a broad international climate agreement is that it is the only thing that can ensure the long-term predictability of market players and of those who want to develop technology – that they know what they can count on and deal with in the years to come, and that it will therefore get the drive towards the business that we are totally dependent on. The mandate of the Norwegian positions on the international climate negotiations is based on the Climate Change Agreement in Stortinget of 17 January 2008. These positions have not been changed. If we are to be able to prevent the most dangerous climate change, the global temperature increase must be kept below 2 degrees Celsius in relation to pre-industrial levels. Such a reduction in temperature increases requires global greenhouse gas emissions to reach their peak in a few years and then to be reduced. The longer we wait to cut emissions, the greater the emissions cut, we have to implement later to achieve the two-degree target. Greater emissions cuts mean greater costs for society. A Norwegian public study on climate change adaptation, which we presented just a few weeks ago, also shows that Norway will have significant costs of adapting to climate change, despite the fact that, according to international studies, we are perhaps the most climate-resilient society of all, due to a well-functioning state and our nature. Economic pressures are increasing in poorer and more vulnerable countries. Norway will work for results in Cancún, which provides a framework for a comprehensive legally binding climate agreement under the UNFCCC. Firstly, such an agreement must be ambitious enough to meet the two-degree objective. Secondly, the agreement must contain concrete commitments on emission reductions for both developed and developing countries. Thirdly, the agreement must lay down rules for improved measurement, reporting and control of emission reductions. In addition, an agreement will need to include reduction of deforestation in developing countries, climate adaptation, funding, technology transfer, capacity building and management of unintended impacts of climate action. Such a broad international agreement, a network of agreements which in total have the same consequences, will provide the predictability that business needs to drive technology change quickly enough. The Copenhagen Conference of the Parties in December 2009 resulted in the so-called Copenhagen Agreement. It is not a binding agreement under the UNFCCC, but it gives decisive political signals in key areas of negotiation. For the first time, the two-degree target was identified in international, important documents, and the agreement provided a framework for emission reductions in all countries. Following the Copenhagen agreement, a number of countries have notified targets and emission reduction measures to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. These objectives are important first steps. Overall, they are far from sufficient to meet the two-degree objective. Nevertheless, Norway believes that it is important that we work to ensure that these objectives and measures are formally anchored under the UNFCCC. Such anchoring provides predictability and ensures compliance with the reduction targets. At the same time, we have to say that the level of ambition is too low, and we have to add up to a process where ambitions can increase over time. The Copenhagen Agreement also included commitments to finance climate action in developing countries, more frequent reporting and control of measures in developing countries, the establishment of a green fund and a technology mechanism, the priority of climate adaptation and the importance of measures to reduce deforestation in developing countries. Norway will be in favour of a decision in Cancún which provides the basis for the conclusion of a legally binding agreement within a specified time limit, preferably in South Africa in 2011. A legally binding agreement will provide for a anchoring of obligations which means greater certainty that countries will comply with the agreement. A number of countries want such formalisation. The main reason why it is difficult to reach an international commitment agreement is that three different policy fields meet at the same time. Firstly, it is about climate and environmental policies; secondly, it is about restructuring the world economy; and thirdly, it is about balancing international power relations in a new multipolar age. In reality, this is the first large, wide-ranging negotiation process that humanity is carrying out in a time when it is not enough with one or two countries to get a meaningful international agreement, but where an international agreement needs to balance a situation where the United States remains the world's most important power, China is the world's fastest growing power and of great global importance, where India, Brazil and a number of other new powers come up, where Europe's interests are strong, and where Europe has taken the leading role – and where Europe cannot in any way dictate the world situation. Of course, a series of other countries also have interests in this situation. The increased wealth in the world has led to increased production of goods, more transport and greater energy consumption. All this in turn has given rise to increased greenhouse gas emissions. All developing countries believe that it is natural for them to share in the same prosperity development as the rich countries. The emissions do not come from a peripheral location, but they come from the engine itself in the economy, largely from the production of energy. The requirements for emission reductions therefore deeply influence the economy and development of each country and therefore affect the central national interests both in terms of the economy and in terms of balancing global power conditions. Climate negotiations are about power relations between countries – the competitive environment and who has international influence. A good example of this is how issues of trade discrimination can easily be raised in the context of climate negotiations. The United States and China are undoubtedly the two most important actors. Even though the United States is committed to limiting its emissions by 17 pst. in 2020, compared with 2005 levels, there is little doubt that the US position has deteriorated. This is because the whole world knows that they have not put in place the necessary national legislation to achieve this goal – although no one is in any doubt about the Obama Administration's desire to implement it, nor their obligations on the promises given. We have to assume that the United States will oppose a legally binding agreement in Cancún before they themselves stand on a safer home ground. In this situation, the most central requirement of the United States is that China must have as clear obligations as themselves. Given the difficult domestic political situation in the United States, it is difficult to see that the United States has something to gain from being modest with China. This would require political courage. China is similar to the United States, in the sense that they also oppose a legally binding agreement, and that the domestic opinion of China will not be admirable to the one granting concessions to the United States either. China also considers that it is not reasonable for them to have the same obligations as the United States, pointing to the fact that China's per capita emissions are about one-fifth of the U.S. Now, fortunately, a lot is happening in China in the climate field, despite the fact that climate negotiations are not moving as fast as we want. China is planning a stronger use of instruments in the years that are coming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. They just don't want the international community to have a strong influence on what China itself is doing. Let's not forget that the idea of state sovereignty is much stronger both in China, India and the United States than it is in Europe. There, these countries have seen roughly the perception of state sovereignty that Europe had several decades ago, and the EU has, of course, been a formidable factor in reducing the perception of state sovereignty’s overriding importance in Europe. The climate change change in China is demanding, but going fast. New positive signals are coming to light on what China wants to do — at the latest, they want to introduce a quota system, and they want a province as a test model for such an allowance system. It is also interesting that China so strongly invites Norway as a partner to develop systems at home. There is, of course, something Norway would like to participate in and cooperate with China on. 14 days ago, Fatih Birol, chief economist at the International Energy Agency, was in Oslo. He talked about the global energy picture 20–30 years in advance and about which countries will shape this development. His message was very clear. He said, we have to stop talking about China and India. We need to talk about China, China, China and India. I think this is somewhat exaggerated, but it still points to the central importance China undoubtedly has in terms of both climate and energy policy and the world's power situation in the 21st century. China has recently recognised that it is now the world’s largest emitter. Fortunately, it is reassuring that China is conscious of its new situation and is investing massively in clean energy. In 2009, China invested about 35 billion. US dollars in clean energy, significantly more than the United States, which invested 19 billion. US Dollar. The one that opens today's Financial Times will see a difficult article about Chinese investment in renewable energy. It is apparent from this that in the second quarter of 2010, China invested 60 billion. Norwegian kr in windmills, and that half of the world’s windmill market in the second quarter was developed in China. So it says something about China's importance both as an emission nation and as a solution to the problem. China is also making ambitious plans to increase its own energy efficiency. By the end of 2010, China shall reduce its energy intensity by 20 pst. from 2005. Each province and city of China is required to contribute. Governors, rapporteurs and managers are all held responsible for achieving their objectives. Also India announces new measures. They have just announced the introduction of a tax on coal, both domestically produced and imported. The Prime Minister has appointed one of India's most experienced diplomats as his special advisor in the coal field to clean up coal. The purpose of this levy is to charge fossil energy, but above all to provide income for an energy fund. The Fund shall finance research and development of cleaner energy technologies in India. With a charge of around DKK 6 per tonne, total revenues in 2010–2011 are estimated at 3 billion. kr. At the same time as the rapid, positive development of domestic China and India, the EU is also trying to be more offensive. There is no doubt that the EU's international diplomatic position was weakened in Copenhagen, and the EU is concerned not to have a repetition of that situation. They have spent a lot of time rebuilding and reinventing the leading role of the EU, which undoubtedly was one of the major global blocs that pushed the global climate agenda towards Copenhagen. Among other central developing countries, we see that Brazil, with its great commitment to forest conservation, also plays an important role. And South Africa, which is to host the Durban Conference in 2011, works thoroughly and systematically with emission reductions and is driving internationally. Let me also mention that a number of small developing countries, along with some smaller developed countries such as Norway, have joined forces in the so-called Cartagena dialogue – there are also some major countries with them – which are an informal group based on the city of Cartagena in Colombia, to look at how small, progressive countries, both developing countries and developed countries, can push forward an agenda in climate negotiations. There have been so-called international doubts as to whether the UN track can lead to solutions to something as complicated as climate. Let me then mention the encouraging event in Nagoya, Japan, where it was also predicted that it was impossible. But after six years of intense negotiations, the world through the UN succeeded in making very good, important agreements in the field of natural diversity, and it was based on the fact that no country could get 100 pst. What they wanted, but all the countries were satisfied with getting 80 pst. of the thing that was the goal. On that basis, compromises were found. So Nagoya can inspire further progress also in terms of climate. To move forward in the fight against climate change, Cancún needs to deliver concrete results. There is relatively broad agreement on the elements to be included in a balanced package in Cancún. Norway believes that it is important to include commitments on emission reductions for countries. In addition, we need decisions on reducing deforestation in developing countries, technology transfer from one country to another and a framework for climate adaptation. It is also necessary to establish a new climate fund and a process to make that climate fund operational. Capacity building will have to be part of all these decisions. An improved measurement, reporting and verification framework for emission control measures must also be in place. A balanced outcome in Cancún means different things for different countries. Developing countries place particular emphasis on financing, technology, adaptation and greater emission reductions for industrialised countries. It requires a new commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol. Industrialised countries, for their part, require emission reductions in developing countries, reporting and monitoring efforts, and for the United States in particular control and reporting efforts in China and partly in India. A realistic outcome must balance this. In addition, there must be a balance between commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and a new agreement for developing countries and the United States. A good result in Cancún will be an important step towards a broader agreement in all these areas in the future. The Kyoto Protocol is currently the only climate agreement containing numerical and legally binding emission reduction obligations. Most developed countries, with the exception of the United States, have emission obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. Developing countries are also parties to the Kyoto Protocol but do not have emission reduction obligations. Furthermore, they are linked to the Protocol through, inter alia, the green development mechanism and the Adaptation Fund; However, the Kyoto Protocol covers only one third of the world’s total greenhouse gas emissions. If we are to comply with the two-degree objective, the protocol must be complemented by an agreement covering a greater share of global emissions. Furthermore, today’s emissions commitments in Kyoto only apply until 2012. New emission obligations under the Kyoto Protocol are therefore negotiated for the period after 1 January 2013, in parallel with a broad legal agreement for all emissions under the UNFCCC. A balanced outcome in Cancún will lie in what is needed to achieve three elements at the same time: a new commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol, emission reductions in the United States and emission reductions in developing countries, and we believe that the major, fast-growing developing countries, not the very poorest and least. A solution to the negotiations under the Kyoto Protocol is therefore of great importance for the overall outcome of the negotiations. I just spoke to our dealers in Cancún after the first day, and it is clear that the Kyoto Protocol will be absolutely crucial to the extent to which we can find solutions in Cancún. Several countries with emission obligations under the Kyoto Protocol have declared that they will not be able to enter a new commitment period without sufficient certainty of the outcome in terms of commitments for the United States and large emitters. Especially Japan and partly Russia are negative to a new period under the Kyoto Protocol, and want one joint international agreement for all countries. Canada is also closely linked to the United States, which is not a party to the Protocol. This situation creates specific challenges in terms of achieving a solution that includes the Kyoto Protocol. The EU is essential for a new commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol. Norway has worked closely with the EU in the negotiations. The EU has given clear signals that a new period under the Protocol must be matched by adequate commitments, ambitious targets in developing countries and the United States. A possible outcome in Cancún could be a politically binding decision in which the countries that currently have emission obligations under the Kyoto Protocol signal their willingness to move forward in a new commitment period under the Protocol. It can then be assumed that this will be followed up with a framework for an agreement on emission reductions for the United States and large emitters outside Kyoto. Norway has long been a champion of the Kyoto Protocol. In Cancún, Norway will be a driver for the continuation of the legislation and mechanisms established under Kyoto, including: rules for encroachment in forests. As part of a satisfactory overall outcome, Norway will join the 2nd commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol. Norway already registered under Copenhagen, i.e. 30 pst. emission reductions in 2020 and a willingness to go up to 40 pst. of course, if it is part of a positive international agreement. Norway is an active player in climate negotiations. We're boxing over our weight class, as the Americans like to express it. However, a small country has the most influence if we focus our resources on areas where Norway can contribute specifically from our background. Prior to the Copenhagen meeting last year, I explained that Norway in the negotiation process places particular emphasis on the following areas – not that they are necessarily the most important in themselves, but there are areas where Norway can make a significant difference. It's reduced deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries financing climate action emissions from international shipping capture and storage of CO2 In addition, Norway in Cancún will, of course, focus on progress in other areas, such as binding emission reductions and improved frameworks for measurement, reporting and verification of emission reductions. We will also promote the role and gender perspective of women in the negotiations. Without stopping deforestation, it will be very difficult to solve the climate challenge. At the same time, this is one of the climate measures that have most other positive gains in addition. It contributes to the preservation of natural diversity and contributes to the security of living conditions for populations living in and dependent on forests. 50-70 pst. of the natural diversity of the world is found in tropical forests. Indonesia alone represents 10 pst. of the land-based natural diversity of the world. It's about orangutans and gorillas, it's about jaguars, and it's about an infinity of insects, small creeps, ants, spiders and butterflies -- animals we like and don't like. There is an incredible variation in the rainforests, and by putting in the right climate action we also get the right natural diversity. We have to see these things as one whole. Both natural diversity and climate provide the basis for our forest initiative. Through the government’s climate and forest initiative, Norway has established itself as the leading industrial country actor in this field. Norway has been at the heart of the development of multilateral efforts in this area, both through the UN organisations, the World Bank and the African Bank. Norway has also been a driver for coordination and cooperation between these actors. We have contributed greatly to the development of cooperation between the World Bank and the United Nations on climate and forest in many contexts as an example of cooperation in the international community. Norway was also central to the establishment of a global climate and forest partnership at the Oslo Climate and Forest Conference in May. To date, more than 60 countries are actively involved in climate and forest interventions, either by taking care of their own forests or by making financial contributions to this work. Turning a development path based on deforestation has considerable costs and requires extensive efforts from developing countries. In recognition of this, Norway has also established large-scale partnerships with three key forest countries, Brazil, Indonesia and Guyana, in addition to multilateral commitments within the World Bank and the United Nations. Brazil has come the farthest. The emission reductions in Brazilian Amazon due to deforestation may be 70 pst. in seven years and is undoubtedly the largest single measure put in place by a country across the globe to reduce climate change. But Guyana and Indonesia are also on the way with major programmes. The model for all countries is the same: first a period of systems building up, measuring systems building up, capacity building, then moving over time to performance-based payment based on internationally verified emission reductions. What that actually means, I can exemplify from Brazil, where I visited one of the provinces that has completely stopped deforestation. In practice, it means creating different forms of industry based on forest resources, but without destroying it. They have a condom factory, so you can get a little joy out of environmental policy too! It was a place where furniture and flooring had been laid, and there had been massive efforts on education to build a service sector that was in line with the forest. So this was the area in Brazil that just 20 years ago was world-renowned after the rubber stoppers spokesperson, Chico Mendes, was murdered just in that area, because he stood in the head to preserve the forest and use it in a sensible way. Now his disciples rule the province and have managed to achieve formidable results there – in the Acre province – but Brazil has done the same thing nationally. What we see globally is that political leadership is crucial. President Lula of Brazil, President Yudhoyono of Indonesia and President Jagdeo of Guyana have taken the lead in their countries. The process of reducing deforestation is under way with Norway as a support player. Guyana we have chosen as a partner, because it is right to introduce also a country that has historically had a very low level of deforestation. Otherwise, it would easily have the effect that when Brazil and other South American countries drastically reduce their deforestation, a shift of deforestation to other countries can be achieved with a very low level. In Guyana, the problem is different: there is not a reduction in historical deforestation as in Indonesia and Brazil, but to stay at a historically low level of deforestation. Forest measures in developing countries were among the most advanced areas of the Copenhagen Climate Change Conference. We almost reached the goal of a decision-making text that could have established a forest mechanism already then. However, in the autumn we have seen that some countries have challenged the agreement from Copenhagen. The main motive seems to be to block forest progress in order to push forward decisions they want in other areas — not that they themselves are against forest measures. This again underlines the importance of agreeing on a balanced package in Cancún. Norway will bet everything on getting it done. If we can't do it, of course, we'll continue with a Bush term "Coalition of the Willing" – where land does things without asking the world community for permission. We don't depend on anyone encouraging us to cooperate with Brazil or Indonesia. We're just doing it. Financing climate action in developing countries is crucial in global climate change response efforts. In Copenhagen, there was a breakthrough in strengthening the funding of climate action and a commitment to the creation of the Green Fund was made. In addition, developed countries confirmed a collective short-term financing obligation of up to 30 billion. US dollars total for the period 2010–2012. Norway has reported 3 billion. as the year’s financing under this short-term financing system. In addition, there is a long-term financing obligation with the objective of mobilising 100 billion. US dollars per year by 2020. The Secretary-General of the United Nations set up an advisory group on climate finance in February 2010. The group was commissioned to make proposals on how developed countries can achieve the long-term financing target from Copenhagen. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and Prime Minister Meles Zenawi led this work. The conclusion of the group is that it is demanding, but that it is possible to achieve the goal of mobilising 600 billion. Norwegian Krone for climate action by 2020. This can be done, not by a single measure or a simple mechanism, but by a sum of different mechanisms. The committee advocates that, first, existing schemes, i.e. aid-based support schemes, need to be scaled up. Secondly, new public instruments must be provided, so-called innovative funding mechanisms, and thirdly, it must be made possible for the private sector to contribute to increased investment through green investment in developing countries. An overall conclusion of the group, which had participation from the United States, China, India and a series of other countries, was that an international price of greenhouse gas emissions had to be put in place. Carbon pricing has a double positive effect. It contributes to both country emission reductions and at the same time is a source of funding for climate action in developing countries. In the case of new, public and price-based instruments, the Group points in particular to the following: We need to put in place a system for pricing emissions from international transport, i.e. ships and aeroplanes, and use their revenues for climate action in developing countries. We need to put in place new carbon taxes or quota systems, and we should try to wind up fossil subsidies both in developing countries and gradually in developing countries. In addition, the government has decided that Norway, together with other countries, will work for a possible currency charge for income for global public goods, such as development and climate. The financial sector has benefited from, and at the same time has come under, the financial crisis and will continue to benefit from opportunities provided by globalisation. In the context of the UN General Assembly of the autumn, Norway, together with France, Belgium, Spain, Japan and Brazil, supported a declaration to work on such income charges for development. I have also noted the Nordic Council's call for the governments of the Member States to work towards the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, which we will do. With regard to emissions from international shipping, Norway is working for a new global climate regime to cover both ship and aviation emissions. International shipping emits as much CO2 as Germany and emissions have increased. Our central international role as a major shipping nation enables us to make a strong contribution to the global demand for greenhouse gas emission reductions for shipping. Norway was the first country to put forward a concrete proposal on shipping in the climate negotiations. About 75 pst. World fleet registered in developing countries. In order to ensure that emission reductions are implemented, further follow-up should be carried out by the United Nations Maritime Organisation, as a global regulatory framework can be established for ships also covered by developing countries. The difficulty in this area is quite simply that developing countries require it to be common but differentiated obligations, while I think it is obvious to everyone here that we cannot have different obligations for a Norwegian owned ship registered in developing countries such as Liberia or Bermuda, and a Norwegian owned ship registered in the Norwegian International Ship Register. So we're facing a long and challenging process in this area as well. As regards CO2 capture and storage, Norway has been working for a long time to approve the carbon capture and storage project in developing countries under the Kyoto Protocol’s green development mechanism. It is important both to create economic incentives for projects and legislation that ensure a common and high environmental standard for projects in developing countries. We have also proposed a new mechanism to speed up the storage of CO2 where this is possible, which is particularly important for a number of major industrial sources. Norway has also worked for international capacity building in this area. But at the end of the day, success or failure in carbon capture and storage will depend on whether the developed countries are able to develop the technology and get it down to such a low price that it becomes a technology that the world will demand. Improved measurement, reporting and verification of emission reduction measures is an essential part of a Cancún package. We need to know how large emissions are in order to gain better knowledge of climate change and to combat them more effectively. Industrialised countries report annual emissions. Under the Kyoto Protocol, we also have strict rules on how to settle the accounts in relation to our commitments. Norway believes that the United States, which is outside the Kyoto Protocol, should comply with equivalent strict international rules to demonstrate compliance with its obligations under a new agreement. Norway will work for this in Cancún. For developing countries, we do not have regular reporting of the same quality today, and we therefore do not know enough about the actual emissions in countries like China, India, Brazil and South Africa. Therefore, rules on reporting and control of emissions in developing countries are an important question of negotiation. It is also a difficult question, because the large developing countries are very opposed to the degree of transparency of national conditions. There has been a positive development in the negotiations on reporting and verification in the last round of negotiations. In particular, under Jairam Ramesh, India has been a positive driver for reaching agreement on schemes that address both the concerns of developing countries and can provide reliable and robust information. There is therefore hope that we can move forward towards solving this. Let me say at the end that we cannot stand on the sidelines and wait for the negotiations to lead to an agreement. In the meantime, we need to take many initiatives to move forward. Many such initiatives have been taken in recent years and let me mention a few. I have already mentioned the large forest conference in Oslo, where a partnership for forest action in developing countries was established. There are now promises of 4 billion. US dollars in the period 2010–2012. Most recently, during his recent visit to Indonesia, President Obama expressed strong support for the Norwegian-Indonesian initiative in this area. Germany and South Africa, for their part, have taken initiatives in terms of emission reduction and measurement, reporting and verification of emissions. This is an informal forum of interested countries, including Norway, sharing experience on how to plan and implement emission reductions. The World Bank has established the so-called Market Readiness Partnership, which is an initiative to provide assistance to developing and using market carbon pricing mechanisms in developing and developing developing developing developing developing developing developing developing developing developing developing developing countries. The countries for which support is relevant through this partnership have different assumptions, but there is a partnership in which both the United States, China and many others, including Norway, participate and where developing countries can gradually learn from each other and hopefully adapt the systems and develop regional markets. One of the objectives of the partnership is to identify the extent to which countries are ready to introduce carbon markets and other mechanisms and to build the capacity needed to do so. Furthermore, the African Union and the African Development Partnership, NEPAD, have recently adopted a pan-African climate programme for agriculture, emission reductions and climate adaptation. This Framework Programme shall be operationalised together with selected development partners such as the World Bank, FAO and the EU Commission. Norway is actively participating in this process together with African countries. Let me also show that the Nordic Council of Ministers has taken initiatives on sectorial climate mechanisms. A Nordic adhoc group for global climate negotiations has been set up, in which a preparatory study has been initiated on how this can work in practice. This study will analyse how developed countries can contribute to emission reduction projects in specific sectors of developing countries. The initiative is fully in the start-up phase and can only be seen as the beginning of an investigation project. Countries such as Vietnam and Peru are among the countries concerned, but a number of other countries have also indicated an interest in participating in this. Finally, the Norwegian positions in the international climate negotiations have not changed. They are based on previously agreed positions through the climate agreement and are thoroughly explained in the Stortinget also earlier. Although we will not have a legally binding agreement in place in Cancún, Norway will work actively to achieve as much as possible to provide the basis for a comprehensive binding agreement in the future, preferably in South Africa in 2011. As part of this, Norway in Cancún will give priority to ensuring a decision on forest measures in developing countries within former Norwegian positions, although a number of other issues, such as: long-term funding, not clarified. We'll go very easily after everything we can do, because it's a selection of areas where there's really international consensus. What we should be able to achieve in Cancún is simply to formulate what there is global consensus about, get it down on paper and stamp it, and then move on in other areas. If countries abandon the idea that everything depends on everything, it's possible. We need concrete results on the table now. The best thing we can do is work for results that can build stone on an international agreement at a later stage and that further support the process of international climate negotiations. Finally, I would also like to warn against any idea that, pending international climate-negotiable results, we are going to reduce emissions in individual countries. Of course, the government insists on the climate agreement that we should reduce by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes in Norway by 2020. We will present a Climate Communication next year on how these objectives can be achieved, and will engage in dialogue with the Storting on the basis of that Climate Communication. The world doesn't have time to wait. As I said, fortunately, a series of positive initiatives are being taken in a number of countries, and countries say that they will not let their actions wait for an international agreement, but will act now. Nothing will be better than getting an international race to develop and implement climate-friendly technology between countries. As it is now, both Europe and the United States face the challenge of perhaps more happening on other continents, and if we don't also pair our legs quickly, we can get stuck in the international race. The world's greatest demand is global political leadership. We need leadership in non-governmental organisations. We need leadership in business. We need leadership in nations. And we need global leadership. Norway will contribute everything we can to ensuring global leadership, and fortunately, political leadership is a renewable resource that comes over and over again, and we will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1707	Under the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a short comment round be opened limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, a final statement from the Council of State. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1710	There's a huge gap between the expectations the world had before the Copenhagen Summit last year and the expectations that you now have of what could come out of the Cancún summit. Last year we saw a massive political mobilization. Never before have more heads of state been sitting in the same room, and there were great expectations of what kind of results could be achieved in a few days in Copenhagen. Then the scholars have discussed a lot and are still fighting about whether the fasit after Copenhagen was a failure or milestone. The truth may be somewhere in between. But the situation we're in now is at least that the heads of state are superior to talking down the expectations of the Cancún Summit. And when true, it's hard to be very optimistic about the situation we're up in now. Last year there was a review tone at the climate summit waiting for Obama's climate law. It was perfectly understood that Obama and the United States were not ready to take on big commitments yet, but that there would be new legislation in place at home. Now we know that the law doesn't matter. There have also been intermediate choices in the United States that have not worked positively on this, and it will probably be a long time before such a kind of bill comes up again in the United States. There's also a strong tone between China and the United States. We saw that in its full breadth after the last negotiating meeting before Cancún, which was taking place in China. The United States is quite categorical about not being willing to spend a lot of money on the table until China takes on clear commitments. China points to the historical responsibility of the West, I would rightfully say, and will not have legally binding claims. So it's clear that this situation is also now blocking solutions to lighter issues, such as: forest, for which Norway is concerned. It is exciting that Norway, with its negotiating mandate, will try to play a role. In essence, this is largely a matter of lack of trust. The process requires intense trust building. That is where Norway's focus must lie, and our negotiating mandate provides the basis for that. Norway has made solid contributions before. The billions spent on the table at the Bali Summit to the rainforest showed a real willingness to pay for rapid emission cuts. It was important for the mood to continue in the negotiations. The funding proposal presented by Norway together with Mexico in Copenhagen became important. After all, the Copenhagen Summit agreed on an ambition to mobilise hundreds of billions of dollars annually for climate adaptation/climate reduction in developing countries. Jens Stoltenberg, as the Minister was in the office, led a group after that, together with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, who was to look at how this money is to be obtained. They have provided their report, and it has become an important reference document in Cancún. That's very good. So there's been a lot of focus on emissions cuts, but these hundreds of billions are also going to be used for climate adaptation, and that's important. Climate change is a reality. The poor are hit hardest by both floods and droughts. We already have more climate refugees in the world than refugees from war and armed conflicts. Here the money must quickly be placed on the table. I want to specifically mention children, who are hit extra hard by climate change. The rights of children must be raised in the texts relating to adaptation, in the same way as we promote indigenous peoples and women. Following the Copenhagen Summit, countries have notified targets and measures. That's good, but this bottom-up approach will never give us enough emission reductions to reach the two-degree target. We have to assume the amount of emissions that is actually needed – and distribute them in a binding agreement. That's Norway's stated goal, although we see that there's a hard way there. It is also important to set a deadline, preferably in South Africa. Many are now talking about alternative ways to reach an agreement. The consensus principle has been strongly challenged, and it is impossible to imagine that 193 countries will be involved in all negotiations. Parallel negotiations on individual themes in groups and countries, several bilateral agreements, etc. is absolutely necessary. But at the same time, I would like to stress that we must not lose sight of the UN trail. These agreements must be building blocks in a global agreement, because the legitimacy of the UN process – with all the countries represented – is at stake. Negotiations on forest measures are one of the few points of light. We very much hope that we will reach a final agreement on this in Cancún. Norway has had a driving role, and that role is more important than ever that we retain.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1738	I am pleased that the Council of State also chose to come to Stortinget to provide an information before he travels to the climate negotiations in Cancún. It has been a little special to observe that he has had press conferences, meeting with the NUPI and meeting with the environmental movement without himself taking the initiative to get to the Stortinget. I hope that the Stortinget is the first thing to go to and talk to on the next occasion, so that you can anchor the work that the government will do on behalf of Norway, in climate negotiations in the future. It is also important to anchor what you do when you run a sample in the United Nations system. When the Prime Minister has contributed and created expectations about different funding methods to stimulate climate action or adaptation in the world’s poor countries, it is expected globally that Norway, which has the sample leader, is likely to follow up the measures proposed by the sample. When none of these measures have been discussed at Stortinget, nor was it a topic when the climate agreement was concluded, I believe that this government has tended to oblige Norway to do more than what the Storing is automatically willing to say yes to, although the government has a majority in this room. That's why I think the government would have done well to discuss more with the Storting before going out and committing itself to saving the world. At the same time, there are really good notes presented here by the Minister for the Environment. It's a bit of the same thread that we've heard before, after the Copenhagen agreement. One is more sober and takes on more of the realities and complexity that are in the world. I think that's important if you're going to succeed. I've said in the past that we had a naïve approach in the Copenhagen process, trying to overcome each other, if you cut 30 pst. or 40 pst. in Norway, believing that other countries would more or less automatically raise their bids. Now it's not a theme, fortunately. On the part of the Minister for the Environment, emphasis is placed on the conditions of power in terms of security of energy supply, population growth and economic growth, where CO2 measures are deeply involved and can create challenges. It is easy to ignore it in an energy-rich and prosperous country such as Norway, but in countries that have hundreds of millions of people living in extreme poverty, it is actually an important clarification – for example, if you want to. to build two coal-fired power plants to improve energy supply, or to build one and try to get CO2 treatment? For the poor, if they continue to live in extreme poverty, there is little joy in clean coal plants. There are difficult priorities that are easy for Norway to advise on, but it is not as easy for those seeking to balance the difficult conditions. So expectations are lower, both because it is a reality in the situation, but also a necessity. I think it is important that we, as politicians, promote realistic goals, because it creates confidence among the population when you can show that you have actually achieved one goal before you go on, even if that goal is more visionary than you would like. I also believe that the framework for this meeting in Cancún is actually better than what we take over, because it was almost created a Klondike-vote in Copenhagen – and you could not possibly recover. I walked down there last year, and environmental protectors dressed like chickens and turkeys, and Buddhists who used the opportunity to do anything but promote climate, created a stressful situation, I would claim. And with all due respect for the working capacity of the Minister for the Environment: With so many groups expecting to get presentations along the way, it has to take away the energy that could be used to negotiate with their counterparts and co-workers. I think that the framework for doing a thorough job is getting better in Cancún, and that you can get beyond what you're walking around today and fear. In that case, it will be positive. Despite the fact that we in the Progress Party do not always – I can be sure – share the Environment Minister's scenario understanding, we agree that CO2 should be cut. The Progress Party has said several times in Stortinget – and we have proposed it – that it is important to establish an international agreement to cut CO2 emissions. And, as the Council of State says, it's important because you're supposed to be leading where, but also for business, it's important to have clear framework conditions. For Norwegian business there will be an advantage if one obtains a clarification of CO2 costs and technology requirements. Because we are far ahead and will be able to claim in competition, but also help other countries to move forward. Then there will always be a discussion about the balance between national and global cuts, cut now and research for cut later. But that debate is part of a different occasion than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1770	Let me first thank the Council of State for the presentation. We greatly appreciate him coming to the Stortinget and explaining to us, and in the case of international climate negotiations, I think, as Bjørn Eidsvåg sang, that he is «a mere man who does as best he can». It's at home it fails, but internationally we like what we hear. Obviously, it's very complicated to negotiate in a situation where the person who wants the least decides the most. That is why I believe that the strategy adopted by the Council of State, with a stone-on-stone approach, is wise and sensible. I'll still get into a couple of points. Governments were funding. Norway has a leading role, the Prime Minister heads the group which, among other things, have worked on various funding measures. However, Norway cannot be completely indifferent to which measures are ultimately selected. Of course, optimal is a price of carbon that reflects the cost of society. That's what we're trying to address, that it's too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly, but in the meantime there are other mechanisms. The Stoltenberg Group has, among others: the proposed tax on financial transactions and currency speculation, i.e. a Tobin tax. It is in accordance with the Soria Moria Declaration, but I still think it is right from the Right to make it clear that introducing a tax that is justified in the Soria Moria Declaration on preventing a new financial crisis – at least using the justification now from the government – although financial transactions and currency speculation were by no means the cause of the financial crisis, we are sceptical about it. There is a broad consensus that the polluter should pay, and we believe that this is a good principle to underpin any financing mechanism under an international climate agreement. Thus, CO2 taxes and quota systems in different variants will be logical sources of funding. Taxes on currency transactions that have nothing to do with CO2 should not have them. So it could be nice in particular if the Council of States could explain a little bit about which of the different proposals proposed by the Stoltenberg Group, which the government believes will be the most optimal, and which we are working to achieve the final result. As I was talking about, I think the sector-wide approach to rock building is reasonable, because we can't do the best for the good enemy. The goal of a comprehensive agreement must be firm, but we need a more pragmatic approach to move forward. This is based on the sectors where we have the most to contribute. State councils mentioned deforestation. It is very positive and can form the basis for further sector work, including international shipping. It could be nice if the Council of State could comment on what initiatives Norway has taken there, and how far we have come, if there is any progress from last year. I have mentioned funding, but not least this with CCS. There is technology available and should definitely fall within the scope of the green development mechanism. So I think that is a very good initiative, as the Council of State and Norway have on their position list, because it is an area where we can really make a real contribution. So the Council of State has several times said that there is an urgent need to act. We agree on that. Therefore, it would have been nice if the state council were not only the world champion in climate rhetoric, but could also deliver some results at home. We can't wait to act, we have to show that it's possible to combine growth and high living standards with low emissions. Norway is well positioned, with technology, competence and capital to play an important role and actually realise such a society. But then it's urgent to get started, and so far we're going to have spent the same time talking about what actions we're going to put in, like the time we're left to implement them by 2020. Because we have been talking about this since 2005, and there will be no action until 2013, when, hopefully, the Climate Change Communication has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1791	The government's statement reminds us that despite the cold weather, despite the fact that some people are constantly trying to challenge their climate scientists, climate change is the biggest challenge facing the world. There is a broad scientific agreement that we can expect global temperature rise, sea level rise, change in precipitation patterns and wind systems, loss of biological deficiency, and worsening living conditions, especially in the poor part of the world. 70 pst. GHG emissions globally come from energy production and energy use, and we are also told how important it is to reduce the use of energy and produce more renewable energy. To stabilise the climate, global emissions need to be reduced by 60-80 pst. by 2050, according to the Climate Panel. So the frames are fixed from previous discussions, and it now requires innovation and action. The international climate negotiations, including the Cancún meeting, are crucial for reducing global emissions, and Norway is and will be an active partner in international cooperation. Then all countries can rightly claim that their emission is just a smaller part of the total emissions in the world. Therefore, it is crucial that ambitious and long-term international climate agreements are negotiated. Then it is also important that Norway, like a small but prosperous country, is willing to participate for what is worth, that we show action at home, and that we are a clear voice internationally. We have good opportunities to participate in measures and new technology developments that can bring the world closer to a climate solution. We have competence and economic freedom of action that makes us capable of taking on a leadership responsibility, and we manage important resources such as renewable energy, forest resources, land and coastal areas and clean water, which provide ample opportunity to participate. Work towards global warming depends on international agreements to be concluded. International cooperation must be wider, deeper and longer: broader in the sense that all important emissions and emissions sources must be included, deeper in the way that one commits to the emissions targets needed to achieve the two-degree objective, and longer in the way that one must have a long-term perspective on the negotiations. It is important to give clear signals to industry, investors and citizens about the way the world will go forward. Then we all know that the meeting in Cancún will hardly meet these great ambitions, which both the Center Party and the other party in this Chamber have expressed. They expressed ambitions before Cancún is low from many countries. This does not mean, however, that there can be no hope of progress in important areas, as the Council of State has also done well, whether it relates to technology transfer, financing, rainforest or other. In these specific areas Norway can contribute. And we should do that, to the extent that we have the ability to do that, in order to bring forward progress right in these areas. We should also highlight the need for regulation on discards before shipping. There we know that the cooperation that one has through the IMO is important in order to achieve results. We are, as the Council of State was in it, dependent on central countries committing themselves to major emission reductions and opening up control and reporting of them if one is to have an international agreement. The future of the Kyoto Protocol will be important, including for global climate work in the future, as pointed out by the Council of State. It is also interesting to note that in the final report from the High Level Group, one pointed to what can be done with a small charge on currency transactions when it comes to providing funds. There is something the Center Party will support wholeheartedly. The international work on climate change is extensive and extensive. It reminds us that we are a small country in the world, as was once said from this pulpit. There are countries other than our own that become the heavy pieces of climate work. But it also reminds us that a small country, if one is willing, can play a greater role than that country's size attracts, and we think that one should aim for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1810	I would like to thank the Council of State for a realistic presentation, a thorough presentation, a statement that showed the way forward and also addressed the main challenges ahead of the negotiations in Mexico. Governments say that while climate negotiations are taking place, there are three main trends: global international negotiations, important steps in individual countries, but also a growing awareness of climate change in some countries. This is a description that the Christian People's Party is behind. Thus, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State so clearly stresses that ‘we cannot wait to take a step’ in relation to the climate problem. The inauguration shown by the Council of State, I think it is important to take with me in the work of the next few weeks. The Council of State takes a historical look at what happened in Copenhagen in relation to the fact that we did not get into a binding agreement, and that the strategy is now a stone-on-stone construction – or ‘floor-to-floor’, as the Council of State itself said. From the Christian People's Party it is important to stress that we are involved in building stone on stone, but we want everything that is being built up against the UN track. That's where we're gonna end up one day. I am pleased with the impatience expressed by the Council of State in relation to the negotiating meeting he is going to go down to now. He says that ‘Cancún must become an important part of this construction work’. We can discuss for a long time what caused us not to go beyond what we did in Copenhagen, but from the Christian People's Party we have always been clear that there was a crisis of trust between poor and rich countries that was crucial for us not to come any further. The Christian People's Party knows that in the last year you have worked hard on different fronts to build up confidence and trust. We also see that it is reflected in today's presentation. Then our hope is that we have succeeded, so that the negotiations have more confidence as they are now being launched in Mexico. At present, there is one obligatory agreement in this area, and it is the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. The Council of State was concerned that only one third of the greenhouse gas emissions covered by this agreement. That is why it is important for the Christian People's Party to stress that we want to extend this agreement, a new commitment period beyond 2012, and we support the Government and the Council of State and his line of thought about this: we have been champions, but now we are going to be the drivers of a new Kyoto Protocol. I just need a little shorthand inside the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who thought it was naive to point at 30, maybe 40 pst. Cut if we got others with us. I don't feel this is naive. I feel that this is visionary, and it's the necessary grip that we have to take to be with and save our common globe. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the state council's emphasis on the fact that the climate agreement underpins the positions of our Norwegian negotiating delegation. And the climate agreement makes it clear that we're going to do a job outside, and we're going to do a job at home. It's at our job at home that we create our credibility. It is the one who can carry Norway as a leading country in the negotiations that will now take place. That is why we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, wish happiness. We look with excitement until the issues the government will come back to Stortinget with in terms of national climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1836	First, I would like to thank the Minister for a good account. The climate summit in Cancún will probably not lead to a breakthrough for a new climate agreement. But it is crucial for the United Nations process that the two weeks of negotiations deliver in some areas. The most important thing is to lay the groundwork for a new climate agreement that commits. The chance of consensus is probably better in areas such as forest conservation and adaptation to climate change, which many people have been involved in here today. Still, the sum of the emission reductions promised by countries is far too small. The goal is not to exceed a temperature increase of more than 2 degrees, which is what researchers believe the globe can withstand at most without excessive and irreversible consequences. With the emission reductions promised now, the temperature increase is likely to be around. 3.5 degrees. The left is among those who have argued that Norway and other countries with opportunities to act are not leaning back and waiting for decisions in the UN until action is taken to reduce emissions. Most people agree that a decisive solution to climate policy lies in the development, testing and implementation of technology – and that this technology must be applied on a large scale worldwide. But because it's cheaper to pollute, it's late. We also know that we need to raise the volume of climate technology in order for it to be cheap enough for use. The consensus is also strong that the development of climate-friendly technology will be one of Norway’s most important contributions to the climate change struggle. Pending international consensus, we are postponing decisive national action. The UN process has become an excuse for not taking the necessary action in Norway. However, a new climate agreement, all of which is behind, will probably be effective enough to rapidly develop new climate technologies and cut CO2 emissions. The government has postponed the climate notification for over one year and has also delivered two government budgets without a clear plan for reducing emissions and a strategic commitment to climate technology in Norway. Politicians say that the work on climate communication is very demanding. But being united with itself can't be more demanding than getting with China and the United States on an international climate agreement? If Norway wants to be a contributor, we need to develop climate-friendly technology, test it out, put it into use and simply try and fail. By implementing clean-up measures that trigger technological development, we will assist the world in making technology cheaper. This will be a good contribution, both to poor and rich countries. It will cost a little bit more, but the nice thing is that we don't have to wait for every country to agree before anything is done. Few people believe that there will be a legally binding agreement on emissions reductions under the auspices of the United Nations in the coming years. However, this does not mean that it is impossible to reduce emissions or that other agreements and instruments are impossible to reduce emissions. There are many forms of regional and international cooperation between larger and smaller groups — across formal negotiating groups — of industrialised and less industrialised countries, which can continue to reduce emissions. Norway, for example, has significant climate and energy cooperation through development cooperation with, inter alia, the United Kingdom. large emitters such as India, South Africa and Brazil, as the Minister for the Environment has mentioned. Other examples of alliances include Norway and other European countries in order to establish significant technology cooperation. There are many who believe that such forms of cooperation need to be more closely complementary to the UN track. One can see that the various initiatives and forms of cooperation can in the long term be formalised under the UN regime. Since the Bali climate summit two years ago, one of the key issues in the negotiations has been the financing of climate action in developing countries. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has been involved in leading the work of the UN High Level Group on the financing of climate action, and on 5 November this year this group presented a report showing that it was possible to raise up to 100 million. dollars annually by 2020 for climate action in poor countries. Stoltenberg participates even during the second week of the negotiations in Mexico. Only in 2009 fossil energy consumption was subsidized by 312 billion. dollar.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1862	I just want to make a few comments to the representative Borghild Tenden's posts. She called for more speed in environmental technology efforts. It's an area where I've been involved a lot, and I've spent a lot of time on it, so I thought, for the sake of soundness, that I should present some of the investments that are now being made in environmental technology. We've got our own 300 million program in place. kr per year in support of eco-innovation. But it's just a little bit. If a take on what is happening in the Norwegian Research Council, with the Environmental Energy Research Centre, if a take on with a number of other programmes in Innovation Norway, there are in these areas over 1 billion. kr. And then everything that happens through Enova comes along. But then I just want to pick up a point that a very often forgets about investing in climate-friendly technology, in connection with investing in environmentally friendly energy technologies, and that's the investment that the government is now working on, and that we hope to get a say in the Storting, simply to capitalize Statkraft, so that Statkraft can spend 82 billion over a five-year period. on renewable energy. It creates a huge market for environmental technologies and is perhaps one of the biggest levers we can do to strengthen environmental technology and create a market for environmental technologies, both by working here in the country and by working internationally. There really has an active state ownership that takes an enormous amount of weight to promote environmental technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1870	The debate has shown the closest unison agreement on the main lines of the statement I made, and broad support from all the parties of the Storting to all the main lines of the Norwegian positions in front of Cancún – nothing is more pleasing. Any government is most strongly influenced abroad if there is a reasonable consensus at home about what you want. So it's very positive. Let me then try to comment on some of the things that have been said in the debate. I am very pleased with the initiative taken by the Right and the Advance Party to get such an explanation here, but I am just asking for a little clearer signals from the Storting for what you want, for there is nothing I want more than to make these kind of presentations and have a debate on important environmental policy issues. At the same time, on the part of the government, we have received a very clear request from the presidency that there are not so many explanations, so that's what we're dealing with. Therefore, I have not planned any explanation about this, but nothing is better than to have the opportunity to make such a statement. Then both Marianne Marthinsen and Line Henriette Heimdal were involved in the significance of the UN track. There is no alternative track, as I see it – it is the UN track or full derailment. There is no other system today that can create the normative international consensus on climate action than by doing it through the UN, so the UN track is the only one that applies. But that does not mean that it is not allowed to drive other trains in addition, where what countries do at home, and also the coalitions of willing countries can do at forest level, at climate adaptation or at technology transfer, are of course important. Nobody forbids technology transfer from one country to another without you having an international framework for it. So, yes, we must make the United Nations the framework for the international negotiations. We must have agreements through the UN. We must also be able to take single initiatives in many other areas that go beyond what is fully agreed in the UN. So was Line Henriette Heimdal inside the trust crisis that was created in Copenhagen. There is no doubt that much time this year has been spent rebuilding trust. I'll use the opportunity to give a very strong reward to Mexico for the glittering leadership they've shown so far. Whether it leads to results in Cancún is too early to say. But if it wasn't, at least it's not because of Mexico. Minister of Foreign Affairs Espinosa and Minister of Environment Elvira have shown a formidable ability to create international trust. It's great to see such a capable woman as Espinosa lead the negotiations on behalf of Mexico. So we've rebuilt confidence, and in all the camps it's accepted that under difficult conditions they're doing an incredibly good job. So Nikolai Astrup asked if the government has any view of which of the funding proposals from the panel that Stoltenberg and Meles have led, which are the best. I think our main attitude is that what it's possible to bring together international consensus will be pretty good no matter what it is. All proposals on the table from that sample will be acceptable to Norway. The difficulty is not to choose on the top shelf, but the difficulty is to get a broad enough consensus on some of these proposals at all, because objections are always being mobilised. Even small island countries, which argue otherwise that they will go down if they do nothing about climate change — and that is right — can sometimes mobilise, for example. against international shipping charges on the grounds that island states are more dependent on shipping than other countries. So the difficulty is to reach agreement, not to choose from other good suggestions. But at the same time, it is also right that proposals that have the double benefit, that you both tax something that is climate-friendly, or greenhouse gas emissions, and at the same time use the money for something positive, which is climate adaptation or reduced emissions, are of course a good thing. The international fuel charge for shipping or aircraft is good examples of this. Astrup also asked what we were doing on the shipping side. We have taken a number of initiatives. Norway has put forward proposals in the negotiations. I have written letters to the head of the International Maritime Organisation to advance this, including in controversial areas. But the big challenge here again is not Norway's own-initiative wealth, because it's significant, but it's getting a system that everyone feels is fair at the same time. Many developing countries therefore believe that there should be different conditions for ships from developing countries in relation to countries. We believe it is a very difficult principle as long as so much of the flagged fleet is in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1885	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for the Environment and Development on the climate negotiations at the meeting of the Parties in Mexico be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1903	St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005 Living with cultural memories was presented by the Bondevik II government at the time Councillor Knut Arild Hareide. It's this big message that the cultural memory field is governed after today. The cultural memory communication of 2005 gave a huge revitalisation of cultural awareness, both in this room, in the government and among the people most, and the discussions and decisions announced a new spring for Norwegian cultural memory policy. The purpose of this interpellation is not to be a «shooter grave interpellation». The theme is not worthy of ideas and arguments being shot down without debate. I want to highlight some areas in the cultural memory field on which I think there should be some changes, and also give the Council of State the opportunity to respond to these challenges. In the evening post Friday 26 November this year we could read that there will be busy days for the cultural heritage until 2020. Eleven peaceful buildings need to be refurbished every week to achieve the 2020 target. The 2020 objective in this context is to: ‘2020, the annual loss of protected cultural memories shall be minimised, protected and conservationable cultural memories shall be secured and have an ordinary level of maintenance, and a representative selection of cultural memories shall be protected’. The cultural budget for next year is nothing to cry out for. The Riksantikvaren, Jørn Holme, says that ‘owners of peaceful buildings have reason to be very disappointed’. But rickshaw Holme is a man of action. He sent a letter last week to the municipalities asking the municipalities to use the home of the property tax law to exempt property tax for buildings with historical value. Let me quote a little from the letter: ‘Government grants are also very limited. Therefore, an exemption from property tax would be of great importance to the individual owner. Owners undertake a physically and economically demanding maintenance work – an effort desired by society to maintain their cultural heritage.’ The Riksantikvarn speaks the truth about the economy, but he also illustrates the possibility that lies in the property tax law. The National Audit Office's 2009 report on the follow-up to the cultural memory field was a framework criticism, which we, who are concerned with cultural memories, must address. Important cultural memories could be lost, and there was a risk that the national performance targets set by the Storting itself would not be achieved by 2020. It must be allowed to ask questions about whether we have a good enough knowledge of the situation of our cultural memories. Should we not immediately have a better factual basis as a starting point for a future political strategy in the field of cultural memory? To me it is quite obvious that it has to. In a short time, the Ministry of the Environment and the National Antiquities must provide a new analysis of the situation in the field of cultural memory. The non-parliamentary forces in cultural memory protection in Norway are united in believing that the best tool the government can give them is a report that shows how the situation is. This is not a big demand of our cultural memory guards. I think we should try to facilitate such a report. This government has not delivered any notice of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state since 2007. Rumors say there might be no new message about the state of the state of the state of the state. The more important it is that we get a status report for cultural memories. Other measures that we can use to increase knowledge are the Planning and Building Act. It is an as important law for cultural memory protection as the cultural memory law itself. Municipalities can and should be involved in the work of preserving cultural memories. Knowledge is a prerequisite for use. Therefore, all municipalities should be given a quality-assured overview of their cultural heritage, and with this as the starting point, a municipal sub-plan for cultural memories and environments should be drawn up. We've used carrots as a strategy to get more municipalities to create cultural memory plans. Unfortunately, we see that the carrots we've used so far have not given the desired result. The time has come for a load of carrots! It costs approx. NOK 400000 to prepare a cultural memory plan. We have 280 municipalities that lack such a plan. So let's do a problem. $75 000 to create a cultural memory plan, and $80 pst. by the municipalities, this offer is accepted, and then we have a price label of approx. Seventeen million. kr. We should do this over a two-year period. That's $8.5 million. kr per year. There's little money to count for Norway AS, but I think it's the Christmas Eve for all of us who are busy with cultural memories. Every cultural memory will be seen, and they will also be preserved. We see that practical money grants are beneficial. It's just to raise your eyes and look at the grant that Akershu County Municipality gives. As mentioned earlier, last week nationalist Holme wrote a letter to the municipalities to use the possibility of the property tax law granting exemption from property tax for buildings with historical value. The Riksantikvar states that the government grants are very limited. An exemption from property tax is a very important handshake from the government to the individual owner, even if it costs the individual municipality a smaller tax loss. Riksantikvar Holme also stresses that the historic buildings are important in terms of value creation in the municipalities, especially in the context of travel life. Minister for the Environment and Development, Erik Solheim, has now given the management of its underlying agencies great freedom to participate in the public debate. Of course you can problematize this, but I'm glad that ricksantikvar Holmes' voice sounds strong and clear in the cultural policy situation we're in today. Now it is the case that every argument that the national product leads in the field that municipalities should be able to grant owners of peaceful and conservation cultural memories exemption from property tax can also be used – in full parallel – as a reason for the State to bring its own tax package to private owners of peaceful and conservation-regulated houses. The only difference is that the State package will have an impact on the proceeds calculations in the State budget and not just on the respective municipalities of the country. The current government has consistently and systematically thwarted all attempts to obtain tax incentives for cultural memory protection. I think I know Solheim's thoughts in the tax and tax field, but I also see the council as a man who thinks new thoughts to get to what he wants in the world he wants. Not so many weeks ago, State Councillor Solheim, along with Minister of Agriculture Breck, sent out a letter on soil protection, a useful letter and a necessary letter. Then my question is: what is the reason that it was ricksantikvar Holme, and not the Environment Minister himself, who sent out the letter to the municipalities about the exemption from the property tax? Could the State Council of Solheim have done this, and support the State Council's line of argument in the National Antiquities Letter? I think the Council of State understands where I will, because if the government supports the argument of the national antiquities in this current letter, how can the Council of State then defend that the government does not make a package of incentives for the same owners linked to the State tax system? The question is, who will pay for the relief for the owners of important cultural memories – municipality or state? I have tried, through this interpellation installation, to highlight three main challenges: A real fact-finding basis: where are we, then to know where we're going. To facilitate more municipal cultural memory plans through a grant scheme of e.g.: 75 000 kroner for the 280 municipalities that are missing. the exposure of the Riksantikvaren to the exemption from property tax for historical buildings versus the range of arguments in relation to the tax and tax initiatives of the State; These are three sub-points that I have drawn up in relation to the main question: How does the government think that the objectives of the Storting for cultural memory protection will be achieved by 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1968	Let me say that it's very gratifying that the interpellant picks up cultural memories in the Storting, that we get a broad discussion about it. Although the interpellation in its content may seem somewhat shaky because it goes on schemes and systems and money, this is, of course, the basis for preserving cultural memories. But let's remind ourselves what that actually is. It's one of the things that makes us proud as a nation, it's one of the most beautiful things we have: it's Odda and Rjukan, who we're trying to get on UNESCO's world heritage list as such technical-cultural cultural memories; it's the Viking heritage sites, which we worked last week to get on the same world heritage list; it's Ne's church gardens, which are well-established, and which are now used for weddings and a number of other cozy activities; and it's full of large and small houses and other memories across the country that people are occupied by. It also turns out that when they are exposed to problems, people mobilize – whether in connection with the fires in Bergen or in the debate on Bjørvika. So it's very interested in it. I've also seen the number that the interpellant represents, that today it's going to be a decrease, or a loss, of 1.5 pst. in cultural memories in Norway this year. We don't know where that number came from, or any documentation for any such number. I'm probably also in doubt about how easy it is to figure out such a process. After the numbers that we have, this is the maturity -- by any means possible -- much less. That doesn't mean we're not going to take it seriously, but that means I don't know where that number comes from. Now the interpellant said that she would not have any dispute about who has been best in this area. I agree, but I can't avoid noticing that she still adds up to it. That's why I've found the figures for how much was allocated in this area under the Bondevik government, and how much was granted under the red-green government, and it's a little necessary to say from, because the increase in the cultural memory area was about. 60 million. kr under the Bondevik II Government, while at approx. 190 million. kr under the red-green government. I'm not saying this because I think this discussion is interesting. I think it's uninteresting, but since representatives from the civil wing are constantly trying to present it as if nothing happens under the red-green government, I have to say that there is a multiple of the efforts under the red-green government – a formidable increase in very few years. The Riksantikvar has never had more resources than he has today. And for the national product, giving the owner of peaceful cultural memories better framework conditions was – and should still be – a major factor. In fact, the increase mentioned after 2005 has gone almost unabated to the people who own the house and to cover expenditure on archaeological excavations related to small private activities, such as building homes for their own use, re-cultivation and other agricultural activities. Budgetary allocations from the Ministry of the Environment budget go to peaceful cultural memories. The national performance target to which the representative Hemdal refers is the protected cultural memories – those that are not at peace. Access to a cultural memory is based on the Cultural Memory Act and is reserved for cultural memories of great national value. It's the state's instruments. It's the state that can peace a cultural memory. That being said, I would say that there are a lot of cultural memories that are protective, but without it being possible to save them all. A cultural memory can be of great importance to a community, or to a larger region, but it is not supported by the national Antiquities to maintain it. An example of such a cultural memory is the Nordli farm, which was torn, and which there was a great local uprising around it. It was not at peace as a cultural memory of national importance, but there was no doubt that it had great regional significance and was an emotionally strong case for many of them it affected. It's in this picture that the Norwegian cultural memory fund comes in. The Fund is the main instrument for those who own such protective cultural memories. I must mention, then, that the government has increased the core capital of the Cultural Memory Fund by 1.2 billion. NOK 200 million. kr in 2005, when the Bondevik government went off, to SEK 1.4 billion. kr in year. This would mean that we are gradually becoming better able to take care of our protective cultural memories as well. We have a good overview of the peaceful cultural memories, but we have a less overview of the non-peaceful. And that's where the criticism from the Riksrevision's frame, on the question raised by the interpellant. I agree with the interpellant that there are challenges related to the lack of governance data, including: in that there are no satisfactory reporting systems to have an overview of protective buildings, Sami cultural memories and peaceful buildings, and that is what we are now working to improve. A management and processing system for both peaced cultural memories and cultural memories of local and regional value is to be developed through the Knowledge Lift for Cultural Memory. The promise of knowledge means that the database Ashkeladden will be upgraded and further developed. The Ashkeladden shall be developed as an effective tool for reporting on the state and possible losses of cultural memories. That's set of $14 million. kr for the next year's budget for this work. Together with the construction industry, the Ministry of the Environment has also set up this year a web-based knowledge portal to provide advice and knowledge between the construction industry and the owners, and to provide the owners with safe access to good craftsmen. Anyone who owns culturally valuable buildings, both peaceed and protected, should be able to use the portal and we also expect it to be able to meet some of the needs of municipalities in getting people with the skills to build protective buildings. It is certainly one of the challenges that some of the knowledge needed to take care of old buildings can be confused and that good craftsmanship and knowledge must be taken care of in order to keep them well informed. Let me also mention, since reference was made to the product's play on property taxes, that I was not familiar with that initiative until this interpellation. I think it is very positive that the national Antiquities are taking such initiatives. Of course, the municipalities themselves have to decide whether they want to exploit them, but the fact that the national product reminds the municipalities of the possibility in the law to exempt property tax must only be a positive thing – and sometimes to remind them of the significance of the national product, the Directorate of Nature Management, NORAD and the many underlying agencies that I manage. The Climate and Pollution Directorate has received a clear message that I want them to take the initiative and that I want them to take a professional stand in the debate. I would have liked a little bit more principleal support for this in Stortinget, because what we see again and again in Stortinget, is that representatives who like what one of these institutions says, use it in the debate, but once you hear something you don't like, for example. from the Directorate for Nature Management, censorship and prohibition are called. We must have a consistent practice here. Either we want the floors to present their professional position, such as: The national product and the Directorate of Nature Management do, or we don't want it. It cannot be the case that the atmosphere in Stortinget should be let go until the public debate takes place. If I can come back with a challenge, it's a little bit more for Stortinget to clarify what the Storting itself wants with regard to this area. I would have thought that it was precisely the opposition in Stortinget that has an interest in the professional standing of the underlying agencies being presented, and therefore do not protest every time you don't like what you hear. Well, it was a depression. So ask the interpellant about VAT exemptions, and she more than suggests that she knows my position in that area. I have to confirm that I am afraid of a situation where every time you see something in society that is positive and desirable, you call for VAT exemptions. There is no doubt that this is an area where VAT exemptions would be positive, but there is a wealth of such areas where VAT exemptions would be positive. Starting from this, the main source of funding for the Norwegian welfare system is undermined. Norwegian welfare state is financed by VAT. It is not financed by all the other forms of taxation. They also have a certain meaning, but it is VAT that is the very basis of the Norwegian welfare state. Without VAT, we had never had the kindergarten development, the elderly care, and the schools that Norway is proud of. It is dangerous to start, every time you perceive something else to be positive in society, to require VAT exemptions in one area. Therefore, I believe that it is better to have targeted mechanisms to provide direct support for price-worthy actions in the field of cultural memory. In addition, a VAT exemption, as the Minister of Finance has previously explained, will be very difficult to comply with, and will soon contain many grey zones. I hope I have answered most of the questions, but there will be an opportunity to come back. I would once again like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important area, an area where I think there is also a broad consensus in the Storting that we want to get to more. To achieve more in this area in the years to come, the combination of good policies and budgets that need to increase year after year in order to meet expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e1998	Yes, cultural memories are the things that make us proud, cultural memories that are beautiful, and that we want to take care of. It is not possible to get under the chair that after the Bondevik administration, together with the Stortinget, got the message Life with cultural memories, we have spent more money in this field. I have not lowered that either, and that is not the purpose of this debate. The cultural memory fund that we got from that message is an important pillar of cultural memory. Then I need a little visit to SV and their 2014 goals. In the setting of the message, it says that the representatives of the SV want us to do what others would do by 2020, they would do by 2014. But they didn't have a majority in that context. It was one of the areas where the Council of State was not in – maybe I expressed myself very unclear. It concerns municipal cultural memory plans and the provision of larger grants to them. It turns out that Akershus County Municipality, which now provides a grant of NOK 75 000, has a coverage of 80 pst. by the municipalities in 2010, either for those who have plans, or for those who have already adopted the plans, while in the country we are otherwise on a coverage level for cultural memory plans of 34 pst. There is no doubt that the few dollars it represents will cause the municipalities to start the important work. I went into a calculation to figure out what it might cost the state to make provision for a little more carrots in this area than we have so far done. I'd like to have a fundamental discussion with the Council of State on the underlying agencies, but I think he'll look into his quote to see that the Christian People's Party's representative has been negative when the trade unions have spoken out. I mean, it's a force. In the situation we're in now, where we need all the good forces, whether it's from DN, or whether it's from the national antiquities or other government agencies, at least this representative has not had any trouble with it. I hear the Council of State says that we need to have an improvement in the reporting in the cultural memory field as a follow-up to the Riksrevision report. My challenge is that it is this house that should be reported in the cultural memory field, because this is where the policy is adopted and also to be launched in the future. Then my question is, when will the Stortinge get presented with a major matter of cultural memories when it looks like a message about the state of the state of the state of the kingdom is not on the stairs in the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2013	It is true that I have a comprehensive cabinet of quotes from the staging representatives who disagree with what different directorates might think in different areas. It is also true that the Christian People's Party does not have a comprehensive place in the cabinet – it is probably the most filled up by representatives from the Right and the Advance Party. But it shows well again that the Christian People's Party also has more to do in this area to work with the government parties than with other beekeepers, to say it that way. And then there we are the same thing. The proposal for a support scheme or incentive scheme for municipal cultural plans was not known to me until it was launched here, I just have to admit it. But it would be very foolish to reject such a proposal without thinking about it, so let's bring it back and evaluate it. My immediate counter-representation will of course be that people will ask: Is it best to spend money on plans, or is it best to spend money on immediate physical measures in the field of cultural memory protection? But it may be that the plans are so essential to make this happen, that it's a sensible proposal, so let's definitely take it with us and evaluate it. So we're asking for better reporting to Stortinget. There I have the opinion that the Stortinget gets the report that Stortinget wants. There are many ways for the government to report to the Storing. It may be reported through budgets or it may be reported through own documents. Of course, we will facilitate the reporting that Stortinget wanted, also in the cultural memory field. With regard to the communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, it was probably a fairly widespread belief that it had played its part a little bit. I have to take this after memory, but I think the last one was ten months in Stortinget before it was finally treated. It certainly shows that the feeling that this was the document you were about to throw over, and that it was about using it to shape the policy, not the most burning, to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2024	The crash will take a break until 6:00 p.m. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 16.04. The cancelation resumed at 18 a.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2031	The decision continues to deal with case No. 8 on Agenda No 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2034	First, I want to announce that I think there are important things that the interpellant brings up here today. I won't say so much, most of it is affected by, among other things. Councils of State. But I want to touch some of the projects that the Council of State has so far been involved in, to make some of what this government has done visible, and to continue to do. Then I started with the ricksantikvaren's ruin project, which was launched by this government in December 2005, by State Secretary Henriette Westhrin, at the Nes Church Gardens in Rome. This is a facility that has been used a lot, both for concerts, weddings and other events, and it is a very nice exit point, as I understand it. It's also the millennial place of Ne's municipality. The churches are now fully restored, and the Council of State was also, as I see it, present during the reopening of the churches in June this year. It was a big happening when this was put into action. Then it is also important to take care of our industrial heritage. There I will touch Tysso 1 in Tyssedal, Odda. It's also a magnificent building. It is a power station that is also equipped with funds from this government. It is fantastic after the description I have received, and I hope that I will once have the opportunity to see this great facility. In September, the Council of State at Rjukan was to mark the start of work on world heritage nominations for industrial heritage – Rjukan, Notodden and Odda. The Rjukan track has been included as the eleventh on the national heritage list of technical and industrial cultural memories, and is followed by a special follow-up. The Riksantikvara spends millions of dollars each year on the technical and industrial cultural memories, and the item has increased by 3 million. kr for next year, earmarked the Rjukan track. Here the whole community supports up, and it's a real joy local. When Knut Arild Hareide was Minister for the Environment, he presented St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005, in June 2005. The 2006 budget increased by 36 million. Compared to the 2005 budget. Since then, the government has increased the budgets for the period 2007 to 2011 by a total of 102 million. kr. Then I think it's important to take over, also the opposition, that things happen – a lot of things – on this side as well. But, like the Council of State, I would also like to stress that we are still facing major challenges. It's not that you can just surf through these things in a comfortable way towards 2020, as they said, and believe that you've reached the goal. We, and the government, will make sure that in the future, too, we set aside sufficient resources so that we can actually achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. It'll be very important in the future. The Riksantikvar has never had more resources than they have today. And for the national antiquities it has to give the owners of peaceful cultural memories better framework conditions, be, and still be, essentially. In fact, the increase mentioned after 2005 has gone almost unabated to the people who own the house and to cover expenditure on archaeological excavations related to small private activities, such as building homes for their own use, re-cultivation and other agricultural activities. I think we are doing these things very well, and I still hope that you will support the projects that are. The government has arranged for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2051	For the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 2004–2005 Living with cultural memories sets the size as national performance target No. 1, that the annual loss of protective cultural and cultural memories should be minimised. By 2020, the loss shall not exceed 0,5 pst. annual. According to the Premature Memory Association, losses are calculated today at least 1.5 pst. The Riksantikvaret has determined that transfers to cultural memory protection must increase considerably if the objective is to be achieved. In the 2011 state budget, the government has added a zero budget for cultural memory protection, so the question from the interpellant is appropriate. In the debate on climate, the argument from the Minister for the Environment is that if we do not take this seriously now, it will be so much more to repeat later. The same must also apply in this area. The party of progress has an understanding of the Riksantikvar Jørn Holmes's comment. He says, ‘Owners of peaceful buildings have reason to be disappointed.’ The party of progress is in favour of stimulating increased protection efforts among owners, whether private or business, and property taxes are by no means a good incentive at all, rather the opposite. Property taxes are a utilitarian thing, and especially in matters where one is occupied with preserving objects for the future. A bad incentive to take care of buildings of historical value shall be a long search. A well-established, historically important building that is maintained will have a significantly higher tax base than one that is not maintained, thereby increasing the cost of property taxes — resources that could be used for maintenance. Fortunately, the nationalist product has understood this simple point, so now it is only to hope that local politicians too understand this. Especially is the case among the peaceful and protected buildings according to many people's opinion now critical. The annual maturity is significantly larger than that seen as the target in St.meld. No 16. So a few words about archaeological excavations, as many people doubt. In order to intervene in areas where there is a belief in cultural memory, action holders often need to map cultural memory on the site. Normally, the actor sees this as an entirely necessary ‘investment’ in the development. In some cases, the monitoring results in important cultural memories that in turn result in protection. Thus, both the financial costs through mapping and an economic loss are borne by the operator by tying up the area. It is well known that this distribution of costs does not tend to be cultural and foresight work. If the community were willing to take its share of the costs, county archaeologists would be forced to enter and prioritize and have a more proactive hold on excavations. Today's system means that the builder is completely awarded to the archaeologist, with unexpected costs en route, in such a race. Everyone understands that this is the goat that fits the oat sack, and with right of objection and restraint, the whole system is an obstacle to development for private and not least for municipalities. Unfortunately, we see major conflicts in many municipalities where it seems that some archaeologists are getting their way forward as they find themselves too well. This should end soon. Thank you finally to the inter-pellant who has taken up and looked at on the agenda a matter where there are many good solutions, including those for which the interpellant himself speaks.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2068	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. Protection of ancient memory and cultural memory is crucial for understanding Norwegian cultural heritage and history. Protection through use and value creation is the theme of the policy agenda, which is becoming increasingly important and important. The right will also indicate that, in the 2005 review of the Landmark on Cultural Memory, the Storting adopted as a strategic objective of cultural memory policy that the lack of cultural memory and the cultural environment should be managed and preserved as a user resource and as a basis for knowledge, experiences and value creation. A representative selection of cultural memory should be preserved in a long-term perspective. The size continues as a national performance target to minimise the annual loss of cultural and cultural heritage and not to exceed 0,5 pst by 2020. annual. Unfortunately, the government of the day does not follow up on this. According to the Premature Memory Association, losses are calculated today at least 1.5 pst. The Riksantikvar has argued that transfers to cultural memory protection must be increased considerably if the objective is to be achieved. In the 2011 state budget, the government has added to a zero budget for cultural memory protection. The Riksantikvar has commented on the budget that the owners of peaceful buildings have reason to be disappointed. It's not just the Formal Memory Association and the National Antiquities product that are concerned about how our cultural memories are preserved. The National Audit Office has examined the extent to which the Ministry of the Environment has entrusted its national responsibility to ensure that the peace and security of buildings are preserved so that the national objectives in this area are achieved. They came last year with strong criticism of how the Ministry of the Environment takes care of national responsibility for peaceful and protective buildings. They state that there is a high risk of loss of protective and peaceful buildings and that there is a significant risk that the Stortinget’s national goal for the cultural memory area will not be achieved by 2020. The National Audit Office states that although several of the key objectives for the preservation of peace and protected buildings are only to be achieved by 2020, the weaknesses in management are so extensive as to raise questions in the investigation as to whether the commitments to achieve the 2020 target are in place. In addition, questions are raised about whether it assumes responsibility for preserving cultural memory as a user resource and as a basis for knowledge, experiences and value creation has been taken care of in the field of building protection. A lot of cultural memory is privately owned, and private owners of cultural memory will be important if we are to achieve Storting's goals in the field of cultural memory. Private owners of cultural memory make a great effort for the community by caring for peaceful buildings and other cultural memories. Owning and living in a peaceful house brings with it great responsibility and many duties. It can also quickly be expensive. Strict requirements are imposed for maintenance of protected buildings, and if a window, door or other part of the building is to be changed, it will usually have to be replaced by special buildings and often very expensive parts. Here you can do more than just go to the nearest building building to replace it with a window. Right? I think that restoration expenditures have to take care of our common cultural heritage is an effort for the community for which tax deductions have to be made. As a consequence, the right has a right to decide when managing the State budget for 2011 to introduce an accounting equation for the owners of private protected buildings, so that it is possible to deduct costs associated with the restoration of peaceful buildings on the tax. Unfortunately, the red-green litter chose to vote down this proposal. The right further argues that there should be no law for municipalities to charge property taxes on peaceful buildings. It is quite unlikely that thanks as local politicians, often of red-green color, give individuals time and energy to take care of the local cultural heritage, is an account from the local Equation Office of property taxes to the municipality. We need to change this, but when it comes to facilitating and appreciating private efforts, I am sadly equally confident in the red-green government of the cultural memory area that I have in other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2098	Now, it must be possible to remind the representative of Lødemel of what has been said both by several speakers here from this pulpit during this debate, and has also been admitted by the inter-pellant, that this government has lifted this area in great measure. I am not going to repeat my speech, but if we are going to have a constructive debate in this Chamber, at least I thought that in this context one could recognise what has been followed up by this government and which has also worked for a broad majority in Stortinget. Let me start by giving praise to the interpellant to raise cultural memories on the agenda of debate in Stortinget, not only because it is important – cultural memory is an important thing – but also because it is at the heart of our field of work. We don't spend too much time in the debates we have here. There are often other things that characterize our debates. In this committee we have a common challenge when it comes to raising the cultural memory area to several debates in the hall. We have a responsibility to manage our cultural memories. They shall provide knowledge and insight for future generations. They are a unique source of accurate insight, identity, experience and opportunities for nutrition and industrial development. It's definitely a field that needs to be lifted, and it's nice to see how new diamonds are constantly appearing in our container. A few days ago, it became clear that the nationalist recommended the Kvernstein Park in Hyllestad to the UNESCO list. Our good colleague Tor-Arne Stroem referred to our modern industrial memories, which are important – Rjukan and Odda. We also have Tyssedal, Sauda and other places that represent a very important part of our cultural history, but industrial history is much older. It shows you by lifting out the Kvernstein Park. Here we are going back 1,300 years in time – perhaps to the dawning industrialization, at least to an export industry of its time, which shows that the Vikings were not only blood-thirsty people who are running the beaches but also trading. Millstones were produced, hopped out and exported to large parts of northern Europe from this place. That's one of a lot of examples, but these show up. They're not just great experiences, but they're a source of insight and increased knowledge, which it's important that we take care of. There's plenty of room for preserving cultural memories with the hallucinations inside. And then we can love each other longer, and we're going to love each other. We will always debate possible changes in the administration, which make this even easier to take care of. From the Center Party side, we are not allergic to any of the suggestions that come here. Of course, they must be weighed against other good suggestions. State councils pointed out that VAT is one of the areas with which it is difficult to do something, precisely because it is such a central part of the community's collection. Tax incentives are another point that is called, and all of these tools we have to periodically venture to discuss to see if we can reach what we want to achieve, to get an even greater focus on taking care of our cultural heritage. It is important to stress that a lot of work is done. A great deal of work is being done by voluntary organisations, individuals and communities to promote and make cultural memories available, and the awareness of cultural memories is crucial to happiness in their preservation. If we have an involvement in this in the communities where a find cultural memory, and if one clears to have an involvement in it in the school, as one has many examples of – class-active in caring for cultural memory and the like – it is very important for increasing awareness about this. So the Progress Party lists what's going on in archaeological excavations. We have to eyeball that it's a real challenge many places. First of all, it has nutritional effects. What's also a problem is that it creates attitudes to cultural memory that are unnecessarily negative, and it's a common challenge that we have to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2118	First, I have to say a thousand thanks to the interpellant for raising such an important topic, sail if I'm not quite sure if we're moving very many spots forward in this debate. I'm sorry, because what is the big changes in the entire cultural memory field is that we were dealing with a national audit report last year – a national audit report that was very critical, with comments that all the political parties in this Chamber put themselves behind, and that is very critical of what the Riksrevision pointed out. One of those things is that you don't have documentation, numbers and knowledge about the whole field. It's the way the government here thinks it's a little entertaining that someone's operating with unverified numbers. Then I would just like to draw your attention again to the position of which there was broad political agreement, where it is very serious that the Ministry of the Environment does not have an overview of cultural memory protection and of the challenges in the field. In fact, I don't think the Council of State is going to question other people's numbers, but make sure that they get their own verified. A unanimous committee has asked for this to be done. Several have mentioned here that most Norwegian cultural memories are privately owned. They are probably very often around the world, while many have good arrangements to do this. In many places there is a great deal of envy that makes it difficult for those who are actually going to preserve these cultural memories. We actually have to create systems that take care of private owners – private owners of things that are nice to own. But they will have the opportunity to care for something for the community as well. That's what the archaeological findings are. Jøran Kalldmyr of the Progress Party said in the evening post on October 14th this year that it is terrible to spend millions of taxpayers' money digging up an abandoned ship and a goat's head. What he referred to then was the excavations in Bjørvika, where a 15-metre long ship was found from the Middle Ages and between 15 and 18 ships from the period before the Reformation. It says something about attitude. So it's not that all parties have been equally united when there are local challenges that meet, whether you agree with both the Committee's comments, which are so sharp, and in the debate here today. Locally not all of the batches on the layer are used to prioritize this. But I ask the Council of State to do a little thought experiment. If we were to have the system as in Norway when it comes to archaeological findings in a country like this. Greece, I wonder what Athens had looked like. I wonder how one had managed to take care of as many tombs as they have. Just making a T-Bahn trip, it's gonna be a new museum. Obviously, in a country with so many cultural memories, so close to the Earth's surface, other systems have been put in place to take care of it. In Norway, we've privatized it very much, and it's a big challenge to get people to understand that you're actually going to take care of archaeological findings. I think you can travel around the country and find lots of cellar stalls that contain things that the community should have, and not the one who found it and hid it because one was afraid that someone would find something more. That means we're losing a lot of valuable historical knowledge. Then there is a point that no one has mentioned before, namely the climate challenge related to this. It's not like this is getting cheaper. It's not that it's easier to take care of this when we see that the climate is changing. A wetter climate, a more stormy climate, stormflies and all that is a huge challenge for our entire cultural memory protection, and it will take a lot to do with it. So this also has a climate perspective. Then it is that you can always argue about which government has done the most. But there are two important points here, first of all, the establishment of the Cultural Memory Fund, which I think was very important to get in place. I am quite proud that I was sitting here on the Stortinget when my government did. The second is that this message from the National Audit Office was to give the Council of State support to fight in a government. He hasn't made that clear. But he should have had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2137	Then I would like to thank you for the interpellation debate. I think it is important that we have a discussion about cultural memory policy here in this Chamber. By 2020, the annual loss of protected cultural memories shall be minimised, protected and conservationable cultural memories shall be secured and have an ordinary level of maintenance, and a representative selection of cultural memories shall be peaced. This meant Stortinget in 2005. That is to say, as I said in my main post, in the next few years, 11 peaceful buildings have to be restored every week. We have a lot of work ahead of us. I'm glad the Council of State says that he wants to take with him and consider an increased grant to local cultural memory plans. I think it can be an important piece to increase the level of knowledge. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that Stortinget will receive the reports that Stortinget himself wants. Yes, the Stortinget wants, via me, a report on management information in the field of building protection. We want information and a report on the loss of protective buildings, on the composition of the conservation mass, on the state of rescued buildings and on which Sami buildings are automatically saved. That's what the National Audit Office criticised in 2009, and we want to report on that, so we can work on the basis of the facts we have. The last moment in my main contribution was to look at tax and tax changes, possibly a change in VAT. It is such that the undersigned know that VAT is for everyone to build a welfare society. But in terms of the building masses we're talking about here, I'd like to get a quote from the national antiquities letter: ‘The rescued building stock represents only 1,5 per million of the total building stock in Norway. In addition, conservation properties and other designated cultural memories are added. We assume that in total it will be less than 1 per cent of the number of buildings in the country.» We're talking about a building mass of 1 pst. It's not the biggest suction pipe we want to have into the community. But it's an important incentive to preserve, take care of and learn, and in relation to the fact that this is a cultural memory that we're going to deliver to the next generation, and next and next, and yes, for 1 300 years these buildings are going to stand, the representative Sande.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2155	I welcome the broad agreement between all the parties of the Storting on the importance of cultural memory protection as demonstrated by the debate. I must add that I am particularly pleased that the Progress Party has so expressly expressed support for this, given that we so often hear the opposite of the many local representatives of the Progress Party. I am pleased that the Stortinget together is giving its support to the national product, as it is, after all, only a few months since a proposal was made by the Advance Party to cut the rickshaw. But it shows that there is a broad consensus on support for this important field, and it's great. So that's not what Trine Skei Grande said, that you can argue about which government has done the most in this area, because it's just counting, and everybody can do it. The Bondevik government increased the allocation to this area by 65.3 million. kr. The red-green government has increased by 192.6 million. kr. That count speaks for itself. To be honest, I'm also less impressed with those who set up funds than those who fill up funds. I travel a lot internationally, and creating funds you see very, very often. Filling money into funds is a much harder exercise, and we're the ones who've filled in 1.2 billion. kr in the Cultural Memory Fund. When I say this, it's because here we hear a number of complaints and sytems that give the impression that the red-green government is doing little. Well, if we do little, I don't dare think about how cruel the situation was until 2005. It was the Black Death in that case, compared to the pretty bad conditions it's now. Then there has been a lot of constructive out of the debate. We will present proposals for better documentation of the state in this area. I have mentioned the Ashkeladden, and I have mentioned the knowledge portal that we create together with the construction industry. Of course, I will take seriously the views that came to mind about what the Storting wants to report on, and I will make sure that it is well organised. We will take back the proposal for a support scheme for municipal climate adaptation and see if it is possible to go further. I promise that we will report back on that proposal. Many parties here have expressed sympathy with the letter of the national antiquities to the municipalities. Then it's basically just for the same parties and all of our parties to take up these proposals in the municipalities and make sure that this is implemented. The size should not and should not dictate the municipalities. I noticed Right's view that the municipalities should not be allowed to charge property taxes for the saved buildings. At least there is a detailed regulation of the municipalities that I thought we were not going to operate with. On the other hand, it must be clear to the Right, together with other parties, to present proposals in the municipalities at the same time. At least that's my view of how it should be. Let me end by saying that I am happy with both Tor-Arne Stroem and Erling Sande about the amazing things we're doing in the industrial field, and especially this we're doing now with regard to the Vikings. We can connect Hyllestad, as the first real industrial production in Norway, with the global Viking image.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2168	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 9 and 10 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2197	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2206	What we are about to discuss is two representative proposals that both deal with transparency around Norwegian aid. The one representative proposal deals with proposals that the government should take action to increase transparency. The second proposal deals with anti-corruption and transparency requirements and proposals for requiring all beneficiary countries to join the IATI Transparency Initiative for Norwegian aid. First, I think there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget that transparency about Norwegian aid is important. It is both that we get insight into the results of Norwegian assistance, and how the money we grant is actually being spent, and that we are actively working to prevent corruption. With regard to the proposal on measures to improve the transparency of Norwegian aid, the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, has explained how to work today to ensure this. I have not intended to refer the whole letter, but mention a few of the things he takes up. He explains, among other things: for transparency to take place through Prop. 1 S, through Norad’s performance reports, Norad’s statistical portal, which is the publication of actual consumption, and Norad’s evaluation function. Furthermore, it is described that work on increased transparency takes place in dialogue with the partners and that Norwegian assistance is managed under a clear and verifiable regulatory framework. The government also cooperates closely with actors such as the UN, the World Bank and the IMF. Quality assurance of assistance takes place both in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the Foreign Office and in Norad, through the Norad method department and the follow-up of results. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with the measures already in place by the government, while a minority, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, are asking the Government to take action. In my opinion, it would be a bit like turning open the doors. With regard to the proposal for a representative to require that all beneficiary countries for Norwegian assistance be associated with the IATI Transparency Initiative, only the Progress Party supports this. The majority of the Committee is satisfied with the assessments made by the State Council of Solheim by letter to the Committee. There he writes that IATI is not primarily targeted at countries receiving assistance but is an initiative signed, funded and managed by donors who have signed the declaration. The majority of the Committee considers that IATI is only one of several initiatives and instruments for increased transparency, transparency and institution building in the countries with which Norway cooperates. The majority show that Norway is already closely monitoring and zero-tolerance of corruption in aid projects, among others. through the dialogue with the recipient countries and through the work done in relation to their financial management, national audit and anti-corruption units. Finally, I think it is good that there is a continuous high interest in the Stortinget for transparency in Norwegian assistance and for what measures can ensure this transparency. The majority therefore recommends that both documents be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2225	We would like to commend the Council of State for being active and ongoing on this important topic. Governments have also shown admirable transparency in this respect. We refer to the comments of the Council of State on the Evening Post on 14 April 2008, where he says that ‘Norway has been naive and our assistance has helped to make corruption possible in Africa’. So let's try to fix it. The government has an offensive position, and the IATI transparency initiative has been signed by Norway. A number of donor countries have also chosen to enter. The donor countries that are pre-conquered, who want to be with us in combating this item of corruption, want to play with open cards. But it is clear that unfortunately the world is not ideal yet. We have not come to the point where we want to fight corruption, and we must make sure that Norwegian aid does not contribute to the promotion of a culture of corruption. We fully agree on that. Then we agree with the government's assessment of what the IATI is. But it also says that IATI is a ‘dynamic’ process, and when we read different IATI strategy papers, everyone points in one direction: IATI is going to be something more. Standards on how to describe the use of assistance should be provided in 2011 — reporting on the use of assistance. It is clear that then it is interesting that the donor countries to which Norway is contributing are part of this system, in addition to all the control systems we have. We're not going to be able to embrace everyone equally. We are also involved in providing assistance via other, more indirect channels. Our aim in promoting this proposal is that from the outset — while the IATI is being formed, while this tool is being launched — these countries can participate in and shape it. What's so great about IATI is that this is a partnership between NGOs, donor countries and beneficiary countries. Although it is the donor countries here that have been involved and funded it, and to the extent that this process is underway, it is a partnership. Recipient countries also have a role to play. So we don't think you're offensive enough, that you don't take this – I don't say you don't take it very seriously, but we would have wanted a more offensive attitude. When it is said that IATI is thus ‘one of several initiatives and instruments’ – and that is probably good and good – we would like the government to point out what better alternatives you have than that, because IATI may not be the final solution to this, and it is obvious that there may be other tools that are even better. We haven't been able to see it, but here we like to hear what the government has to mean. Then I will be allowed to address our minority proposal in case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2236	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2239	If I didn't quite misunderstand, didn't take up our previous speech on case No. 10, so then I'm going to do it. Then we have shared the burden fairly with regard to two very good proposals. When the Right promoted its proposal, it was because the Right wanted an aid policy for as much development as possible, not for as much assistance as possible. Although the case rapporteur, Eva Kristin Hansen, has presented the matter in an excellent way, she did so in a way that gave the impression that the Right – and I think she too meant the Advance Party – wants to ‘punch open doors’. I'll come back a little bit to that, because that's not what we're spending time on. There are so many unopened doors to address in Norwegian politics that we simply don't get time for that type of sport. Norway has a long tradition of transparency in administration. Transparency about who receives Norwegian aid, how the money is spent, the level of target achievement and possible negative consequences of Norwegian aid are a prerequisite for reform and further development. Transparency will adapt assistance more to the realities and opportunities created by globalisation and technological development. For the Right, the objective is to combat poverty effectively. It is important to ensure that the assistance provided by Norway is more targeted and focused and also subject to stricter performance requirements — and I stress performance requirements. Among other things, stronger demands must be made for the development of democracy, good governance and the fight against corruption of the recipients. In order to achieve the objective of effective poverty reduction, it is also necessary to provide for transparency and ideas from more people. Openness of assistance will increase knowledge and allow for innovation, accountability of both donor and recipient, and facilitate evaluation work. Among the measures we have mentioned in the proposal is an independent evaluation body, a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of international organisations with budgetary implications and full transparency of individual projects and their outcomes. I am pleased that the comments made by the Council of State on our proposal, which was also tabled by Mr Höglund, show that the Ministry takes the need for transparency seriously and that measures to increase transparency are both in place and will be launched. However, let me point to some areas where the Right is still impatient. Still, Norad’s role as aid manager and evaluation body – both functions – is unfortunate, and we look forward to the announced review of Norad’s role. We want the review carried out by international organisations to have budgetary implications. At the latest in the Committee’s consultation on the 2011 budget, there was strong criticism of several organisations receiving substantial funds from Norway. We also want data on each aid project to be published on the Ministry's website and are pleased that the Council of State is now notifying that this is being prepared. We assume that the action will be implemented during 2011, as the Council of State has said in a letter to the Committee. Finally – a few words on the Transparency Initiative proposal of the Progress Party, IATI: Right-wing agrees with the proposers that transparency in the beneficiary country will be an important contribution to the maximum impact of assistance. However, it is difficult for us to see that this initiative, the extent to which most of the commitments are due to donor countries, will make a decisive contribution to this objective. In our opinion, for example: support to local civil society an important measure to identify the unfortunate consequences of Norwegian aid projects. Finally, it is also the case that the aid chapter is actually one of the largest chapters on the expenditure side of the State budget, which is, in fact, the subject of very small debate. At all, there are a few rounds in Stortinget that highlight some critical searchlights on what is left, and what kind of results you have in this significant area. I think that when we look forward a little bit in time, concepts like assistance, climate challenges, and heavy Norwegian involvement in the rainforest sector, will lead to that transparency – transparency – in this area will be put into focus to an even greater extent than is the case now. I think the Council of State has had a good approach to these issues. It is simply not a question of ‘opening open doors’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2260	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2263	Transparency and transparency are an important prerequisite for all aid work. This has been emphasized under changing governments, and the Christian People's Party appreciates that the sitting government is also concerned about this and takes this seriously. Through close follow-up and zero tolerance for corruption, and through support for improving the financial management, national audit and anti-corruption units of cooperation, Norway contributes to better and more transparent governance. The work on increased transparency must be carried out in close dialogue with our partners, both in the aid efficiency dialogue and in the specific work on the fight against corruption, quality assurance and evaluation. Fortunately, the evaluation department of Norad has a high degree of independence. All evaluations are carried out by external independent trade unions following international tenders and also include designated assistance through international cooperation partners and multilateral organisations. For example, in 2010, assistance through the UN will be evaluated to promote democracy and good governance, and in 2011 assistance for education through multilateral organisations will be evaluated. Mandates and contracts for evaluations are always public, and the evaluation reports are made public and posted online. The Central Control Unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was established in 2007. The unit currently has four employees. An external alert channel was established in January 2008. The purpose of the creation of the alert channel was to facilitate the notification of critical matters, including financial mischief, both for employees and others, and to ensure the anonymity of the alerts who would like it. Until 14 October 2010, as is known by the U.D., 241 cases were registered. Of these, the prosecution authorities in Norway or abroad have been involved in 31 cases. As of today, the repayment of evidence of default is required in 37 cases. To date, the U.D. has been promised a refund to the Norwegian authorities in 26 cases with a total amount of approximately 25 million. kr. U.D. records all matters where there is a notification of financial maladministration. The Christian People's Party appreciates that this is now being put out on the U.D.'s website, as the Danish U.D. does, and expects this to happen as quickly as possible, and at the latest in next year. The Danish UD's warning channel deviates from the Norwegian system by the fact that it is not external, while the Swedish authorities have not yet established such an institute aimed at defaulting aid funds. All statistics on Norwegian aid are publicly available. Much of this statistics is also published via the Norad web portal. Assistance statistics are currently being completed on an annual basis and reported to the OECD. The Christian People's Party supports the work now being done on developing a publication tool that allows statistics to be published continuously throughout the year, and hopes that this can be put in place as quickly as possible. The Christian People's Party also supports the IATI initiative as one of several initiatives and instruments to contribute to increased transparency, transparency and institution building in our countries of cooperation. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government and the IATI are well aware of the objective of transparency and transparency of assistance, and looks forward to further action in this important area. We still need to look at the possibility of improving practices in terms of transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2286	The debate shows broad agreement on the tough line we are running in the area of corruption, and the resolute attitude we have that everything we do should be far-reaching. There are two reasons why it's very important, in my opinion, and one is that the more open and the harder you fight corruption, the more you get back for the aid. You get more money for what you want to achieve, and you get a more open debate about it. There's going to be more insight into it, and so it's almost always getting better. The second is that it undermines the confidence of the entire aid policy if people perceive that not all the money comes out unabated. I think the most common question I get out is that it's nice that you go to Africa and help people there, but how do I know that the money I contribute does not go to corrupt dictators? It is the main and most frequently cited objection to Norwegian aid outside of Norway. We have to be able to guarantee that we are doing absolutely everything that is in human power in a difficult world, with great contradictions and with a lot of corruption, to ensure that it doesn't happen. Therefore, the red-green government has introduced an absolute zero tolerance for corruption, where the starting point is that if it does, it must be reported and it must be pursued. There are no excuses. Corruption is stealing money that would go to the world's poorest, that would go to education or health or to protect the rainforest. And using them on themselves or their political projects is and becomes unacceptable. I am absolutely convinced that Norway is now the world leader in this area. That doesn't mean we don't have to look for other ideas and other ways to do it. If anyone can find examples of countries that have implemented systems that are better than ours, I would very much like to hear about them to see and learn. As I see it, Norway is today among the countries that have come the longest in this. On the one hand, we have come the farthest by ensuring that our own systems fight corruption; on the other, we are the most active country internationally, in the UN, in the World Bank, by this corruption hunter network that Eva Joly set up, with the support of the National Audit Office, to Ecocrim, to media that fight corruption. So, we're the most active country in putting global corruption on the agenda. But should others have done more and better, let's learn from it. The starting point for everything we do, in my opinion, must be what I call the VG test. It's very simple. That's the question: can what you're doing now, stand on the first side of the VG and become known to all the people? If it can't, there's good reason to leave it alone. If it can, it's something we should and can do. Then everyone understands – it has now been updated with the WikiLeaks report – that there are themes on which we cannot have full publicity in relation to other nations, but that must be the absolute exception. The starting point is that what we do is good and legitimate and should be able to stand on the front pages of the newspapers. This IATI initiative that has emerged here is an excellent initiative. However, as others in the debate have said, it is primarily a donor country initiative. I would also like to mention the difficulties of saying that it is an absolute requirement for a country to introduce these requirements. The two main beneficiary countries for Norwegian aid today are Afghanistan and Sudan. We have both countries on the agenda because they are part of the overall Norwegian foreign and development policy. Jonas Gahr Støre and I have intended to see this as a whole. We pursue development policies as part of a broader foreign policy to promote Norwegian values. That is why we are in Afghanistan, and that is why we are in Sudan. At the same time, these are two of the world’s most corrupt countries. I can't vouch for the U.S. claims in the WikiLeaks report that the Vice President of Afghanistan had $300 million. kr i cash during a visit to Dubai. At least not many people travel around 300 million. kr that they have earned honestly, in cash. So we're working ashore on huge corruption and governance problems. But our assistance should be undiscovered by this, and it should contribute to moving it in the right direction and solving the problem, not being part of the problem. So I just want to say in the end that the Progress Party is making a considerable effort to address the problems of corruption in the aid. But their own budget will make the problem much bigger with the drastic reduction proposed there for all the Norads and the Ministry's control systems. It is not free to follow the money. It requires great competence, and it requires good people. If Norad and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not have these good people – they actually have a good part of them – it will be much harder to follow the money in the Norwegian system, not easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2301	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2304	There will also be less money to follow if the Budgetary Options of the Progress Party go through, so there is a certain connection. But that was not what I was going to attack. Although we operate in countries where, historically – and unfortunately probably in the present – it is a major corruption problem, it does not mean that we should renounce zero tolerance. The IATI, the Transparency Initiative, is, first and foremost, a system to report on aid use and provide a better overview, giving more knowledge. One argument against taking in that kind of outside requirement — if I understand the Council of State correctly — is that we in Norway are now the best in the world at this. But we also have to assume that many other donors are not at that level. If we get more into IATI, both donors and recipient countries, it'll be better overall in the world. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2312	Let there be no doubt that it is desirable that as many countries as possible end up on this initiative – it is a fine initiative – and that we have to do more of those kinds of things. I also fully agree that we should have zero tolerance for corruption in everything associated with Norwegian funds, including Norwegian funds in the enlarged sense, i.e. money we give through the World Bank or through the UN. There has been a tendency here to discuss this as if most of the Norwegian funds are bilateral aid. Remember, it's just a small part of the assistance. We give mass through non-governmental organisations and through multilateral organisations. We're going to have the same zero tolerance there. The starting point is that for each of the heads a Northman gives, whether they give it through the tax bill or give it directly to the Red Cross or the Church's Emergency Aid, there should be zero tolerance for corruption. But then we know that we work in some of the hardest and most corrupt countries in the world. They're usually corrupt because they're poor, and they're still poor because they're corrupt -- that's the bad circle. But countries that are poor are struggling with the fact that they don't have national audit, they don't have ecocrims, they often don't have enough people who can read newspapers to get them active media. They lack many of the institutions that we have to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2319	I just repeat my praise to the Council of States for having an offensive approach to these issues. He now stated — perhaps not entirely surprising — that Norway is also the world’s best in managing, monitoring and controlling aid. Well, at best there's some kind of homecoming here, which you have to take then. When we know that we're going in with, for example, too heavy billions to conserve rainforests, and when we know that Norway is channelling enough money through the IMF and in particular – 8–10 billion. kr – via the UN system within the concept of assistance, is my question: does the Council of State now state correctly that the United Nations system, which takes care of most of Norway’s aid money, is not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2326	Let me first give the questioner the concession that it's easy to be a home judge and easy to characterize. So we're going to have to take it with the pinched salt. But if anyone knows about other countries that have better systems that we can learn from, then let's get them out. So we're going to try to get better. As far as the United Nations is concerned, Norway is not able to dictate the United Nations systems. We would obviously want to tighten control and tougher reactions on several points. There have been cases where we have been in dialogue with the UN Organisation on what to do when there has been suspicion. We believe that the UN is indispensable. The UN is needed for the levels of international AIDS control, or UNICEF for the construction of schools in developing countries. There is no alternative to the UN, but we have to fight for the UN to set tougher standards in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2333	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten. [[See page 1131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2344	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2382	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2406	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party It is first voted on proposal No. 2 from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the budget is requested by the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2011, to set a target of a 25 % reduction in the administrative costs of business related to rules and fields and with a concrete indication of the time at which the target is to be achieved.’;» The voting boards showed that 79 votes were cast against the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party and 25 for the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 19.12.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2429	The Progress Party has included in the vote that, if our proposal falls, we will vote subsidiaryly for the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party. Mr Ergo has to make a proposal. 1 is added to the vote first.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2434	That is when proposal No is voted on. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to set as soon as possible a target of a 25 per cent reduction in the administrative costs of business related to rules and form fields by the end of 2012.’» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2451	We vote again on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, which we record that the Progress Party will support subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2463	Before referring to the Committee's position, the President shall draw attention to a correction to be made to the draft decision of the opinion: Document 8:174 S shall be Document 8:174 S; [[(2009)–2011]] [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2483	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 11 and 12, from Per Roar Bredvold on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 11 and 12. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to equate private and public providers of health, care and care services, in view of the exemption from VAT on services rendered.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to refer a matter to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible on the principle of the removal of taxes on wealth, the view of the subsidiary government on the reduction of the negative effects of taxes on wealth.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2516	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the 2012 State Budget, to file a case for the Storting whether the existing seed funds could raise additional private capital if the State increased its contribution, as well as to identify the need to establish new nationwide seed funds to meet the needs of other industries than those covered by the existing nationwide funds; such monitoring shall be carried out through contact with Norwegian industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Storting to present a case on how the Tax Fund Scheme can be made more attractive, including by raising the maximum amount of intra-corporate and external support, removing the hourly ceiling, removing the hourly limit for own employees, including unpaid effort and by explaining how the scheme can be set up to contribute better to research and development, including for larger enterprises. A change to the definition so that the scheme also includes innovation activities, as set out in: The ESA State aid rules are also assessed. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a direct deductibility scheme for R & D investment.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of seed investments and possible incentive models, including possible incentives for so-called business angels.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a decision to be taken on the evaluations of Innovation Norway and SIVA on how institutions and mechanisms should be organised, designed and organised in the future with a view to designing a more comprehensive and effective innovation system.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate better the commercialisation of research, including by providing a significant strengthening of the BIA programme and by assessing the establishment of several user-driven research venues according to the model of the BIA.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norway has a more central role internationally in developing the framework conditions for innovation, and it should be assessed to establish its own position as a national expert at R & D in the European Parliament, to ensure Norwegian participation in a future European industry PhD scheme, to develop a Norwegian strategy for the European Research Area and to integrate ERA into the EEA Agreement, and to professionalise the guidance for companies wishing to participate in EU-funded projects.’ [[ERA]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asking the Storting Government to introduce/promote a gift-enhancing scheme, whereby collaboration with industry on research projects triggers bonuses, as well as other measures that can contribute to increasing the commercialisation of research results.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of how the government can use its ordering role to promote and reward innovation and possible models and impacts of setting innovation as a public acquisition criterion.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of neutral VAT in the country, including in health businesses, in order to ensure greater competition in the operation of aid functions such as cleaning and canteen operations.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2581	Before referring to the position of the Committee, the President shall draw attention to a correction which must be made to the draft decision of the opinion. It says Document 8:180 S [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2597	Case No. 7, the statement by the Minister for the Environment and Development on the climate negotiations at the meeting of the Parties in Mexico has already been adopted, annexed to the Protocol. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2607	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Norwegian Government to demand all the countries of receipt of Norwegian aid to join the transparency initiative in the assistance.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2634	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the government to ensure full transparency around Norwegian assistance.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2647	The Left has announced its support for the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-30.ana.ud1088e2772	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
