ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e66	The representatives Ivar Kristiansen and Åge Starheim, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The formerly exempted alternate of the Hordaland County, Jette F. Christensen, has taken the seat. From 3 May to 6 May to take part in a conference in connection with the Parliamentary Day of the Interparliamentary Union in New York, an application for leave has been submitted by the representative Øyvind Vaksdal. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Terje Halleland, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e97	Terje Halleland is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e105	The representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e108	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Frank Bakke Jensen, Gunnar Gundersen, Arve Kambe and the undersigned, I would like to make proposals to strengthen the depreciation rules as a business policy instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e113	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e116	On behalf of the representative Laila Davøy and the undersigned, I promote a proposal for a representative to withdraw the emission permit to the gas power plant in Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e121	The proposals submitted will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e135	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e144	The Committee has examined the proposal for a representative of the Right 8:48 S on improving the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. In the proposal, the Government is asked to provide a comprehensive assessment of the conditions for the voluntary sector. The proposers point out inter alia: on measures ensuring the free disposal of own resources of the sector, and in particular on instruments relating to the tax system. In these kinds of cases, the ideological dividing lines between the opposition and the position are clearly shown. There is a distinction between the parties that will, on the one hand, provide framework conditions that free the sector from State control and, on the other hand, those parties that wish to govern the sector through State grants. Then it's not surprising that the red-green majority will reject the proposal. I assume that the majority itself will justify this in more detail. The minority supports the proposal that is being promoted, and I then take up the minority proposal in the vote. The majority refer to the voluntary notification when they reject this proposal. However, the voluntary service was mainly concerned with objectives and strategies related to State grant schemes. We now need a comprehensive review of instruments relevant to the voluntary sector, not least in relation to the tax system. The majority obviously don't want to discuss this. In the statement, the majority, very illustratively, writes that: «Public contributions to non-profit-making purposes should, as a general rule, be made after an overall balance between different purposes». Clearly, it is not said that the red-greens want the state to have control. The State shall determine who is to receive a grant. Or as it says in the letter from the Council of State: ‘Public governance and control of measures to be taken into account is desirable [[...]] [[...]] Yes, then it may not be so strange that the VAT exemption never comes into place during this government. Then it may not be so strange that the compensation scheme is flawed. Then it might not be so strange that the gift voucher is on the spot resting. And then it might not be so strange that we have a volunteer register that works poorly. No, it is also not nice that more and more teams and associations complain about public governance and control. It's getting tighter under this government. Organisations experience bureaucratic resistance. Fortunately, Norway now has a strong civil society. We should be grateful for that. Since this is the Storting's first case after 1 May, there may be reason to recall that this is actually a sphere between market and state, an arena for community. What the Christian People's Party community is talking about is more than just a state. For the red-green government, state and community are the same. Under today's government, civil society is squandered between the market and the state. I am concerned about this development. I am also, of course, disappointed that the Senterpartiet is part of the red-green drive in this area. The red-greens still point to how much they have allocated to the voluntary sector. Well, first of all, it will always be so that any government grants more than what it did for different purposes, as long as we have an economic growth. Secondly, the Government does not address the real challenge: how the support is distributed, and by whom. There is no doubt that tax relief will mean much to the sector. At the top of it all, the majority of the committee is trying to do something that could be called some real intrusions. When, for example: claims that the Bondevik II government zeroed out the Free Fund allocation, it is directly wrong. The truth is, Freefonds were reduced by 4 million. kr on the State budget for 2005, while Freefonds was simultaneously added 135 new millions outside the State budget due to the conversion of the key. In 2005, therefore, voluntary organisations received a formidable increase. From 2005 onwards, the appropriations allocated to Freefonds were collected under the budget of the KKD. When the majority uses the grassroots percentage as an example of their bet, I have to remind you that there is no system that adds more funds to the sector, it is a hint of the tipping surplus. There is also reason to recall that many of the voluntary organisations that contribute to the welfare society are reporting back on a government tender practice that helps to strangle these important contributions to our well-being. A real welfare society is not a welfare state alone. There is well-being through contributions from all of us in a community, through state, through private, and not least through voluntary, non-profit institutions. That the distance between the Christian People's Party and the Red-Greens is very great in this sort of thing, we knew. The setting shows that this is still the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e174	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e177	I just have to say that when I heard the representative, Håbrupkes, I discovered that we are in two different worlds in relation to how we experience the voluntary sector in Norway, and not least the efforts that the current government has made for the voluntary sector. If you go out and ask the voluntary organisations and Freedom Norway if they believe that the government that is sitting has not lifted a finger for the voluntary sector, I think you will get a completely different answer from the presentation that the representative Håbreek has now given. It is a fact that volunteering in Norway is enormous. Norway is at the top of the world as compared to the proportion of volunteers in volunteering over Sweden, Iceland and Denmark — other Nordic countries. That's the way it has been, and that's how we want it to be in the years to come. That is why we have a government that has spent the last four years working enormously to strengthen voluntary work, and which will also do a lot in the coming years to strengthen voluntary work – because we know that Norwegian society is built on volunteering in many ways. Our welfare society began with voluntary efforts – from not least the sanitary women, who built hospitals and feeding rooms at work, to the housewives who took initiative in kindergartens. We have many other examples of what happened. Today, we know that very much of the rescue work is going on – in the context of mountain rescue, or if we get oil spills off our coast – is based on volunteering. Estimates show that the unremunerated public sector effort is more than 180 000 yearly works and is 4 pst. of gross domestic product. There is no doubt that the red-green government, as I mentioned earlier, has had full pressure and focus on volunteering since it took over in 2005. In 2007, the review of the voluntary sector that the opposition is now calling for took place. It was a volunteer message that was comprehensive. It had a full review of the economic situation in the voluntary sector. It set out major ambitions to improve the economy, to reduce bureaucracy and less detailed management and to increase freedom for the voluntary sector. This voluntary communication has since been followed up by both appropriations and a number of actions. It's just looking at the government budgets for the last four years. Then we see that the appropriations for volunteering have increased significantly. It's spent 127 million. kr more to the voluntary sector. Until now, 81 new volunteer centres have been established, and we know that there will be more. And we know what volunteer agencies generate from voluntary efforts. Free funds have increased by 43 million. kr since the Bondevik government left the rudder to the red-green government, and it is a fact that on the 2005 state budget it was set by zero kroner to Frifond. It's true that there's money going to be spent on the games, but they're going to be added. So today's government has granted 43 million. extra to Frifond. Not enough with that, we have put in place a new VAT compensation scheme from 1 January. That means it's 200 million this year. kr over the government budget for the voluntary sector. It is the largest single effort ever made by the voluntary sector over the state budget. In addition, we know that there will be additional money in the next few years, and there will be a VAT compensation scheme for goods and services amounting to NOK 1.2 billion in 2014. In addition, we also know – if I continue – that the key has changed, the payments are DKK 1 billion higher than they were in 2005, and for 2008 and 2009, an additional DKK 1.4 billion has been paid to compensate for lost automatic receipts, which have been taken by the Norwegian Typing fund. We've introduced a grass root fraction, and it's true that the total grass root fraction does not amount to more money, but this money belongs to direct local teams and organisations. It can be concluded that this government has had full pressure on the voluntary sector. The tax systems have also been looked at, among other things. for 2008, the limit on the obligation to pay an employer’s tax was taken into account, and the limit on how much individual can receive in wages without having to tax it. So it's also done a lot in these areas. In addition, I can mention that in the years to come, the voluntary sector will face major challenges, and they will take the existing government seriously. We are proud of the efforts of the Red-Green Government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e194	Today’s social development puts the voluntary sector under pressure. It is necessary to adapt and renew policies to stimulate and facilitate growth and development in this sector. I would like to stress that the public should respect and facilitate voluntary work in Norway. The activity of non-governmental organisations is primarily self-valued. The objective must be to maintain a significant level of self-financing in order to ensure that organisations around the country are strong. It is also important that they have a free and independent position. Voluntary organisations need to spend a lot of time and resources on documentation, applications and reporting. There are signals that we get from volunteering into the Storting, and we have to do something about this. I understand when trustees are frustrated by the fact that a large proportion of total work goes with administrative work to public authorities. That's not the way to do voluntary work. It is important to respond to the strong signals of volunteering right in this area. A comprehensive review of the framework conditions ensuring the independence of the sector and the free disposal of a greater share of its revenue should be carried out. Framework conditions and economic instruments for the voluntary sector must be organised as far as possible so as to strengthen organisations through means over which voluntary activity itself has the right to exist and that they are not dependent on the State. The tax credit limit for gifts to non-governmental organisations has long been at a standstill of NOK 12 000. This limit needs to be increased and this should be assessed in the further work. We should look at other countries, where it is more common for private donations to culture and volunteer. The tax exemption shall not be essential for those who give gifts to non-governmental organisations. We now need a comprehensive review of the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. State and government control too much of the money flows to the voluntary sector. Freedom must govern itself as far as possible, and the State must facilitate the creation of voluntary incomes. The Progress Party will have a strong voluntary sector and will ensure a real opportunity to draw revenue from something other than gambling. It is necessary to make it easier for voluntary organisations, especially small teams and associations, to organise their own lotteries. Society is changing, and tax rules must also be adapted. In addition, there would be an advantage if culture got more legs to stand on. It may be unfortunate that too many people are unilaterally dependent on state support. If several private individuals could give gifts with tax benefits, cultural organisations would become more independent of government appropriations. The cultural sector is a sector of high social value. The tax credit for gifts to culture will be a positive contribution to a significant growth in cultural organisations. The deduction may act as a catalyst for more culture and volunteering. It is now important that the VAT system will not lead to unnecessary red tape in the form of reporting and record-keeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e213	I am pleased that an overall opposition is behind what was the right starting point, namely the need for a concrete review of what is the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. Of course, we do not ask for any large, generally made big message in the knowledge and the broad, as it was before, but relate to the big message. What we need now is more of a type of action plan that clarifies what means we can have at our disposal and how these means can be put into practice. It is clear how the bourgeois parties and government parties look for a completely different approach. Where government parties look rather unilaterally at public appropriations, purely budgeted on the basis of the political criteria used by the Government, we look from the civil side for instruments that are neutral in their approach. The VAT compensation, for example, is such a neutral arrangement. The tax measures that we are proposing are precisely such a device where the state is not the leader in relation to what is to be chosen, and so is governing in relation to the development of the voluntary sector. Because if you put up economic solutions where you get money, assuming you give the right political answer, you will in the long run get a volunteer who will act against it, and who will be driven by what I would call political correctness. The government responds by sunbathing in increased appropriations over the last few years. Yes, it's great with increased appropriations, but I want on behalf of the Right – and I think the rest of the opposition – to also demand a place in the sun, in the sense that as far as I remember, we've been on every penny. It is not the theme at this time. The theme now is the balance between what is the government budget and what is the other revenue, from other sources. It is important that we have a good balance to maintain the integrity of the voluntary sector over time. In the notes, government parties – I would say – are very well aware of this, perhaps more clearly than they have been before, when arguing that government appropriations are more targeted and accurate than gifts are. Yes, that's exactly what's the problem – targeted and accurate when it comes to what? Yes, of course, it is in relation to what the Government wants at all times – what goals it wants to achieve, and what success it has in achieving them. That's exactly what we want to avoid. That's exactly what's the point. We want to avoid being able to pick out goals from the state and guide volunteering against them. The Freedom Communication was based throughout its structure on how volunteering could contribute to the realization of Government policy within a number of price-worthy themes, but anyway! It was about integration, social cohesion, international solidarity, etc. There were nine chapters, as far as I remember, all of which had their goal as a headline. I believe that just the tax measures that we imagine will give us a greater breadth and greater diversity. It will help maintain dynamism in the voluntary sector and make civil society a sustainable and dynamic factor in society as a whole. And then there's more money out of it, because by a gift, the tax deduction is not necessarily 100 pst. You could imagine tax incentives that made the funds that were allocated to the voluntary sector actually bigger than what will be the proceeds for the state. Then you don't want to administer anything away along the way, and that's also a point. Otherwise, I would like to pay particular attention to the government's point of cultural construction. I think I'll come back to that in the next round, because now is the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e232	It's quite correctly observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e235	Good spirit is the driving force behind voluntary effort. Voluntary organisations create arenas for belonging and cohesiveness in the community and provide us with valuable experience building democracy and creating equivalent citizens. Voluntary organisations are important partners in promoting local culture and tradition and in public health and business development. I'm happy with every opportunity we get to discuss volunteering, both in the Storting and in other arenas. I think the same applies to other representatives from the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV. For this government has set in motion a voluntary effort there is reason to be proud of. The government made a voluntary announcement in 2007. The Communication identified major ambitions for better economy, less bureaucracy, less detailed management and increased freedom. The central party therefore sees no reason for a new review of the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. We've had that. Now there is a need for follow-up. It is concrete action that we need, and that is what this government has been doing. The new VAT compensation scheme, which came into force on 1 January 2010, is the largest voluntary effort on the State budget. Until 2014, we will escalate this scheme up to NOK 1 billion. It is money that will be of great importance to the voluntary sector, money that will be involved and strengthen local involvement and the spirit of hard work. The red-green government has put culture and volunteer on the agenda, and we have followed up with money on the table. When I hear the opposition today spend time criticising today's government for the volunteer effort, I can't say that I'm directly surprised, but it's quite special that you're not willing to admit the effort we've actually had. I'm not going to use numbers that show the difference between today's government and that government, among other things. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party were a part of it, but you can't escape the fact that the initiative of today's government has been voluntary, is a very different bet from the one you've had in the past. That's a bet you haven't seen before. While the proposal from the Right involves a new review, we are concerned with concrete action. When the representative, Håbrek, said that today's government has not invested in volunteering, it would have been interesting to hear how he would mention the bet of the government of which the Christian People's Party was part. The job is not finished. Adjustments will always be needed, and new solutions will always be needed. But we are well on the way with a bet that will have an incredibly important impact on the voluntary sector. There's a stake that we haven't seen in the past. The centre party will continue to have a good dialogue with volunteering to find good solutions that strengthen local involvement and strengthen the spirit of hard work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e254	The representative Gjul said we can't claim that they haven't lifted a finger. I'm not supposed to say that either. The problem with this government in terms of voluntary policy is that they use both hands — and a little too actively. The second thing she said was that the images we give of volunteering don't match what you find in Volunteering Norway. I would then encourage the representative Gjul to take part in the annual debates we have with Freedom Norway. I don't think anyone is going to press to take the Workers' Party's place in that debate, because there has been a Urias post under this government to sit and represent the Government in the debate with Freedom Norway. So there won't be any progress if the representative Gjul takes on the job of defending it. What is it that volunteering reacts like that? Well, there's much stronger control with the money given to volunteering. Just to give some pictures of this: let's look at the whole evolution of the free sources of income that organizations have had since the morning. When Fredrikke Marie Qvam made sure to build a nursing home and provide nurse training in Norway, the small lotteries were at the time and in the future of voluntary organisations. After the war, the state created Norsk Tipping, but the lotteries were to belong to the organizations. So, in 1995, the scraploads came to Thorbjørn Jagland. At that time, it was agreed that the state would compete for the scrapload of the organisations, but the machines, they would be the sole mark of the organisations. It was actually like this for a while for me, as at the time working in organizations, that we got no applications to the ministry for money, because the organizations didn't have machines. The fact that organisations refused to have slot machines led to public support being cut at that time – it was the machines that were supposed to be the source of revenue for organisations. Well, neither is it. All the free sources of income that the organisations have had have had have been dramatically tightened up in the last 50 years. Then we have to see if we can find other good solutions, for example. creating a small bureaucratic system linked to VAT – a general support system not subject to State governance. But sail here you can make a huge bureaucracy. I think the Center Party really deserves praise for Soria Moria I, it's very good about volunteering there. The problem is that it has not been implemented. You have a lot of beautiful words, but you haven't done it. It is quite clear that the Workers' Party dropped a bit during those negotiations, and let the Center Party write in its points. But then they woke up again, and then it ended up implementing them. Then I can – because Thommess didn't have time – say something about cultural buildings. Some of the basic problem here, too, is that you're so eager to control. And there's no understanding of proportions in the support between organizations. The grassroots percentage has led to a massive increase in support for popular organisations – even more so for sport. We in the Control Committee have now been in a hearing talking about sponsoring funds, of which Norwegian Typing spends hundreds of millions, and only on those organisations where they have PR-benefits. And it's not 4H and the Scout, it's sports. We're constantly ignoring that all the systems that are being created are going to give more to the big ones and less to the small ones. Among the losers are the cultural buildings. We build sports buildings around that are nice and beautiful, while all the cultural buildings run by volunteers are just falling due – because there are no systems that can help what was built on hard at a time when work was cheap and materials were expensive. Now it's the other way around. There are other challenges to volunteering in that area, and that has not been addressed. The main problem here is not that the government has not granted money, but that it grants money in a way that involves a great distortion of volunteering, where the big, commercial and very active in the public win, and the small losses. You also see that more and more of the funds are being managed and you want more and more opinions about who is worthy of support, and who is doing things that you like politically. There's actually the difference between the opposition and the position here. With this, I would say that the Left supports the proposal that exists in the case from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e275	There are a number of claims in this debate. The first is that I would have a Urias mail in contact with the volunteer. I definitely don't experience that. I feel that we have a very good cooperation with volunteering, and that we have improved the framework conditions for volunteering in many areas in recent years. The fact that we only give support to organisations that we like politically lack a deepening, because it is that volunteering itself allocates its resources. It's not like the government goes in and says that tippers should go to the organization that we like best, and then the others don't get the same amount. There are pure accusations, on which there is no evidence. On behalf of the Ministry of Culture, the Central Statistical Office has drawn up satellite accounts for the voluntary sector. The objective is to illuminate a sector that is poorly covered in the ordinary national accounts. The satellite accounts show that the value creation of non-profit institutions and non-profit institutions represented a total of DKK 35 billion in 2007. This is equal to 1.5 pst. of gross domestic product. As the majority of the Committee has pointed out, employment in the sector is intended for 70 000 annual works. If unpaid work is included, more than 180 000 annual works are linked to non-profit and voluntary activities. The major welfare tasks shall be a public responsibility. Many of the tasks previously undertaken by the voluntary sector are currently public welfare services. However, at the same time, some of the tasks undertaken by the voluntary sector today should not, in my view, be included in the welfare state. They are carried out simply better by the voluntary sector, for example: on the issue of the creation of networks for refugees and the creation of social meeting places for people suffering from mental illness. The state can't get you a friend, it can volunteer sector. Therefore, we should be concerned with the boundaries between what should be the responsibility of the welfare state and what should be the task of volunteering. In many cases, volunteering does a better job than the public can do. The most central strategy of the Government’s voluntary policy is to contribute to a generally better framework for the sector. A number of measures of importance for the voluntary sector are already in place or under preparation. During the period 2005-2010, the Ministry of Culture’s budget for admissibility has increased by 350 million. kr. Many new major initiatives have also been undertaken in the field of volunteering. VAT scheme for non-governmental organisations is the largest commitment to volunteering for the State budget ever. In 2010, 396 million were allocated. kr to the scheme, an increase of 200 million. kr from 2009. The scheme should be escalated to NOK 1.2 billion. It's a significant rise. The Government will also introduce in 2010 a new VAT compensation scheme for sports activities building sports facilities. This mechanism will be submitted to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget. I would also like to briefly remind you that a new key was introduced in 2009. It meant more money for volunteering. The grass root fraction of Norwegian Typing contributed 210 million. kr to non-governmental organisations in 2009. The Voluntary Register will help to improve and facilitate interaction between the voluntary sector and public authorities, and many new volunteer centres have made it easier for many to participate in voluntary work. Voluntary centres are important meeting places for voluntary action, participation and belonging to the community. The increase in grants to Frifonds, which the representative Gjul had in mind, has been important to stimulate activity and participation among children and young people. All these measures have strengthened the voluntary sector. We will also review the legislation in view of whether we can contribute to simplification so that we can also contribute to the voluntary sector in this way. I believe that we have made a great effort for volunteering in recent years, and these descriptions that become pure claims that cannot be documented, that we are driving the voluntary sector, fall on its own unfairness. Increased funding for the voluntary sector has given the voluntary sector increased independence and increased opportunities to operate its social mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e295	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e298	We agree that volunteering does a lot of great work around the country, and we depend on volunteering. The Council of State also commends volunteering in the clouds, and they have an important role to play in society. But there are also strong signals from the voluntary nature that they feel that they are using much of the voluntary work of bureaucracy, applications, reporting and administrative work, etc. Can the Council of State suggest in what ways she can help volunteer to simplify the work they have every day? Or does the Council of State not see that volunteering spends much unnecessary time on bureaucracy and unnecessary work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e307	Now, when we introduce a VAT compensation scheme, it means that some organisations need to spend more time on schemes that have not been used up in the past. If money is to be paid, you have to be able to show what the total operating costs are, or if you choose: a system based on documented expenditure. We have focused on contributing to a lot of information about this scheme. We have had a broad consultation round on this scheme with a view to making recordings. Then there will be a new code in place during the first half of June of this year. When we see how this works, we will evaluate this in terms of simplification during the first application period. The cross-ministerial work undertaken will continue in dialogue with Freedom Norway and other non-governmental organisations, in order to contribute to the simplification of the framework conditions for the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e314	I realized in the articles of the Council of State that she has no ambitions to control volunteering, and that she believes that the opposition has a job to do to document it. We'll probably get back to that at later intersections. But if it is the case that the Council of State would like to see a voluntary sector developing further on its own premises and on its own premises, what is the content of being ‘comprehensive’ and ‘targeted’ mentioned in the comments? What is the problem with a tax incentive scheme for gifts? Because it's a good thing that the state saves work, and getting gifts brings obvious benefits in terms of the diversity you want. What is the problem of thinking in that direction instead of taking the money into the treasury and distributing it to the volunteer afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e321	In recent years, the Government has implemented a cultural promise. One of the reasons why we've done this is that we haven't moved on to the line that was the position of the former government, that is, to reduce taxes so that we got less on public expenditure. It has given a significant boost to culture, and it has helped us to have been able to finance many, good cultural buildings that we could not have financed if we had pursued the policy where tax laws were the main theme. Today, we have very good deduction systems to support non-governmental organisations, but these are not the main lines of government policy. We partly finance volunteering, cultural life and sport over the state budget, but mainly through good general arrangements where sport and cultural life themselves govern the appropriations, including: through the typing key.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e328	The documentation that Thommessen indicated that one should come back to the next crossroads, we can contribute quite quickly. In its statement, the Council of State shows that the increased appropriations for voluntary activities increase the level of freedom. Let me quote from the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee on the matter, where the Ministry of Finance has expressed its opinion on the right of deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations. The Ministry of Finance claims that the type of tax exemptions and deduction schemes reduces the effectiveness of the distribution policy. And they say, «Public governance and control of the measures and objectives to be met by public funds is desirable.» It further states: ‘Government supports a wide range of non-governmental organisations, but such public contributions for non-profit purposes should as a general rule be made after a comprehensive balance between different objectives.’;» The question is: does the Minister of Culture agree with the Ministry of Finance in these assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e345	Of course, I agree with the Ministry of Finance's assessment in this case. I think it is very appropriate to introduce a VAT compensation scheme that benefits the entire volunteer. That's absolutely certain. This does not mean that we go in and govern by the state which non-governmental organisations are to be compensated under this scheme, but it is a good and accurate scheme that goes to volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e350	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e355	Many of the good experiences in our lives take place together with friends and family in events and activities behind voluntary organizations. We all know what the Red Cross and Norwegian Public Aid mean for the security of a community, and what a thriving sporting and cultural life has to say for well-being and activity. This is the glue that creates the good life of a community, and the connection between sport, volunteering, public health and preventive work I see as the starting point of a living and inclusive community. Voluntary efforts amount to as much as 115,000 annual works, and have an annual translation of 40 billion kroner. I am pleased that Right's whole-hearted policy supports the work being done by firefighters in their local environment, and that our policy is a declaration of trust to all those who participate in voluntary work. Most volunteer organizations on the local level are small, and there is a lot of hard work going on around the kitchen table at home, in the clubhouse or in the prayer house for that matter. Paperwork and bureaucracy are the misuse of time for voluntary organisations, and it is inconceivable that the state should have high revenues on the efforts they make for the benefit of the large community. For many years, the right has been working actively to facilitate the work of voluntary organisations, and the right is proud to have participated in pressing the red-green government to meet the requirement for VAT compensation. Now we're waiting to see if the scheme is how it's been promised. Right wants to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. Right will raise the salary limit, so that more people are paid for hard work without having to pay taxes and pay employers' contributions. It will make it easier to get people who can make an effort, and it will not least reduce paperwork in voluntary organisations. Right will also increase the tax deduction on gifts to voluntary organisations and grant tax exemptions for membership of voluntary organisations within a total framework, as well as allowing the voluntary sector to receive more ‘lordless inheritance’. The right would also use several hundred million dollars as part of the 2009 crisis package to reduce the legacy of funding sports facilities. It would have been an important handshake for sports Norway. Right-wing policies facilitate living and inclusive communities, where cultural life and voluntary organisations play a central role. Right sees that the connection between sport, volunteering, public health and prevention creates the good life of a community. One of the Right's taboos is secure community. That means, among other things. that we will facilitate the day-to-day development of voluntary organisations and that different types of organisations will be given conditions that enable them to fulfil an important role in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e376	I want to give the Council of State right on one important point: this government has done a lot of good in terms of non-governmental organisations. But today's attitude and debate show that there is an important distinction between the opposition and the Government in terms of voluntary policy. It's about the view of volunteering as a value in itself in Norwegian society. The fact that people in Norway have channels to trigger their commitment to the community and to other people through non-governmental organisations has a value in itself – not just a value insofar as these organisations meet a need of the state or public at all times. That's the basic ideological distinction. As a result, in the opposition, we believe that organisations will be better served to have more of their income from the state in the form of exemptions from VAT and tax deductions from gifts than through earmarked targeted grant schemes that have been argued for by the majority of the caste. Governments called for examples and evidence of public governance. There are a lot of examples. In institutional activities, with which the non-profit sector operates, this government is now regularly putting an end to fine institutions that have made a huge effort over many years and have built solid trade unions. HSH, which is no under-use of the opposition here in Stortingen, but the organisation of these institutions, says that if this policy continues, in five to ten years, none of these ideal institutions will probably be left in the field of health, care and child protection. The last example now is a great child protection institution at Karmøy, Solstrand Children's Protection Centre, which got four years' contract, but it was broken after one year because the Bufetat region west would save 100 million. kr on child protection. I could mention from today's newsprint the Salvation Army and the Church's Social Service, who have offered to help the public get foster parents because there are more than 700 children in line to have foster homes, but they have been told that no, it should be done publicly. Why in the world can't those who've been operating in this field for decades be allowed to help get foster parents when the kids don't get this opportunity if they don't? The youth of the Salvation Army was deprived of state support because they had opinions that were not politically correct. Has the state council forgotten that? Luckily, it was cleaned up, but we still have examples of a church community not being allowed to run Christmas fair because it is not non-profit-making, and a mission organisation is not allowed to do lottery because it is not a humanitarian purpose. These are examples of what the minority points to in the setting. I don't think it's as idyllic as the Council of State wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e385	Interestingly, the representatives of the government parties are trying to turn this debate into a question of appropriations, while there is basically an ideological difference, which the debate reveals very clearly. Both the representative Olemic Thommessen and Trine Skei Grande have described a policy by the Government that contains progressive governance and perhaps also a favouring of large organisations in contrast to the many small ones. The council replied that these were undocumented claims. I believe she also said in reply to a reply that the VAT compensation introduced from this year onwards benefits the entire volunteer. That's not right. I asked just under two weeks ago a question to the Council of State in relation to the regulations that have been out at the hearing and which most favour the large organizations at the expense of the small ones. There should not have been much within different non-governmental organisations, small organisations or smaller organisations, in order to know that having a turnover of NOK 300000 requires a fairly large organisation. It is the turnover requirement on the basis of which organisations are to be able to obtain reimbursement of their VAT expenses. There are a number of small independent organisations that then fall outside this scheme. Voluntaryness Norway estimates that there are over 100,000 so-called organisational units in Norway. There are both independent organisations and local teams, local units in large national organisations. Freedom Norway also says that its members represent 50,000, i.e. only half of them, in Norway. Thus, there is a large amount of small local independent non-governmental organisations that are not covered by the Freewill of Norway’s large national organisations with their local branches. These organisations are now completely excluded from the scheme put in place by the Government. There is a discrimination between large and small organisations that is quite unfair, and it is in fact a policy that gives more to those who have the most from before. It is the large, resource-intensive organizations that benefit from the Government's new VAT arrangements. There will be an increasing class distinction in Norway between the small, resource-weak organisations and the large, resource-intensive. It is quite alarming that this is the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e399	I want to talk about the thread where the representative Warloe escaped, namely the issue of large and small organisations. This is meant to be an input to the Government about what you might want to do in the future. The opposition was critical both when the matter of grassroots shares and the case of the Voluntary Register was presented in Stortinget. We voted against those arrangements because we wanted a more thorough review, and the concerns we had at the time have unfortunately been confirmed. Of the statistics so far available for the grass root fraction, we see that it is mainly the heavy, powerful organizations that have an organisational apparatus, and that have financial backs to run the PR for their business and spend money driving the PR to get grassroots followers, or what we should now call them, who run out of farms with the most. As I have noticed that the Council of State has taken the floor here – and I am pleased to – I will allow myself to ask the Council of State to elaborate a little on how the Government is thinking in the future about the small organizations and the relationship with the Register of Freedom, because the Register of Freedom is the key not only to the grassroots share, but also to the VAT compensation and probably to other measures that we will come back to in the future. The second challenge I want to give the Council of States is the question of cultural building, and then it's the small cultural buildings I'm talking about. It is a youth house, the buildings of Norway's Youth Battle, for example. There are smaller community houses, and there are a lot of smaller cultural buildings across the country that have been struggling with maintenance for many years, and that have major problems in providing funds. In our proposal, we have raised questions about whether it would not be a good thing to imagine a tax incentive scheme to solve that issue. We all know that the Council of State has significant challenges in finding resources for cultural buildings. I criticise her in and of itself not that it is not an exhaustive source, for this has been a challenge for a long time. There's an endless wish list for construction that needs money. And then my question to the council is, if she doesn't want to use the tax incentive and think that the voluntary sector can mobilise private ideal money, does she think this is soluble over the state budget? Can we expect large increases, for example? under the Culture Building Grant Scheme? In conclusion, a small example, but a fairly good example of governance was when the Council of State, Gishe, was hired by a diversity secretary in Freewill Norway to ensure that volunteering was diverted into diversity in its activities. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e414	Then it is at least the way that speaking time should be controlled, and the time was thus out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e417	Many from the opposition have described a reality picture in which it is difficult to recognize. It is surprising that the Left, for example, believes that sport is getting too much money. When you're in opposition, it's like everything should have been done overnight, and it should have been done pretty much yesterday. The centre party is engaged in good and stable arrangements. We have put in place a system of VAT compensation, which is to be escalated by NOK 1 billion, and there are more than many opposition parties that could boast in their time. We have allocated money to 25 new volunteer centres in 2009, and now we are approaching 80 pieces during our period. We've strengthened the Free Fund by 43 million. kr. How to claim that bets on volunteer centres and Freefonds are bets on the big and the commercial are difficult to understand. Free funds and volunteer centres are a direct commitment to local commitment and good spirit. The opposition will make the sector more dependent on funds from the private sector and free the sector, while wanting more time for activity. It's not in the jump. Then there will be more lottery, more begging gifts from the private actors, those with a lot of money, instead of time for football and more theater. Yes, we want to use public funds. I have not met a single representative of the voluntary sector who is dissatisfied with the effort we have had. They're asking for even more. They want more of the efforts that the government has made. We want to spend less time begging for money, less time on lottery. We want more time for activity, to have the opportunity to play football, run theatre – what is actually involved and strengthens the local commitment, which is part of and motivates the spirit of hard work locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e430	There's something a little bit contradictory about the opposition's attack here. On the one hand, one is against the grass root, where each type can determine where its share in volunteering is going. Then the main problem is that this only benefits the big ones. So here the opposition will control more and decide who will get this money – that is, not each tip should determine. Then you think that if those who have money to spend on cultural houses and other purposes get tax deductions, they'll get more freedom. I do not believe that increased tax credits will lead to similar increases in the appropriations for the voluntary sector. I believe in other types of instruments. I think it is quite appropriate to introduce a VAT compensation scheme, and the opposition is still not able to explain to me whether we are running which non-governmental organisations are going to receive money. So we're not going to do that. That's what volunteering itself determines. The representative of the Højbrätten knows very well that I have not been a member of a scheme where the Youth of the Salvation Army is deprived of the state subsidy because they have a different view of homophilis than the law says. The representative of Warloe has been involved with the small organisations. I have checked this with various registers. I assume he's referring to the 1998 local layer study in Hordaland. But it's not like all these organizations he describes here are individual associations. Many of these are locomotive layers linked to a central link. They will thus be compensated for part of their VAT expenditure. And as far as I understood the representative, the situation of the arcorps in particular has been discussed. We have been in contact with several archecorps in Bergen in view of their situation. First of all, many of them today get grass root fraction, even though it's not traditional sport in that sense. Sandviken's Bataljon got $25,000 in grassroots share last year. It is a significant support. However, some of these arcs will have the opportunity to receive VAT compensation, while others can only be compensated for VAT expenditure if they can account for their turnover together — if they do so in common. This is a pretty unbureaucratic system, so these numbers that Warloe has in them are not right. We don't control volunteering, volunteering governs itself. It's quite obvious that they're getting more power over themselves, with better framework conditions, that they've been given over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e442	It has been an interesting, but also in many ways a clarifying debate. In the case of Freefonds, which many have used as an example here, it is of course the total transfers to Freefonds that are central here. Then it's great that the red-green government has used the opportunity to increase transfers to them. But when it is constantly repeated that they were cut to zero under the Bondevik II government, it is that if you add up the total transfers to Freefonds, both above the state budget and through the department and funds, the Bondevik II government increased the transfers to Freefonds more than the Stoltenberg government has done. But that's not the most central question either. In fact, in the case of volunteer centres, there are municipalities and large organisations that own them to a large extent – just as they have been said. Then it's called for if the opposition doesn't recognize the increased commitment to volunteering that we've seen under the red-green government. Well, let's do that. I commented on this in my article. It was also commented on by the representative Thommessen from the Right very clearly that we see that. And we've been involved in supporting it. But the challenge and criticism from the opposition has just been about the management of voluntary organisations and the way they are used to delineate the space for action. Documentation is required. Several examples have been mentioned, but it is only to refer to the letter of reply from the department that was sent to the committee in connection with the examination of the matter we are dealing with today. It is clear that it is skeptical to facilitate increased private contributions to the voluntary sector, because it weakens the effectiveness of the distribution policy, and because it seeks more control and control as regards the balance of what these funds are going to do, and not less. So it makes it a problem that when you get more of private gifts, it takes time, and there's less time for football and other things. It's a profound misunderstanding of what this really is about. We are discussing the framework conditions for the voluntary sector. The voluntary sector is in its nature private, in the sense that it's me and you and what we do in our spare time, how we spend our money, how we spend our time -- that's what is genuine about volunteering. That it's a problem that you're dependent on people choosing to spend their time and resources on it, is exactly what's voluntary, that's what's genuine, that's what we're discussing. It is precisely the genuine will that must be lifted and given conditions, that funds be given – also above the State budget – but not least the freedom that they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e456	This is, of course, a debate on the framework conditions for the voluntary sector and, in this way, a rather Prospective debate – at least it should be. I'm not going to dig too deep into all the details, but my point in a previous post was the VAT compensation scheme, as an example of an important public instrument, by the state, to make it better for non-governmental organisations. And if that's the case, which is my opinion -- I'm recording that the Council of State disagrees with that -- I think I could have evidence that it leads to an increase in class distinction in voluntary Norway. Then it's a big problem, in my opinion. Now I have to use the opportunity, as a representative from Bergen, to thank the Council of State for a touching concern for the archecorps in Bergen, which is a local example of this type of organisation. But I can probably promise the Council of State that the list of the type of smaller, independent non-governmental organisations is quite long in Norway. I mentioned the calculation from Freewill Norway. They represent, according to their own tasks, half of the organisational units in Norway, including local teams, etc. This means, then, that there must be quite a lot of organisations in Volunteering Norway that all the big ones are not catching up. That's what the statistics say. Finally, I would just like to draw the attention of the Council of State to hearing replies from the Directorate of Integration and Diversity after the regulation has now been out for consultation, where they point out exactly the same issue, then for immigrant organisations around Norway. So it's not like Tamil Health Association, like me, for example. known from Bergen, is part of a nationwide large national organisation. So that's not the case. Of course, there are many examples in other cities and other places. Thus, the kind of associations around – immigrant organisations and many, many others – fall outside these rules. Now I registered that the Council of State explained from the pulpit that to take that example again, the arcorps from Bergen can just merge and deliver something in common. So there are 15 independent legal organizations, legal entities. It is a rather eye-catching information that these can now go together and submit something together. That might mean that other types of organisations, whether they're based in Oslo or somewhere else, can go together and produce something just to get VAT compensation. I assume that this information will be included in the legislation that is being sent out and made known to the organisations. There is eye-catching information in relation to what has been at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3090]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e487	Reforms are often much easier to adopt than to implement. The promise of knowledge is no exception. Wide agreement does not guarantee that the necessary measures will be put in place and that the final result will be as expected. If we do not now pay attention to the main bearer of the Knowledgelift, the teacher's competence, the Right fears that many students will still leave Norwegian school without the necessary knowledge and skills to master further education and participation in the labour market. Annual access to teachers in Norwegian school amounts to about 3 pst. of the total amount of teacher. With new teacher training, the school will in a few years be able to recruit teachers with more specialised competence and greater professional depression. Such a conversion of teacher training — away from the general teacher who was able to do a little bit about it — is an important step towards the necessary upgrading of Norwegian teachers’ skills. With an annual renewal of about 3 pst. The importance of continuing training for teachers who are already in school is stated by the teachers. Storing and government have high ambitions on behalf of Norwegian school. The ambitions must now be followed up by measures that enable us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. The promise of knowledge is in many ways within its perhaps most critical phase. The expectations for the reform are quite high, and teachers are faced with significantly better continuing training opportunities, because the reform is built around the teacher in many ways. Freedom of method and less detailed governance through curricula require professional professionals who are safe in their role. It becomes even more important to know your profession, whether it is to master the so-called schools or the art of conducting good pedagogical management in relation to the rivers. I do not conceal that the Right now is concerned that it is going to fail in the first place with regard to the pace of implementation of continuing training. It's a concern I know the teachers' organizations share with us. When seven out of ten teachers think there is a need to fill new skills, it is not the teachers who are on it. This means that education authorities at state and local level must reach a long distance in order to meet this need within a reasonable period of time. Of course, it is a challenge to make practical arrangements for as many teachers as possible to pursue and further train, at the same time as the school, because the students are there, and they are even more. The question is whether today's organization is well adapted to this fact. I challenge the Minister of Knowledge to comment on whether she believes that continuing education, as it is now set up, has the necessary flexibility. Does the State Council share the right concern that the available study places are not being filled out? From the Right, we have closely followed developments in the number of applicants for the study offers received by Norwegian teachers, with the start of the coming autumn. And we're disappointed. Despite extra rounds with municipalities, it now appears to be a fact that a significant number of study places will be empty in the autumn of 2010. In the view of the Right, there is every reason to be interested in how this can happen when the desire for continuing education is so widespread. Whether the State and the municipalities succeed in continuing training at a reasonable pace is important in order to be able to have confidence in the teachers who have suggested a clear boost in this area. But it's just as much about being a professional employer and the school being an attractive job, and through it being able to keep and recruit skilled employees. The ongoing quality training programme, signed by the State, the KS and the teacher organisations, clearly underlines the link between well-qualified teachers and students’ learning and motivation. The aim of the strategy is also to increase the professional, educational and pedagogical competences of teachers in targeted and nationwide implementation of continuing education. The idea is also that continuing training provided in the system will contribute to ‘enhancing the status of the teaching profession and enhancing confidence in the quality of the school’. It is the opinion of the Right that the integration is of great importance in order to achieve the objective of the continuing education strategy, measured by the learning outcomes of the students and the increased status of the teachers. Despite the ongoing campaigns and follow-up via the education directors, the extent of the allocated study places for many counties is far below what could be expected. From the overview I'm with after the so-called "rest square" was closed last week, 14 states have lower than 70 pst. registration. But worse it is that five counties are under 50 pst., with Sogn and Fjordne decidated on the bottom by 2 pst. registration. Nord-Trøndelag, which is on top, has a utilisation rate of 85 pst. – also there is more to go on. In view of the progress made by the parties involved, this must be disappointing figures when we know how much we need to raise our skills. If the national effort to continue training is to succeed, it is in the opinion of the Right that it is of great importance that the Ministry ensure that this matter is kept under high pressure. We can't settle for participation at this level, and the question now is what you've learned from this year's admission to further education. I am of course aware that we are in the start-up phase of the continuing education strategy, but that is precisely why I am so concerned that we are getting started well. The credibility of the strategy may be at stake if we do not succeed better than the year’s number of applicants can predict. It is necessary to get to the bottom of the country-wide differences that are identified. Like the Minister of Knowledge, the Right will fight differences in School Norway, and when the teacher is most important, it is most worrying that some states will be lagging behind in the implementation of skills enhancement and further training. In view of the numbers of applicants we are now seeing, there must be grounds for early efforts to correct the situation. We need to learn from school experience, that it is not a good strategy to wait and see if the problems are not correcting themselves, but we need to identify where it has failed and take countermeasures as quickly as possible. Another important question when so many places of study are not filled out is how applicants divide by subject. In view of the challenges facing Norwegian school, especially in the field of real science, it is very important that we manage to maintain a high rate of implementation in these subjects. High school numbers show that about 25 pst. real-time teachers will retire from retirement in the next five years. If the school is not to suffer a major loss of competence when the most experienced teachers are retired, younger colleagues must be given the opportunity to improve their skills now. The Strategy Paper sets out: ‘A success factor for the strategy is good search for and little failure from continuing training. The parties shall monitor developments and assess the system’s arrangements if participation and implementation are not as desired.’;» Finally, I have three questions for the Minister of Knowledge: What will the Government do on the basis that a large number of continuing training places do not have applicants and the significant differences that have been identified? Low applicant figures are explained, inter alia: that the availability of education services is difficult because they are geographically far away. Requests for online solutions are made. What's the Council's comment on that? What will the State Council do to ensure that continuing training can help resolve the acute situation associated with the departure of a large number of real-time teachers in higher education over the next five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e540	Teachers with a high level of professional and pedagogical competence, as the representative Aspaker points out, are one of the key prerequisites for students’ learning. In general, competence development for teachers is under the responsibility of the training law § 10-8 of the school owner. The state can contribute to the development of school owners’ skills, such as: by compensating for expenditure arising from changes in legislation, and therefore was precisely done by the introduction of the Knowledge Lift. In connection with the introduction of the Knowledge promise, municipalities received 300 million. SEK in 2005 and 375 million. kr annually over the period 2006-2008 through the Quality Competence Strategy. The funds in that bet were to enable the schools to launch the knowledge promise. At the end of this comprehensive effort, schools should now have sufficient competence in the implementation of the Knowledge Lift itself. Let me say a little bit about the experience of Competence for Development. This strategy has been carefully evaluated and experience is the basis for further efforts to develop skills. Most teachers participated in one or more topics on the promise of knowledge, mostly as follow-up training. There was a sharp increase in continuing education for school leaders. The strategy led to the development of long-term skills development plans by many municipalities and the strengthening of regional cooperation between school owners and the local UH institutions. At the same time, the significant increase in funds only led to a small increase in the number of teachers involved in the development of skills. In fact, the level in 2008 was at the same level as in 2003. I think it's a crossroads of thought that the increase in government appropriations for skills development did not lead to any increase in activity. Only a small part of the funds went to further training, although part of the funds were earmarked for this. Further training of teachers was, according to the evaluation, at a lower level during the strategy period than it was in the previous years. In addition, there was a partial lack of further training. The reason the teachers stated was that the workload was too high, and they felt that there was too much going on for the students when they lacked qualified temporary workers. Such experience has been important to take into account the design of the new investment in continuing education and training, so that we can respond better to the needs. Since the majority of funds in the previous strategy period went to continuing training and new requirements for at least 60 credits have been introduced in the subject of teachers employed for teaching in English, Norwegian and mathematics at the youth level, we have now chosen that the main focus on skills development is continuing education, i.e. formal competence. Firstly, the previous strategy led to a low level of continuing training. Furthermore, continuing training generally has more impact on education and learners than on continuing training. Therefore, the Quality Competence Strategy is the most important of the efforts to develop skills. It is designed in cooperation with the KS, the teacher organisations and the University and Higher Education Council to meet the challenges that the sector itself sees as being facing. The parties behind the strategy agreed to allocate the costs to temporary workers for teachers. The state committed to contributing 40 pst., the KS went in to ensure that the municipalities would contribute 40 pst., and the teacher organisations that the teachers would cover 20 pst. through own efforts. Much of the money goes to mathematics, Norwegian and English at the youth level as a result of the regulatory change in these subjects. Norway has few reading specialists, especially at the nursery, and therefore it is one of the priority subjects. There are also priorities for some subjects where competence mapping shows that there are few teachers who have at least 60 credits in these subjects. In addition, some study places will be allocated according to other local needs. To sum up, I believe that the strategy meets the demand for high-quality continuing training by providing the resources of selected teacher training institutions to develop and offer high-quality free study places to school owners and that teachers have been given time to study. The provision of funds to cover temporary work costs also helps to ensure good training for the pupils while the teachers are studying. I would also like to point out that the strategy covers important subjects where there is a particular need for further training. I am therefore reasonably sure that subjects and subjects meet the needs of the school and students. Feedback from teachers involved in continuing training is also positive, and teacher training institutions have expressed the good and motivated nature of the students. Then it is very disappointing that no more school owners have used the scheme. Preliminary figures show that 1650 teachers have been enrolled so far, which is far below the target we have set. Of course, I think it is great that there are more than 1,600 teachers who receive further training from the autumn, as well as the 1000 who finish their further training in the spring. But the number should be much higher. I have registered that many municipalities later believe that the cost of temporary cover is too high. It is important to remember that continuing training of high quality and of up to one year’s duration costs more than short-term follow-up training. In addition, it is necessary to cover part of the temporary employment costs in order to reach those teachers who do not have the financial opportunity to take a year off or who do not have the working capacity to study in their spare time. I would therefore like to assess, in cooperation with the parties, how to adjust the investment in continuing training in order to increase the number of participants. There is also a need for specific efforts to strengthen teacher competence in other areas, where it is not as natural to invest in continuing training. This is why we are also spending resources on continuing training in particularly priority areas. Such areas are the assessment of learning in the context of new regulations on individual assessment, the basic skills of reading and accounting, counselling and continuing training in vocational and vocational training. Although newly educated teachers, as the representative Aspaker points out, make up only a small part of the total number of teachers, they will of course make up a larger and larger proportion over time. Therefore, the new teacher training is also important for the overall teacher competence. In particular, the sharing of teacher training – one for 1–7. steps and one for 5 to 10. Steps – lead to greater emphasis on professional immersion than before and more teachers with good competence in their subject. We have also intensified efforts to provide guidance to more graduates at the start of their careers. In sum, I believe that today's offer, within the limits that are possible, meets the needs of the school. With regard to the challenge of getting municipalities and county councils to report to more teachers for further education, this is something we must follow with very clear attention. In the near future, we will get an overview of what is really the status of search for the next school year. As a starting point – which is not going to be as good as we want – we need to discuss many of the challenges that the representative of Aspaker addresses, for example. whether it is possible to make this more decentralised while maintaining good quality, or whether there are other things about the device on which it should be changed. But it's important to be able to achieve a balance here to ensure that the quality we've now assured ourselves that these offers contain, do not deteriorate, while we want more people to participate. It is important for me to take this discussion with the parties behind this arrangement, in order to find out how we can reach more people and get to what is the intention behind the whole offer of further education and training. Many municipalities say that it is too expensive to participate in the programme. I believe that the school owner is primarily responsible for what is the development of the skills of his employees, and that we are coming up with would weigh if it is such that their thinking on empowerment is primarily triggered when it comes to government crowns. I believe it is reasonable that we have a split layer between them – between the municipalities and the state – and then we find out where the balance is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e576	I hear that the Council of State shares my concerns and the concerns of the Right that so many places of study will be available from the fall of the year. It is estimated that about half of the total population of the population is in the region of. 600 places are available, is not an answer to the challenges faced by the school. At the same time, I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important now that we make demands for quality in the study offerings given to Norwegian teachers, that a spice layer should be a spice layer, and that we are not served to relieve the school owners of their responsibility to follow up their employees. But it is also a national responsibility to ensure that Norwegian school maintains the necessary quality. We all want Norway to be briefed away from the mediocre or mid-performances of many Norwegian students in important subjects. Then we also have to make maximum efforts to make use of the provision for further training of teachers that is now being provided. The Council of State was concerned that she would now initiate a review based on the experience gained after the evaluation of competence for development, and the figures and developments we are now seeing, relating to the continuing training programme. It is a challenge here to reduce costs, but it is also a challenge to facilitate that teachers who have a family and who, for other reasons, may find it difficult to make full-time students far from home should also be able to get an offer. I am aware that several online study services have been proposed that have not become online study services. I fear that a long distance from the place of study can actually contribute to falling off the load and not participating in continuing training. I again ask the council if she will go carefully into the seams considering that. Then I want to challenge the Council of State – because I understand it so that teachers are brought up for this further training only every autumn – if it is possible with the 600 places that are not now filled, to imagine an admission for further training of teachers also in January, which is the second semester of a traditional academic year. I demand, as I said, the flexibility of the system. It probably has to be better to do this today, and I think that the key to bringing down some of the costs is actually also that not so many need to be full-time students.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e591	It is quite obvious that we need to have a review and establish the status of how this has worked until now, now that the applicants are starting to show up, and we can see that we are not going to use all of the places that are set aside. Then I will not reject any of the issues raised by the representative of Aspaker. It is quite obvious that we need to have good quality of the offers offered, and they also need to be managed according to where the needs are. At the same time, however, those who are the target of this continuing training are established family people living around municipalities who have their daily responsibilities not only at school and at work but also in their own family. Clearly, there are demanding situations. So we have to go through this carefully and look at how we can cover the offers and what kind of development we can have in terms of more web-based solutions. I fully agree with that. I am pleased that the representative Aspaker shares my opinion that the school owner, i.e. the municipalities, is responsible for lifting the competence of his employees. There must be a basis for discussing how to organise this, because it has a lot to do with the awareness of the kind of responsibility you have as an employer. So the representative named Aspaker's possibility of recording a recording in January, i.e. sharing the period. I believe that is also part of the things we now have to discuss. At all, we have to think through all the devices that this offer has been given, and be willing to take up the discussions on how to connect it, again. It is important that the parties participate in that dialogue, and I want to engage in dialogue with them as soon as we get an overview of how we will succeed better with this. The need for further training is there, the need to increase competence in the areas we have selected is there. The money is there, the places are there, and there's something about the connection we don't get. So I'm going to get to grips with it as soon as possible, so that we can get on the track quickly with adjustments to the arrangements to better meet the needs for further education we have around the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e602	First, I would like to thank the representative, Aspaker, for including this topic in the storeroom. It's always nice to discuss the teacher, the role of the teacher and how to add to better teachers, because teachers are the most important prerequisite for learning in schools. Professionally qualified teachers are more secure in dealing with the students, and the teacher's competence plays a significant role in teaching and teaching. This is why it is so important that teachers are offered a good system of continuing education and training and that this is provided on a regular basis. Studies have shown that teachers are a professional group which is little up-to-date on new research findings. We compare this working group with, for example: The nurses, they're the opposite. Here it is required that one always be up-to-date on the latest research, because it can save lives. We have a problem in making the teachers think the same way. New research needs to be discussed in the classroom and included in the schoolwork of each teacher. I think that continuing education can make the teacher more aware of this. At the time of the launch of the Knowledge Commitment, the development of initial training competence was a priority area. And the goal was to provide funding for continuing education in the period 2006–08, which, despite the change of government, was also followed up by the new red-green government in 2005. In St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08, Quality in School, a permanent system for the further training of teachers was announced. This government has undertaken to gradually build up a permanent system of continuing training. The system shall be fully operational in 2011. The intention of the right-hand side was not a permanent system of continuing education. Further training was to be offered in the transition from one reform to a new – the Knowledge promise – in 2005 to 2008. In the interpellant, it can be heard that the Right introduced a permanent system of continuing training and that the Government did not follow up. That's wrong. The government started a permanent system of continuing education and training, with a provision of 117 million in 2009. kr for further training. Some subjects have been prioritised: Norwegian, Sami, math and English at the youth level and reading at the nursery. Then trades are also included according to local and national needs. In the period 2009–2012, when you are in a transitional phase, it is also set aside money for further training. It's worth 70 million. NOK to this. This is a quality system that meets documented training needs for teachers, including: reading and computational training and ICT competence in the use of digital learning materials. Furthermore, it's set at 72 million. SEK for continuing training of professionals and vocational training, and funds have also been provided to finance the training of new principals and principals who do not already have such training. Overall, in 2009, the State contributed about 400 million. kr for skills development, and continuing training is also a high priority in the current year – in 2010. We need to keep a great deal of pressure on the skills development of teachers and school leaders. In total, it is proposed to grant over 386 million. for the development of competence in this year. It is alarming, as the interpellant says, that the municipalities do not follow the intention of the state, that less money than what is being earmarked, goes to continuing training, and that there are many spaces that are empty. This must be followed closely. We want the continuing training system to work as well as possible. In an interview with teachers, it is also worth mentioning the high number of applicants for education for the 2010–2011 school year. We got these numbers last week. It's the second year in a row we have a record search for the teacher's study. There are probably three reasons for this. One is the campaign launched by the Ministry of Education: Do you have it in you? It has been successful for two consecutive years. The second is that, from the autumn, a new teacher training specialising in stages is introduced. Applicants for the year have chosen to specialise in steps 1 to 7 or 5 to 10. The third is that there is a campaign, GNIST, which is a five-year collaboration aimed at raising the status of teachers and getting more qualified applicants for teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e621	During the last article, I wanted a little bit of a moment that I was a math teacher, because there were a lot of numbers. I want to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss this, for every time we focus on the teachers being the most important thing to balance social differences by creating peace and order in the classroom so that the boys don't get so much hung up on. But also to bring the 1's to their full potential, we know that the teachers have an incredible amount to say. That's how we all know that both the subjects and the pedagogics are evolving. We do a lot of research in Norway, a lot of research is being done internationally, and we know that both science and pedagogics are evolving all the time. It is very important to continue training for Norwegian teachers. To this extent, I would also like to say, as one of the previous speakers did, that the initiative which has now come from the department and which is now well under way, namely the training of school leaders, is an important measure. But it is also, as has been said, that both the inter-pellant and the Council of State were involved in, the municipalities that are responsible. We politicians must also underline this every time we talk about it in this Chamber, but also when we talk to our party colleagues around the Norwegian country. It is the municipalities that are responsible, also for the competence of the employees who are going to train our children. Some municipalities have taken that responsibility. I myself was so lucky here some time before Christmas to visit the municipality of Karmøy in Rogaland. They follow a different scheme from that laid down by the State Council and the Department, and they are trained teachers for a quarter of the municipality that would have to pay if they had followed the direction of the department. It's a sign that when the municipalities take responsibility, it's not always as easy to get through to the department. I hope that the department will be more flexible in the choice of solutions. The teachers in Karmøy contribute something more than the Government and the State Council add. Nevertheless, the Education Association of Karmøy is very pleased with the scheme and wishes it to continue and that it can also receive support from the Ministry. So it's a spice layer – many have said so – but that spice layer must not involve the students. It is important, therefore, that both the department and the school owners of the municipalities ensure that the teaching continues through good coverage. Then I've been through a lot of what I agree with the previous speakers about to some extent. So it seems that many of the previous speakers are very concerned about managing both the municipalities and the colleges in terms of recording in January and online solutions, etc. I don't think that's the answer. I think the colleges know that these are very attractive students to join their organization. And I trust that if we make sure that the best solutions are supported, that all good solutions are supported, both from the municipalities and from the state budget, I am sure that we will have a diversity in Norwegian colleges offering this continuing education service. Sitting here at the Stortinget or in the Ministry and deciding how the colleges should do this, I will not help to encourage. On the other hand, I believe in academic freedom, which some other parties also sometimes have. So the interpellant took up something very important, and that was the need for real-time teachers. I think we just have to start to realize here and now that this need facing the knowledge nation of Norway, we are unable to meet with the professionals of teachers alone. That's why I think it's important that we already start discussing how we can get realists in other occupational groups into school. Then we also have to make it easier for realists, civil engineers, mathematicians, physicists and biologists in other professional groups to become teachers. Then we have to start by making it easier for them to take pedagogics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e636	There are two things in this debate that I feel that there is a cross-political consensus about, and that characterise school policy. One is that the Knowledge Promise is an important and good initiative to be followed up and implemented. The other thing we also agree on, albeit with a slightly different angle and action, is that the teacher is the most important resource in the dissemination of knowledge to children and young people. This has led to debate on the recruitment of teachers, admission requirements and not least the content of the training of new teachers. It has been good, it has resulted in campaigns for recruitment and it has changed teacher training. Now we have a new model in place, and the professional immersion in it is a good follow-up to the Knowledge Lift. This will help to ensure the quality and knowledge of the school in the future. So the challenge is how we are going to lift the great national college of teachers now! As has been said, the total loss of teachers is allocated to the country. 3 pst. new-educated teachers each year. So it will take almost 40 years for the teacher’s staff to be renewed in the new teacher’s training. So when we are going to strengthen the school and follow up the promise of knowledge, it is absolutely essential that action be directed at the teachers who are in school. The government has put aside funds and started offering. The right also sees the need for this initiative and has also doubled the sum in its alternative budget. However, the major challenge is that the adaptation of users is obviously not good enough. It's a special situation, because where you usually see people out there yelling at the state, we've turned this around – and now it's the state calling for participation. Here it's money, here it's consensus, but you don't get participation. Then you have to get hold of it. Through dialogue with both KS, in fact, municipalities, county councils and not least schools, we have received many feedback that the adaptation to users is not good enough. There are too few alternative ways of implementing the education. Schools do not have the finances to contribute, and municipalities have no more money to contribute. I was a little over a week ago on a school visit to Farsund and Lwagal, and then I got this confirmed again when I took it up with the schools I visited. Schools with great commitment to teachers as a resource did not have financial scope to send teachers on education as they would. They lost in the fight for funds, even at school, for equipment, for the rehabilitation of construction, new buildings, etc. Moreover, today’s offers and funding are a major challenge for most teachers in the College of Teachers, both in relation to their colleagues, who will often receive increased pressure, and in relation to an established family situation, on which the Council of State was involved. Today's arrangement is too many not a real offer. Own share and 100 pst. leave is a challenge, especially both at the same time. When we see that participation is very small and has not hit the target audience, I hope the Council of State will move around and look at immediate alternatives, because it's urgent. The council has confirmed that she will look at it, and I hope it happens quickly. The biggest challenge seems to be the need to take 100 pst. leave. Can e.g. is the offer distributed over several years? Both in terms of time use and cost, offers are perceived to be too low. Travel costs and long periods of time prevent many from making this choice. Is it considered to extend the provision of distance learning, or could it be an alternative to move teaching out to groups of teachers? Finally, I would like to point out that some of the states that have fewer applicants have had good regional arrangements. I assume that when she now engages in dialogue with the various government councils, she also engages in dialogue with them to see if funds can be channelled into established, good, continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e654	Well, what are we doing here? We have an offer that looks good in many ways, but as several previous speakers have been in, it's probably a lot to pick up on offering it in a more flexible way. And then we're a little bit inside of the big, important lifelong learning debate. The problem is that the participation is too small, which has been discussed by many. In a sense, this may be another example of a debate that we have a lot of in this Chamber: Is it the municipal and county economy that is too bad? Or are there some so-called error priorities that go into municipalities and county municipalities – which are here, and should be, school owners – that are the problem? Then we get into a ringing discussion quickly. More people have reflected well on it so far. One of the clear messages I got from the county council, from the Uppland community, when I joined state politics after six years, was that this is important, and it's especially important in District Norway. Once again, District Norway often has to take teachers who are a little bit less educated than our urban areas have to. In that case, it is particularly important that we be able to provide a good provision of continuing education very quickly, both for the individual teacher and not least for the school owner. One of the clear greetings I received was linked to the word'student', i.e. if one could give the teachers who want to continue their training – many of them, fortunately – a scholarship as monks, the teacher could still choose to take this on a leisure basis, and thus stand in full employment. But the teacher could also go down in a different way from today's job percentage the time he was a student. Grants are not free. There's someone who has to pay for it. I can see that. But before I come to it: it is clear that for an SV who especially appreciates, or believes it is important, that a person should have as principle that education and continuing education should, as far as possible, if not free, be cheap, this is a beautiful instrument. But it costs money. That's the way it is, I also think several speakers have been well aware that it's not automatically the state that's going to pay. There are some school owners here who basically, and that said the Minister of Knowledge clearly also in his posts, are the ones who should take responsibility. It also has to include the economic. In these tariff settlement times, I get back associations just to it. It is often said by both parties, both employers and employees, that such negotiations should be something far more than pay and something far more than retirement; it should have something to do with competence, that both employers and employees in a modern working life in a knowledge-based nation should contribute the element of competence to that context. So scholarships can be a key chord as well as some other key chords in this debate, but there must be some fresh money. I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e667	There will be a constant need for continuing training of teachers. The development of skills and learning will always be dynamic and contribute to new needs. That is why we need a permanent system of continuing training. The good teacher is Alpha and Omega. The good teacher is the one who can train him, well. But, unfortunately, professional knowledge is not enough. Sense of one as a teacher is professionally strong in mathematics, one is not necessarily a good math teacher. A good teacher must also have good educational skills. She must be able to have a set of learning principles, know how young people learn and master different learning methods, so that teaching can be adapted to each student in the classroom. We're cutting too low on international tests. We spend a lot of money, but we get too little left in the form of students' learning outcomes. In response to the lack of results of tests, we have introduced several hours in strategic subjects such as: mathematics and linguistics. We have expanded the school day, introduced lessons and have a strategy for continuing vocational education. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether this is the right medicine to the challenge. Well, as important as giving students more time to learning measured in hours is the quality of the education that's going to fill the hour. How are the minutes available used? The time-use range has pointed to a number of points that remove the teacher’s attention from the planning and follow-up of education. Teaching time is spent playing by spending too much time getting started in teaching and too much time keeping order and quiet in the classroom. Summer up, this represents many hours of education throughout the school year. More efficient use of the time available gives us a potential for better education without spending more hours. If one is to succeed in a more effective education, the school owner, and we need to create a common attitude culture for learning at each school. What are the principles of learning that each teacher or individual school follows? How much time do we spend exercising basic skills? To what extent does one follow up with repetition and improvement of skills, so that they are automated? I think we have a lot to learn from developing skills on learning and common culture for school learning. If a young person wants to learn to bike, he has to practice a lot. If we're going to transfer this to school, that means that a lot of time has to be spent on basic skills and automation. If you're a good reader, it's easier to take up information in a text in the social or natural sciences without using all the forces on the technical piece that it's reading a text. I do not mean by this post to say that continuing education in real science or language is not important. On the contrary, I think it is good that the interpellant has raised the question. But there is a need for awareness and thoughtful prioritisation when the school is planning to use time that takes resources away from the education itself. Development of competence is a management responsibility and must be part of a plan for both individual and school development. If continuing education is to have the desired effect, it must not be a matter of chance, but it must be done systematically through a strategy for building school-owners and school-leaders. The government has taken a number of measures to give teachers and schools a lift of skills. The project 'Competence for Development' was completed last year, and now we are working on the Quality Competence strategy, as the Council of State well explained in its article. Governments are just pointing to the need for local follow-up. I believe that, in the political debate, we have had too little time to discuss the teaching skills of teachers as a prerequisite for good learning. The fact that one has placed less emphasis on the field of education from the 1990s to the present day is an expression of this. That the new teacher training starting in the autumn corrects this is good. It is time that the primary feature of the teaching profession, having knowledge of learning and learning principles, also has its place when discussing matters of competence. But pedagogics and didactics alone are not enough. Professional updates and developments are also necessary. I am sure that today's management in the Ministry of Knowledge will follow up the continuing training needs in the best possible way. I hope we succeed with the parties in recruiting more people for further training, because that is what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e690	One of the main goals of the Christian People's Party for the school is that we should put each student in the center, and that we should secure all students' challenges based on each individual's characteristics and potential. If you are to succeed, you need a truly capable and committed teacher, and there is a need for an additional pressure for primary and secondary teachers in the form of systematic continuing education. This, as well as ensuring that there are enough teachers, should be given the highest priority in the future. Many competent teachers are far more important than giving priority to an extended school day, on which the government has chosen to invest the large amount of money. I record that the Center Party is also now asking if this has been the right medicine. We welcome all critical glances at what has been done. I understand why the main focus has now been on continuing training and not so much on continuing training. At the same time, it is often that it may not be the professional knowledge that makes the difference between the brilliant teacher and the good teacher. That's often the scientific knowledge. The way to teach can be more important than professional depth. A study lab report has previously shown that the school has challenges related to uniform educational arrangements and inability to adapt education to students. At the same time, we know that there is a constant desire to adapt training to each individual student. It is also essential, with expectations of individual organisation and of new, up-to-date knowledge of teaching, to be able to provide further training for the enhancement of competence for all teachers. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has previously called for a pilot project with three to six months of renewal and empowerment for teachers, focusing on changes in school, new pedagogics and more disciplines. In the long term, we believe that it is necessary to develop a model where teachers receive periodic training, perhaps every 10 years, for a period of between three and six months. Students in Norwegian school are entitled to get engaged, up-to-date and knowledge-rich teachers. That's why we need to get teachers the best starting point for achieving a school that's adapted to the individual student. There has been evidence of the existing continuing education system, both from the Council of State and the inter-pellant, and that we have too few applicants and too many places. When the representative Ljunggren says that it was the government parties that made this a permanent arrangement, I just want to remind you that all the opposition parties had a proposal to make this a permanent arrangement long before the government came along with this. But what I've gone into and I've been thinking about is that not all municipalities are able to use it. What is said is that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to develop the skills of their teachers, and that means that they look very closely at the needs of the municipality. Then the funds have been added to the educational institutions, which then come up with an offer to attend and cover some of the challenges we have on the professional, and the council pointed out which subjects it should be. But I think that some municipalities, especially the municipalities that have had educational centres that have worked very well in creating continuing training for their teachers, experience that this new scheme has become something that has been a little sideways and that has not responded to the need that they themselves have. I think that may be some of the reasons why you have not received the amount of application that you would like to receive in the places that are actually present. So I think there's got to be a new round to see how, for example. the pedagogical centres may be integrated into the system of continuing training to which it is now assigned. Finally, I want to say that for the Christian People's Party, the key to the good school has been the teacher. We've talked about that in all the time we've been sitting in both the position and the opposition, to get the good results in school. Giving this profession, the most important profession in order to get to a good school, the ability to perform the role it has, has to be seen as the main field of activity in the time we have to work together to create a good school, where all students are seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e704	I'll start by thanking the Right for the interpellation. This is the most important topic we can discuss in school policy, and it's great that we get an interpellant debate on it. The left has given priority to continuing training in every alternative budget we have put forward, and we have sometimes done so by prioritizing it both in front of bananas and hours without teachers. In April 2006 we presented proposals for a separate year of competence, and in January 2008 we presented proposals for teacher engagement. So we think this might be the most important school thing. Why is that? Well, because this is about the status and respect of the teacher. It's about results that we're going to have at the other end, and it's about developing the learning environment. But then I also think that it's basically about teachers' rights and the duty of teachers to develop professionally, and then maybe we're in the vicinity of the nucleus here. We believe that we should have been much more stringent about the professional requirements of teachers in order to be able to teach in the field, and we really need a national stepping-up plan to achieve those objectives. But the core here is about reversing the attitude to continuing education. I've been around a lot of schools in my life, and what's going on is that many teachers have experienced very bad training. Many of them have had a terrible quality. They feel that they're wasting time saying, and then you don't see them in the candidate bench another time. So getting the quality of continuing education is actually very important to motivate teachers to use the time to say it. So I think that all schools, all the principals, like good managers, should sit down and make a good plan for each teacher, because when you needed professional supplementation, when you needed continuing education, you would sit down and make a skill plan for each teacher, where you found out when it was important to get such an incentive. The percentage of distribution may be regulated, but I think this is about a school attitude about what continuing education is. We've seen a lot of bad offers over time, and we now have a system where people have a bad conscience to leave their students because they don't get good enough alternatives. It's also about an attitude you face in the system, where it's almost considered as a problem that you want professional replenishment, where it's almost like when you're a little tired, you have to have the professional replenishment. I believe that all teachers should have a plan for when it's time to get their subjects up to date, and that plan should each school make for them. We've worked a lot on this in Oslo. It's a while until we get a liberal school minister, but in Oslo we've managed to reverse attitudes and make our own system, according to the left's model of the teacher's vow, as we presented here, which has now given us 7 000 extra study credits in the last two years, and which also leads to Oslo being among the three states that are at the top of the scale when it comes to filling up the places that are. That, I think, is about a change of mind. Then is my good tip to the Council of State, who has told me that she is going to Sweden on May 17th: there they are lucky enough to have a liberal as a school minister. There they are so lucky to have a man who has done the teacher's vow, from which we have actually stolen the word, namely Jan Björklund. Jan Björklund, who made a plan already in 2007 that we in the Left were looking at in 2008, and which led to our proposal on the teacher's promise, has looked at how to build up the system, so that all teachers get the professional development they need. So I would like to encourage the Council of State to talk about continuing education with a good liberal school minister, who has many good ideas on how to continue this. Basically, I think this is about attitude. It's very wrong in a school to have the attitude that teachers don't need education. Actually, it should be where there was the most craving for additional continuing training in the whole country. Teachers would have wanted to learn more all the time. But I think the quality, I think the attitudes, I think that too little money in the system has turned their heads in the wrong direction. Then we might need a big national campaign to turn our heads in the right direction, and I hope that the Council of State will be inspired by Jan Björklund and like to steal his words on the teacher's vow, so that we can get a national campaign with an attitude that we need more knowledge of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e723	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I have noticed the Council of State's assurance that she will now take urgent action against the other strategic parties, so that we can evaluate the status and, if necessary, make changes so that more people can participate. I also note that there is a broad consensus that the continuing training strategy is necessary and that we cannot afford to fail. The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, believes that it may be contrary to academic freedom to seek concrete adaptations to study provision in terms of greater decentralisation, admissions several times a year and online study arrangements. The right considers it important that the UH sector, which is to provide further training, also listens to users, to teachers and to municipalities, which are to take an essential part of the bill. If the changes such as: have been discussed here today, may help us to get the participation, it is important both for the school and for the UH sector, which is to provide an offer adapted to those who are to benefit from it. There is a lot of talk in society today about the need for lifelong learning in the workplace, and in this way the school can be no exception. Teachers, as knowledge workers, should go ahead and show the way. In fact, the right-wing opinion is that Norwegian teachers should be entitled to and also obliged to continue training in order for new students to meet teachers who are up-to-date. It is not acceptable that there are teachers who believe that they do not need continuing training, even in areas where the country and the municipality agree that there is a need to fill their skills. I can mention consultancy and ICT. The list could probably have been done longer, but it can't be like that, so we don't create the best school. The right considers that it is positive for teachers as a working group to now facilitate a greater degree of predictability through systematic training. We think it will inspire more teachers to more active career planning. While the strategy for quality competence gives rise to hopes for the country's teachers, the implementation rate is determined by the annual budgets. The right-wing proposal for the current year was to double the effort for continuing education because we are impatient and see that the need is so much greater than what we get today. But we recognize that it is a challenge to facilitate in such a way that more teachers can participate at the same time without the school being over-populated by unskilled people to replace them in education. It is not quality-promoting, rather on the contrary. So we have to do it in such a way that we can both have qualified teachers in the classroom and more qualified teachers who come back from continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e738	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this matter. It's important. I also want to thank you for the time, because in these days we get an overview of what the situation looks like. That means that we've got this interpellation before we start looking at what are the issues around how to adjust this, so that we're better able to get more people to continue training. That means that I take with me the ideas and suggestions that have come here, when we are now discussing this, and I also take with me that this is a matter of broad consensus in the Storting and strong common interest in succeeding. It's really nice that you can gather about this. It's a little bit different how we're going to pick the instruments. Of course, it is demanding for adults, established people to participate in continuing education schemes that may require that you stay away for the whole week, or that there is a long way to go. But my impression, when I look at the municipalities and the difference between the counties, is that there are quite a number of teachers who have expressed their interest in continuing education but have not received it. Then it might be the next term – the municipalities and the municipal owners, or disagreement about what kind of arrangements to apply for – which is the next type of challenge. So anyway, the flexibility in how this is done can lead to better use of resources. Then I've realized that on 17 May I'm going to bring out the coat, a fan of flags – be in Stockholm and also talk about continuing training with the Swedish Minister of Knowledge. That's absolutely right. I'm going there, and I'm going to meet him. We certainly also have things to learn from other countries about how we develop this, and can take ideas about it with us. I also think that the attitude that when you're working in a learning organization, you have to be yourself one who wants to get new and new knowledge is a very important, basic culture. It is not acceptable that someone believes that one has been trained once and for all – 30 years ago. It's obvious that you haven't been taught once and for all, 30 years ago. Many may then have filled the road – without being formalised as continuing education. But in any case, I'm absolutely sure that many people would have benefited from getting more systematic knowledge. I thank you for the debate and take with me the ideas that have come, and come back to Stortinget with proposals on how to adjust this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e751	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e767	The Norwegian science centre initiative is something as special as an outstanding success. Since the beginning of 2003, we now have eight regional science centres, covering all parts of the country with the exception of South Africa. Let me add that just the last thing wants the Right – as opposed to the Government, obviously – to do something about it. The centres have come up on the basis of sound local initiatives and plans and can show impressive results. Only in the last two years has the number of visits increased by 24 and 13 pst respectively, and last year seven White Centres were visited by almost 600,000 people. It's a triple in six years. The science centres now include kindergarten children, school students, students, parents and grandparents — perhaps older parents too — who all have the joy of experiencing wonder and excitement, getting new knowledge about technology and science — and having fun at the top of it all. The knowledge centres are simply a cheeky egg in real science communication, which is three things at a time. I think the audience success of the science centres has a lot to do with their appearance as exciting and just public friendly, and being able to convey knowledge in a fanciful way. Right here, the more traditional museum sector has a lot to learn – even though a lot has happened on the dissemination front here too in recent years. It is likely that the science centres have been an inspiration to redirect the dissemination in many museums. Both science centres and museums have a common challenge in making often complex knowledge into easily accessible understanding, adapted to young and old alike. But the significance of science centres goes beyond this. It has been read out and adopted – and last but not least the Stortinget has stood for – that we need to strengthen the interest in real science among young people, because it has been declining over several years, and because Norway will need many more engineers and others with real science education in the future. The government has launched its own strategy, «Realfach for the Future», anchored in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, which was dealt with here in Stortinget just a month ago. In this strategy, funny enough, the White Centres are dedicated to little space – just a page on every side of 42 pages. However, what it says is important – that of all students who started in real-life education in 2008, a total of 20 pst. knowledge centres as a source of motivation and inspiration for choosing a real subject. Yes, according to the students, the science centers were more important than both counselors and advertising campaigns combined. As the department itself writes: ‘This shows that good results have been achieved for relatively modest means in the White Centre action.’ Then we're concerned with perhaps the most important thing to discuss about the science centres – and the starting point for my interpellation – namely the economy and funding. When the ministry, probably with the blessing of the Council of State, even uses the term ‘declared means’, I agree with that. In 2009, the then seven regional science centres had revenues of about EUR 15 billion. One hundred million. kr. Of this came 20 pst. from the national science centre programme. The audience contributed 33 pst., private sponsors with 9 pst. and municipalities and county municipalities with the rest – the whole of 37 pst. In relation to the strategy adopted, the relationship between state and municipal funding should be exactly the opposite. In contrast to what many believe, it is the state that is a junior in this fissure layer, and the only actor that does not contribute as provided for in the adopted strategy. In the context of the 22 million allocation for the year. The board of directors of the White Centre Programme, which is subject to the Research Council, then also states that ‘the year’s allocations are not sufficient in relation to the activities and plans of the scientific centres’. The Management Board also writes in its 2009 annual report: ‘For the past five years, it has invested around 500 million. kr. in new knowledge centres, exhibitions and other content. About half of this investment comes from business and other private contributors. Much seems to have been achieved with a relatively modest State operating grant. But at the heart of the matter is that the private investment is made in confidence that the operation is covered by the public. An insufficient State operating grant will in the long term undermine the good cooperation between public and private funding that the science centres have been able to build up. The Strategy Paper points out that there is a significant risk that the good development of the science industry in Norway will turn in a negative direction if the state operating appropriations are not increased to the level recommended by the Strategy.’ Then I'd like to add: that almost means a double of today's grants. The Board of Directors then writes: ‘After several years of operation there is also a growing need for maintenance, updating and new development. For institutions under great pressure, both economically and professionally, there is a danger that management's focus will shift from quality to quantity, with the number of visits prior to the development of qualitative audience offers. It is therefore important that the operating grant to the knowledge centres allows for continuous qualitative development work.’;» So far the board of the White Centre program. An international expert group that evaluated the Norwegian testimonial last year also concluded that State subsidies should be doubled. I believe that these signals come from a competent team and must be taken with the greatest seriousness by all those who are interested in the science centres, not least here in Stortinget. The main question, however, is what the Minister of Knowledge thinks about the situation, and whether she takes these feedback seriously. I know that in 2010 the Ministry will carry out an assessment of the governance and funding models of the knowledge centres. It will therefore be very interesting to hear the Council's assessments here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e806	I got a little bit of a feeling that the representative of Warloe had a expectation that this was a budget debate, and that various questions about the economy of the science centres were to be resolved here today. Let me just say right away that it is both the committee, the representative of Warloe and I realise that this is not the time for the budget to be discussed, and then we have to take with us the things that come from the debate to the further battles on the crowns. I'll come back to it a little bit at the end. I agree with the interpellant that the White Centres are a great success. They make an important contribution to making school education more varied and practical, and not only that, there is also a place for parents, grandparents and children in all ages looking for leisure — places that are exciting, fun and developing, and that also contribute to the subject. All those who have lived reasonably near the Norwegian Technical Museum have, for example: could use it as an incredible source of interest and inspiration. The regional science centres are part of the Government’s national real science strategy – which was also the subject of the interpellant – Realfach for the future, 2010–2014, in order to generate interest in mathematics, science and technology and to increase recruitment to education in these areas. I am concerned that schools should be able to use the learning arena of regional science centres to strengthen the practical dimension of the real subjects and help students to understand the benefits of the real subjects in society and in the workplace. The science centres explore phenomena related to physics, chemistry, mathematics, nature, environment, health and technology through their own activities. Here it's learned by experimenting with models. I'm also often impressed that you can keep up with the development of what's there, both in terms of knowledge, examples and activities, in such a way that it's up-to-date and interesting also for people who are frequent visitors. Regional centres of excellence have been shown to function well as an alternative learning venue for students and students with increasing numbers of visitors. By allowing children and young people to visit the centres on weekends together with their parents, they also act as a common area of experience to create a common understanding of the benefits of real science. Through cooperation projects with regional colleges and universities, regional science centres are also a resource for teacher training. Now we also know, on the basis of evidence from the Vilje-con selection study, that the science centres are perceived as an important source of motivation and inspiration for choosing real-time studies. There are eight regional science centres: Trondheim Vitensenter, Bergen Vitensenter, Norsk Technische Museum in Oslo, Jærmuseet in Rogaland, Nordnorsk Vitensenter in Tromsø, Vitensenter Inlandet in Gjøvik, Vitenlaben in Grenland and Science Center Østfold. The White Centre programme, which coordinates the eight centres, has helped to build a nationwide regional network in a relatively short period of time, and the figures for regional science centres have more than doubled between 2003 and 2009, from 225 000 to 600 000 visitors. Several of the centres have not completed their own construction for the establishment, but they are planned to all have completed their construction during 2011. The assessment of annual operating grants is seen in this context and therefore the allocation to each centre varies in size, but is on average 20 pst, within which the interpellant was involved. In order to maintain the quality of existing centres, the Ministry of Knowledge has on several occasions, including: in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, expressed the fact that no State aid is being opened up to more knowledge centres than those already covered by the scheme. It is important that these science centres keep quality and interest, but it is also important that a person be able to find the balance between what kind of resources one draws to the science centres, which are good experiences and inspiration — probably also a great inspiration for the teachers who have their classes with them. I'm sure they'll be refilled, too. But they have to be able to do that balancing process so that we have good real-time teachers spread around in schools, because that's where the daily work on real-time subjects has to be done anyway. The regional knowledge centres are not part of central government. They are foundations with their own governments, where municipalities/communities and private business contribute to the financing. However, the largest share of funding is own resources of centres and the State grant represents a small proportion of the total funding. The financial support provided by the State to the science centres is a grant grant and will not cover all the operating costs. The Government will continue the White Centre programme by providing operational support to regional science centres, and the Ministry of Knowledge is working on a review of the scheme. I think it is very positive that the scientific centres are planning to increase the activity offer as long as the scope can be realised within what we have from an annual financial framework. Whether they can be increased becomes a matter of budgetary priorities. I am aware that the expert group report concludes that State grants for the operation of the knowledge centres should be increased. It's a question that I'll come back to in connection with the state budget. Let me link a couple of arguments to the funding of the science centres. We've mentioned the science centers positively in many ways. It's been in the interpellant. But it's not like the state and the government have said that we're going to cover one third of the operating costs. It is a clear wish of those who run the science centres, but it is therefore a question to which we come back in the context of the budgetary procedure. What you'll notice in all the budget procedures is that there are a lot of very good purposes in the fight for all the crowns. It's no wonder that those responsible for evaluating the science centres are deeply concerned about the kind of positive ringing effects they have, and strongly argues that they are going to win the battle for a few more budget crowns than they have so far. It's fine and it's great, and that's how it should be. The balance of how we land this is a budgetary matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e846	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that this is not a budget debate, but what I may have missed in the Council of State's posts was nevertheless some expression of ambitions on the part of the Council of State and the Government for the further development of this sector, because there is a bit strange half-hearted about the Government's investment in the White Centres. When, in my post, I called the Norwegian Science Centre bet ‘an outstanding success’, that’s right. But it's not primarily the government that has reason to hit the chest. It is primarily the strong local mobilization around each centre, both private and public, that is the main reason why it has gone so well. I have to admit myself that I know the knowledge centre VilVite in Bergen very best. This is today Norway’s largest pure witness centre. The establishment of VilVite happened because the then Hydro gave 100 million. kr for the purpose when the company celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2005. Bergen Municipality, Hordaland County Municipality, Bergen City Council and a number of private enterprises have followed up with support and grants. For example, Bergen's grant to VilVite in 2009 was more than twice that of the state. If the science centres had been exclusively local entertainment services, this debate would have been superfluous today. But science centres are, of course, anchored in a national strategy and are an important instrument for addressing one of the main challenges of national competence, namely the need for more real-life vocational skills in the years ahead. Earlier this year, the government’s real-time strategy was presented, and according to the media review, this year there is a historical investment in real science, with about a quarter of the total. 200 million. kr only this year. It might have been natural to give a boost to the science centers as well as part of this, but it doesn't happen. The budgeted funds in the State budget are about Twenty-two million. kr, a moderate increase from last year. But it's also going to be an extra witness center from this year on. Developments over the last few years have been relatively flat, so the focus on the science centres can at least not be called historical, nor this year. So I'm calling for the Government's ambitions for the science-centre effort beyond what's in the Education Line and beyond what the Government said, that's that you want to continue the bet on the science-centres. Does the government have no ambitions beyond this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e859	I guess that's not really the ambition of the representative Warloe calling for. That's the budget, and what it's going to look like next year and the year after, and what kind of commitments you're going to give in relation to government grants. Stortinget knows that I can't give. The budget has not even been completed and it has not even been negotiated. But I've got some good arguments from the representative of Warloe here now, when the 2011 crown battle is to be landed, and it's getting tougher than the battle for the crowns has been for a while when it comes to the state budget, because everyone knows that we're going to spend less oil money next year than we've done before. We have fought the effects of the financial crisis and have succeeded. But we have to succeed well in the future too, and that means that we have to take a closer look at the use of money. But I thank you for the good and convincing arguments that I will make to my own when the debate on this comes. Then I am so pleased that the representative of Warloe does not believe that this is a responsibility that the state should take alone in any case. We're talking about a spice layer here, and I think it's actually quite positive that some companies see that they have a self-interest in contributing to this kind of center, which can be added to what we can offer in the experience, education and real-life strategy. Because it is obvious that enterprises that depend on good engineering and people with a good real-life background, who can contribute to value creation in their fields, also have a great interest in the fact that there is a generally stronger interest among growing children and young people in choosing precisely those directions. So splice layers in this area are going to be -- it's very good with the private companies that have contributed to this. It is quite natural that the municipalities that use this as part of their own real-time initiative and education offer, also spit in the cash register. Then we'll get back to when the budgets are dealt with, how we're going to balance the split layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e866	There are many advantages to being an adult. But when you visit a science center, you want to be a child again, because these science centres make childhood more exciting. They make technical and theoretical subjects far more interesting. The good news is that it's funny for adults who have a little bit of a baby in them, and who want to play a little bit, to visit these places. I also think that is the law for adults other than those who are parents, grandparents and grandparents, mentioned earlier. Knowledge centres should be open to all and an alternative learning area for both children and adults, and be a meeting place between the education sector and the business community, which we absolutely need. Not least, it turned out well when we dealt with the Education Line, that such arenas are important to care for. So it's good to cooperate with the university and higher education sectors, which can also meet the school in such a place. A resource for teacher training is also mentioned. The White Centres have many roles. Technology and knowledge are made here closely and more practically related. They're important for two reasons. The main reason for their creation was to ensure real-life recruitment by providing such an early interest, which is essential if someone is to have an interest in taking real-life education, and that we need more people to take this education. Another important point is to understand that technology is driving history. How we are as a society, is largely shaped by technology, in a much stronger way than many apparently believe. Such centres may be involved in making this right. For example, many people answer when they are asked by journalists about what is the most important invention, that it is the wheel. She may be. But if more people had been at a science center, I think you might have got more imagination about what was the most important invention. Anyway, the point is that we have to understand the world around us, and that helps the science centers. I want to take up the same point that Kristin Halvorsen just made, that it's going to be an addition to school. The most important thing is to have good real-life teachers at school, because it cannot replace school. Until then, the visits children and young people may have here, too sporadic. There must be an extra offer that complements what is in ordinary school. In addition, it is important that we ensure quality and that there is a good level of supply for all age groups. Because it can be chaotic at some science centres, where there's a lot of kids around, and then there's someone else in every other age who wants to learn something. Being able to coordinate all these age groups at once is not always as easy. It takes quality. The White Centres have come to stay. They will be in the budget in the future – certainly even after the evaluation. They might evolve in a different direction than we can now predict, because they're quite young. Then they're going to give a better offer for many groups, I'm sure of that. But it is not possible to help the science centres financially in this room today. It is quite right, as the Minister of Knowledge said, that today the budget is not on the agenda of the Stortinget. Today we can make good arguments as to why this is good, and then we have to take it in turn and come back when we're going to prioritize the money, along with a lot of other good ways to spend money on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e877	I am so lucky that I live in Norway’s technological capital – Trondheim. Of course, it should be unnecessary to stress it, but I did it for safety. There's a witness center. I've had my daughter with me in three years there. I'm not sure if she understands the chaos theory and how the wingbeat of the butterfly can create a storm. But I'm absolutely sure she thought the chaos machine at the White Centre was amazingly exciting. I'm not sure if she understands how the tallow principle makes you need less power to lift an object, but I'm absolutely sure she thought it was fantastic to be stronger than Dad. At the science center they also had a difficult department about electricity – about ohm and volt and watt – and there I have to admit that the father also fell off to some extent. But she saw that it was possible to generate enough electricity from a bike to get live on a TV. Then she became enthusiastic. When she herself got to build a bridge, which she got to go on afterwards, she also thought it was amazingly exciting. Then we get to the point: the White Centres are suitable – and very well suited – for creating enthusiasm and commitment to the real science. I think the Council of State said something important: we are going back to everyday life – to the daily work. It is not primarily three-year-olds you turn to, but children and young people of school age. Let's say you spend a day or two a year at the science center, and then you go back to school. The situation of the real subjects in school is serious. We know that since the Vikings traveled the world in Viking ships, which no one else could build anything similar to it at all, real science competence has been the basis for growth and value creation in Norway. We still have world-leading environments in chemistry, physics, mathematics and a number of technology disciplines. The undergrowth of these world-leading environments, on the other hand, is under heavy pressure at school, but also at lower levels at universities and colleges. What I'm afraid is that the enthusiasm that I'm absolutely sure is that not only my daughter, but also students and students experience when they visit a science center, milk is played when you come back to a school where you meet teachers with not necessarily weak real science skills, but with increasingly weaker real science skills, because many of the most qualified teachers are about to disappear from school. They meet laboratories that are not close to being suitable for neither creating nor maintaining enthusiasm and commitment to the real subjects. The fact is that even in new high schools today, it is not necessarily the laboratory infrastructure of the students to boast. This is also reflected in the fact that the doctoral programmes at universities and colleges in Norway are unfortunately fewer and fewer applicants with a background from the Norwegian school. What I'm trying to say is that I think the science centres are a good and useful tool for creating enthusiasm. I like to share a lot of the interpellant's views at the science centers. But in relation to the promise that Norwegian real-time environments actually need, the science centres are just a small part. I have noted that the government has made a real-life strategy. I wish we had had the opportunity to discuss it in Stortinget. We don't. It's going to remain a strategy, not a message, unless the Council of State can say something else about it today. I would like to stress once again that it does not help to create enthusiasm and commitment to the real science of Norwegian students in one day at a science centre unless you have an offer in school that is good enough to build on the enthusiasm that has been created. When the government does not want to discuss its real science strategy here in Stortinget, I think we have to invite the government from the opposition to a major debate on how to really get speed on the real subjects in Norway, to ensure that we can still get value creation and growth through real science competence. Part of the answer is the science centers, but that's not the answer alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e892	This is an exciting theme. That is exciting because the science centers invite small and large ones to a different meeting with others. math and physics. During the Bondevik II government, the state came on the track. Finally, the White Centres will say, and plans were drawn up for how the State could participate in and back up this initiative. There are many good reasons why the State should assume greater responsibility in the further development and operation of the knowledge centres. The most important thing is to arouse the interest in real science in more and so early that the kids understand that mathematics and physics are worth betting on. The interpellant has presented the challenges facing science centres in an excellent way. It's an improperly luxurious problem that many of the centers are being cleaned up by interested children and adults, not to mention attendance from school. A growing number of teachers and schools have discovered which source of inspiration the science centres represent with their many activities and exhibitions. The country’s science centres thus feel that they play the role of both the public circus and the serious partner for the school, where both students and teachers express enthusiasm for the offer. In that case, it may not be so strange that the initiators are impatient and call for the proposed stepping up of the state contribution to the enterprises. No one disagrees that the centres should also have other partners, but the science centres find it difficult – perhaps understandable – to explain and ask for increased grants from other partners when the state appears to be at ease with its hands and its subsidies are about on-site. The White Centres are located across the country, but not all have access to the same state funding. The right has called for and proposed government funding for science centres in the South. In addition, I would like to point out that some knowledge centres, such as Northern Norway White Centre, shall serve an entire part of the country, with the challenges that come with it. Long travel distances allow the White Centre with base in Tromsø to conduct extensive outreach activities in order to maximise the reach of the offer. In order to fill the regional role better, the Centre has also started cooperation with NAROM on Andy Island and its first Newtonian rum, which is established in Harstad. The framework conditions for the knowledge centres are different, but in common with all, staff are in the process of meeting the curiosity of the centres from the public. Several of the centres have either entered their own premises or have premises under construction. Therefore, the right considers that the State should review the operating conditions of the knowledge centres in order to provide an even better offer in the future. Traditional museums have strengthened their budgets and opportunities such as the arena of experiences. The White Centres cannot be said to have participated in the same development, and now the tour must have come to them, also because the Science Centres are mentioned and referred to as part of the Government's real science initiative, which several people here have been involved in. If this is to become a reality, it is now time to give priority to the White Centres also in budgetary terms. If they are to live up to their role in the real science strategy, money must follow words. From those who work at the science centers, and the head of the Newton Room in Harstad, we hear about students with stars in the islands who are trolled by the activities to which they are invited. The White Centres and the Newton Room are like a little water hole that you can dive into and find the strangest things on the bottom, which you can take back to teaching. Catching the interest in the real subjects at a young age I think is the best way to solve the lack of realists, which is going to affect the whole community if we don't have the ability to recruit more students for these subjects. That should in itself be the best argument in the government's budget debates, no matter what industries you think this country will live on in the future. For example, we might mention that the visions of renewable energy as a major future industry in Norway could never be realised without stable and increased availability of realists. It's where the science centres and the new Newton rooms can play an important role and so little real science seed that society will later be able to harvest in the form of fully trained real science candidates.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e911	Most of it will be better in Norway with an active, offensive, tax-funded public sector. We have had many debates here in Stortinget that remind us of it – perhaps except when we are discussing our budget. The White Centre is important. They are important for kids – as we have learned now is from three years old – up until we become retired. They also play – it's underlined by, among other things. Kristin Halvorsen – a great role for those who are involved in the development, operation and financing of these centers. It gives awareness of the importance of knowledge or knowledge for regional development, and not least of the importance of cooperation, or interaction, for regional development. All the projects that have this in themselves that they are a cooperation between municipalities, county councils and state and business, colleges and universities I always have a great sense of. That's why I also have a great sense of science. They are important for regional development. Obviously, something that we think works well, which is both right and important in so many ways, is something we want more of. Of course, we want it to be well and long-term and properly funded. And that's something that – it's been underlined by several people here – we want to be not just an additional offer, but it's going to be an element of what we'll call a comprehensive training offer in Norway. A problem on the user side is – as Elisabeth Aspaker was a little bit involved – the cost of many municipalities and county councils, i.e. the school owners. Then I don't just think of heads and ears, but not least in time. I can start from my own region. It is far from Otta and Skåk and Kongswinger to the Gjøvik Witness Centre – not to mention the distances up in North Norway, as Elisabeth Aspaker mentioned in his post. Visiting such a centre will mean less time and money for other activities. It does as far as I can judge the situation that it is primarily in the big cities that this can now work, i.e. for those schools that are close to the eight centers that we've got here. So, most of the schools in North Norway are very far away from the Witness Centre in Tromsø. North Norway is much more than Tromsø. Inland is much more than Gjøvik – hope there is no one from Uppland Workerblad here who covers what I said now. We knew in advance – I know that from my own situation in Uppland – that it would be difficult to run a witness centre in such a scattered region as Uppland and Hedmark, i.e. the Inland. But despite that, we got this good mobilization, because we saw at the same time how important this is to us. This is not just a question of better financing and more money. But I think that anyway, when we only have eight pieces – and even if we get two-three-four more, which we might want and hope to have afterwards – this will still be an offer that most schools are far away. Then we can compensate to some extent for the fact that the White Centre goes out – we can use the web, etc. But it is and will be almost at the limit of an insoluble problem, I think we have an offer here that the schools in large parts of Municipality-Norway and County Norway will have a long journey distance to, and so it will be problematic to integrate. So it's a demanding concept. It's a great concept. Then we will be sincerely hoping that it will develop more and more in a way – technologically, offering and economically – that will make us really able to say that it will be part of our overall training offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e926	The President does not know whether the Stenographic Reports from Stortinget are being read in Oppland Arbeiderblad, but we will see!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e929	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Warloe, for addressing an important topic, because there is no doubt that the situation for the real subjects in Norwegian school is serious. Studies such as TIMSS and PISA have shown that Norwegian youth believe that science is important to society, but that few can imagine a future job in science or technology. Compared to many other countries, far fewer high school students choose real-time depression, especially in basic subjects such as physics and mathematics. At the same time, knowledge of mathematics, natural sciences and technology is central to the further development of a modern and value-creating society. This means that it is important to put in place measures that can motivate young people to invest in technology and real life. There is no doubt that the science centres around the country are invaluable measures in this context. Both international and Norwegian studies confirm that visits to science centres affect children and young people’s interest in real science, technology and science. A strong focus on science centres will therefore be an important measure to increase the choice of education in these areas. The interpellant focuses on the fact that the Government’s commitment to the science centres through State grants is not sufficient to ensure the quality and economic standard they should have. Although it has been suggested in the past that the state contribution should be one third, the reality is that several of the centres only receive about one third. 10 pst. of its income from the country. Although this is not a budgetary debate, it is important to illustrate that this is a framework that actually makes the development of these centres demanding. Another serious moment is that the Government will not allow more knowledge centres than those currently covered by the scheme to receive state support. As a result, the Government also maintains a system that does not cater for all parts of the country. There are several regional science centres throughout the country, but there is no one in the South. The development of the South Sea port of knowledge in Arendal has been ongoing since 2006. The White Centre will be an important part of the knowledge ports, where the intention is to stimulate children and young people's interest in real science. It sounds kind of like what the science centers want to do. They have been opened in temporary facilities, and the first training facility is now offered to some schools that are part of the SMARTEER energy programme. After the programme period, this educational programme will be available to other schools. Why do I highlight this? Of course because I'm a southerner, and believe that all parts of the country should have access to a science centre – and because I think it's rather worrying that before the last part of the country came in, you pulled up the ladder. The reason why I highlight this is that, after visiting some science centers around the country, I see that one of the strengths of the science centers is just the anchoring they have in their own local history, in the local business community and the things that actually matter to local historical development. Visiting the Jären Science Centre shows that using technology from real science, science and science can get a knowledge of its own history and the development of the Hungarian agriculture and history around it. Similarly, all parts of the country need to have a science centre that can be a catalyst for the things that that part of the country has developed. In the South, technological developments in mechatronics and offshore and drilling are at stake. The competence around this is enormous. I don't think you should have pulled up the ladder until the last part of the country came in. The Council of State called for good arguments in order to win out in the budgetary battle. Then I'll give her one last kid. Governments have shown a whole new interest in the Christian People's Party, which has been calling for the school debate for many years, namely, bet on practically strong students and a practical theory in a completely different way. I believe that the dissemination of knowledge between teachers and those who run the science centres, on how to practice theory in subjects that are highly theoretical to the common, is an inspirational source – not only for the students who come, but also for the teachers. So if you really want to bet on getting a practical-oriented high school, you should have invested in the science centres, developed them into a source of inspiration – also for teachers in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e949	I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate, including the Council of State. I registered that the Council of State said that I did not demand ambitions, but money. The money comes as known in the budget and is being debated there. Now, with our current majority rule, when the budget comes, there's not much left to debate. So it's important that some of us keep this warm throughout the year. But I actually demanded ambitions for further use and further development of the science centre sector. I agree that this must be a fissure layer, as it is most today, with the state as one of the smallest actors. However, in further development to ensure continued success for the Norwegian knowledge centres, it is therefore the State that has to take responsibility for raising this further, as the State is behind the other grant partners. So we can't get away with that. I must say that I cannot understand those who have talked about everything that is not good enough at school in the field of real-time education, that the schools have problems offering a good enough education – and who use this as an argument against investing in the science centres. It is, of course, an argument to bet on the science centres as partners for schools. We cannot have the ambition that each school should be able to offer the diversity of high-level experiences and learning that science centres can offer. There must therefore be stronger strategic cooperation between the Schools-Norway and the Science Centres. I agree with the representative of Dagrun Eriksen that all parts of the country should be inside. That there's a distance between schools and the science centers, and that not every school is necessarily the closest neighbor to a science center, is also no argument, because that's always the way it is. The same argument can be used against museum betting in Norway, and most people in this country also live a while away from, for example. Opera in Oslo. So that's an irrelevant argument. In the previous inter-pelling debate, we discussed the challenges of empowerment for teachers. We know that real science competence is a sore point, or an important point in the competence of teachers in general in Norwegian school. There is certainly also a great potential to build on the cooperation between school owners responsible for education and knowledge centres. I have understood that, as a practical opportunity for teachers in education and, if necessary, further education and training, the science centre has fallen out of the new regulations for teacher training, and I wonder whether the Council of State can confirm it or, hopefully, disapprove it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e958	This last question that the representative of Warloe raised, I must be allowed to investigate a bit and come back with a proper answer. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Stortinget for an engaged and balanced debate. In the real science initiative, I think there is a broad consensus that – I think it was the representative of Aspaker who was involved in it – the science centres can plant a seed of interest. It is clear that this can be done by the knowledge centres — with their tools, their environment and their experience. But the irrigation and fertilization that are needed to get something done actually happens every day by the real-time teachers and the environment you manage to get up, and also – I think – how to prepare for visits to the science centres, how to use the experiences you have there in retrospect, and how teachers can be inspired to see if it is possible to take some ideas from there, and perhaps carry them out in a simpler way in their own school days. Perhaps this can also be done through feedback from the teachers to the science centres on how it actually works towards the work they do every day in order to gain the interest and knowledge of real science. I fully agree with the representative Dagrun Eriksen that the science centres can often be a great inspiration for how a practical approach can approach theory that can be extremely abstract, but which, with good methods, good imagination and good knowledge and knowledge, is often very – what to say – simple and practical to organize. I have witnessed a number of poodles that have visited the science centers, but have not managed to put it in any kind of context with what else you learn in school. That is also a kind of challenge. It is quite obvious that now that we are working on the report on high school, which is a particularly challenging step in school, the science centres can participate in – what to say – being the arena that can make training there more real, more interesting, and in contact with what students see have to do with everyday life and real issues. I thank you for the debate that has taken place. We'll get back to the budget when it comes. But it is quite right, as the interpellant is concerned, that discussing important and important issues that we also know are budgetary issues is quite appropriate to do between the budgetary procedures as well. Then we get back to how we balance the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e971	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e985	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1001	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1017	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1033	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1041	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1048	During the debate, Øyvind Håbrek has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to provide an overall assessment of the conditions of the voluntary sector, including incentive schemes such as tax deductions, limits on payroll and employer’s obligation to pay, etc. be taken into account, at the latest, in the submission of the revised State budget for 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1068	In Case No: 2 and 3 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1075	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1082	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1089	The representative of Mr Øyvind Håbreek has asked for the floor for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1092	In line with what was said during the debate on the matter, we want to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal, as the Council of State has met us from the pulpit that he wants to follow up his intention in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1097	The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government initiate a review of the right-to-visit adoption scheme and the manner in which it is practised as soon as sufficient experience is available.’ The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1109	The President assumes that the representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande should also have the floor for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1112	In the light of the debate on the matter and in the light of the answers given by the Council of State, I would like to make this proposal a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1117	In that case, the representative, Mr Skei Grande, has made the proposal for a transfer proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government come back with a revision of the adoption law based on the proposals made in NOU 2009: 21 Adoption – for the best of the child.’ The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-03.ana.ud898e1232	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
