ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e110	The representative Borghild Tende, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, has taken the seat. The representative Dagfinn Højbråten has applied for leave on 25 and 26 March in order to attend the Hague meeting of the Board of Directors of the GAVI vaccine fund. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of the Rogaland County, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e138	Kjell Arvid Svendsen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e143	On behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Bente Stein Mathisen, Svein Flätten and Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, I would like to make a proposal for the practice of classified healthcare in small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e148	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e151	On behalf of the representative Ulf Leirstein and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for tax relief in connection with the wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e156	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. In the light of yesterday's railway accident in Oslo and of respect for the victims and their relatives, the President, on a recommendation from the Committee on Transport, will, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, propose that Case No. 4 on the current map are postponed and taken up for treatment in a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e196	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 40 minutes, the Advance Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Left 10 minutes. Members of the Government shall be given a total speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition to this, state councils may need to obtain from the speaking time of the government parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e207	In 1913 the Kristiania Workers' Party adopted the following on the Kristiania National School: ‘The class difference already begins with primary school! We have fought and worked against this social immorality. In the name of justice, we have demanded that the beginning, however, should be the same for all to the great race of life, that no few be favored from school at the expense of the many. Let our children begin on the same line and under equal kar!» In many ways, this is still the case: all children and young people should have equal rights and equal access to education. The aim must be for each one to experience their development in line with their own abilities and needs. Education policies shall be aimed at providing all opportunities for education through early action and increased quality throughout the training cycle. Access to free education is a fundamental good and a fundamental prerequisite for a well-being society, because knowledge is necessary in order to live a good life in a modern society and in order to create the values we will live on. Public high school has been one of the most important means of developing the Norwegian society of what we know today, a society where there are little differences between people, and where, regardless of background, everyone has the opportunity to create a good life for himself. I would like to thank the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their good cooperation during the examination of this communication. There has been a lot of work that has been done by the different fractions. I think maybe sometimes we too have experienced that we have put some short temptations for ourselves, but it has been incredibly exciting to be allowed to work on a message that is so broad and where we have been able to see the relationship between the different educations and the needs of society. I would also like to thank all those who have made recordings through hearings, letters, telephones and the Education Portal of the Workers' Party. The main objective of the communication is to ensure that the labour market has the necessary skills in the future and to give it a safe place in the labour market. The main strategies to ensure this are to reduce the drop-out rate in secondary education, to provide formal and informal adult education and to ensure quality and accessibility to higher education. I would say a lot about this, but more speakers from the Labour Party will also elaborate on the views of the party in the various areas. This Communication clarifies in a good way the ambitions of the Government for the overall education policy. Nevertheless, it is not just up to the Government to succeed in meeting the ever-increasing need for more and more competences of society. A prerequisite is that all actors in the training fields take the appropriate and necessary action. The shift we have seen in Norwegian working life, which has been in the last 20–25 years, is likely to continue. Norway is already the OECD country with the lowest proportion of employees employed in occupations consisting of simple, routine tasks and not requiring training. The ability of enterprises to survive new changes will be linked to the ability of workers to adapt quickly and thus to their knowledge and skills. In the future, there will be fewer and fewer jobs in Norway that do not require higher education or higher education. Those who start school in 2012 will go into a working life where, according to the SSB, it will only be 3 pst. which will deal with primary schools as upper secondary education. At the same time, when we experience that one in three young people do not complete higher education, and thus fail to succeed in their education, it is not difficult to point out that this is one of the most serious challenges facing our society. Low implementation is not new, but it has become more visible after reform 94. Then the implementation increased from 30 to approx. 60 pst, at the same time as over 90 pst. entered the training. The problem is still too big, and it's also become more serious. We've got a growing number of kids on disability. In September 2009, 11 250 between 18 and 29 years of age were underprivileged. That's an increase of 36 pst. over 10 years. In a knowledge-based working life, those with the lowest level of education are at greatest risk of being out of the labour market. It is therefore essential that everyone completes secondary education and is able to pursue further studies or get to work. In this debate, it may seem that there are people who think it would be a solution to make school easier. The right writes, among other things: that they ‘mean society must take the consequence that the terrain does not match the map and change the map’. However, the OECD concludes that the large proportion of underwriters is due to a school that poses little challenge to each individual’s capacity. In other words, it is not because we make too high demands, but because there are too poor arrangements and lack of management systems in the education sector. So it's not a solution to lowering the theory requirement. Having knowledge of theory is important, but you don't have to learn theory solely through theoretical work. We get better skilled workers when they know the theory behind the work they're going to do. This enables individuals to make their own decisions in carrying out their work, and they become owners of their own knowledge. Today, eight out of ten professionals say that their competence makes it easy to apply for a new job. I think it's a very good indicator that the education given is good. Our challenge is to get everyone. We in the government parties don't think it's the students who are the problem. We have countless examples of schools and teachers who manage to get through, examples of learners, only they will be met in the right way. Low implementation does not have one solution, there is not one problem, and there is no political quick fix. It requires efforts from all, from the Council of State and the Department, education directorates, counties, school managers, principals, teachers, parents, but not least from individual students themselves. The characteristics of primary school leave are the most important. So what happens before you start high school is crucial for getting through. Many also quit because they do not have a place to learn. It is therefore important that we put in place a strategy to increase the number of teaching places in the public sector. The proposal in the Communication that the State must take ‘initiatives towards all stakeholders in order to assess the conclusion of a new social contract on the obligation to set up apprenticeships’ is supported by all parties outside the Progress Party. It should also be assessed whether a greater requirement should be imposed on those contracting with public enterprises to be apprentices. Government parties also support the development of a legal right to apprenticeship. It is also strange that Norwegian boys and girls continue to make educational choices and professional choices that lead to a highly gender-based labour market. It is important that we motivate both boys and girls to choose sexually untraditionally. That is why the government parties are promoting a proposal to this effect today. Several people already work well with this, and the project Girls in Bil & Elektro, which is a collaboration between NHO and LO, can be a template to look at for other professions. There are many major challenges to this Communication, which the Committee also addresses in its opinion. We're going to get bigger kids, with more people wanting to go to higher education. This will allow meeting the need for skills in the coming years, but it will also be a challenge to provide sufficient places of study and to ensure that education and training is of high quality. We have too many adults who are struggling with a lack of basic skills and who have problems mastering everyday life and participating in society. It is serious when changes in working life often take place quickly. It is then necessary to have a good framework for lifelong learning, and it is important that we continue to invest in the BKA Programme – the Programme for Basic Skills in Work – and that we have many good study associations. In the end, the SSB's projections show that we want a great need for people with intermediate education. This means, among other things: that more than today should choose vocational education. Vocational education is a good career path after an end to a diploma or a bachelor's degree, and clear transitions from a diploma to a vocational education can also help improve recruitment to a professional profession. We also need mechanisms to facilitate the transition to higher education after taking vocational education and to strengthen cooperation between the vocational schools and the higher education sectors. It is therefore a point that it is appropriate to consider whether we should have a system of vocational education credits, a system which will provide candidates with additional evidence of acquired competence and which should also simplify and lead to a greater predictability of admission to higher education or shortening the studies. The message and setting provide a good basis for further work. Everything doesn't end here. I thank you again for your cooperation and look forward to building an even stronger education system for Norway in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e259	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e262	The representative pointed out in his statement that working life needs good labour. He was also involved in the lack of teaching places in his post. Everyone is aware of the lack of learning places. The majority are in order to determine a guaranteed place of study, without joining in to the comment on the possibility of taking full-time professional letters at school. 75 pst. enterprises in Norway consist of one to five employees. Then it goes without saying that the capacity is not too large. The question is, does the majority really believe that a guarantee is feasible, or is this going to throw blues in the eyes of the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e267	I am glad that there are several parties that are also involved in several teaching places. What we've seen is that the students who have so far been supposed to learn by taking the last few years in school have failed when they've come to the exam, and have not been equally attractive to the workplace. There has been a great demand among students to take this training into business. I think that giving the individual a right to a course will put a completely different pressure on businesses, society and us to provide exactly the apprenticeships that are necessary for those in the profession to be fully trained.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e276	Students today meet a vocational training course with a common subject and theory adapted to the requirements of study competence. The government is calling for more professional correction, but the problem is that joint examination controls and limits how far professional correction can go. The right has proposed its own curricula and vocational exams, and we have noted with interest that an overall committee believes that a joint centrally awarded examination is an obstacle to the professional correction of English. Can the representative Wickholm explain why it is such that English must have its own exam, but not central subjects such as Norwegian and mathematics, where more relevant professional content is requested both from students and from teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e283	The representative of Wickholm knows that. These include: because English is a graduate of the profession after the first two years. It's a centrally given exam, while the other exams may be given locally. It is therefore possible to design them in such a way as to meet the need for professional correction. But there is nothing in the comments of the majority parties that we do not want to do so. We point out that the examination is a challenge for professionalism, and we point in particular to the fact that English is a subject that needs to be addressed. I don't think there's any disagreement there. In addition, I believe it is important that we also have a stronger focus on the professional programme disciplines and not just the common subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e288	There's one thing in the message that I think the entire committee is concerned about, but which I think you might have different answers to. If you are in higher education and are using your right to re-election and fail to complete, today you have to wait until you are 25 years before you get the opportunity to re-start high school if you are motivated to do so. The LO has earlier said in this committee – in consultations – that they want this 25-year limit away, because they believe that when people are motivated, there must be an opportunity for them to come back. The Christian People's Party has also been called for in this setting. We believe that the 25-year limit is unnatural, because then you might have gotten into a pattern you can't get out of. That is why I now challenge the representative Wickholm: What is the reason why we want to maintain this 25-year limit, and therefore expose people to the possibility of re-entering education and working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e297	You have a right to education, but there's nowhere that you can't get education. There are many examples of students who have used up their rights, who are allowed to take another few years in high school. The reason why you want to have this 25 year limit is that you have to have the opportunity to apply for real skills, i.e. you have to be able to take higher education without having completed, for example. continuation course or passed other examinations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e304	The President is wondering if Mr Wickholm has any suggestions he would like to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e308	The representative would like to comment on proposal No. 35, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, which are distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e313	Then the President is satisfied. The representative of Truls Wickholm has taken up the proposal he referred to. Replicate cord shift is complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e318	I do not want to thank the President-in-Office for his cooperation. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Wickholm, for having made sure that we received a position for consideration in the Chamber today. But at least I haven't experienced any pronounced need from the position to listen to attempts at good playback from the right. But, as I said, thank the rapporteur for doing a good job to get the job set into the Chamber. The collaboration I think we'll get to work on. Clearly, what we are discussing today has an enormous impact on the welfare society of Norway in the decades to come. No matter what we're going to conclude on the Lofoten and the Vestral, it's this foundation and what comes out of what we're deciding today, we're going to live on in the future. I have to say – speaking of the Lofoten and the Vesterålen – that I have sometimes missed the Energy and Environment Committee in this process. It's black and white – either you're too wolf, or you're brave, either you're for opening in Lofoten and the Westphalian, or you're brave. But I see that knowledge is for everyone. So that's the way to as much knowledge as possible that there's a slightly greater degree of disagreement about. The big message we are debating today, I have also previously been called 'the mother of all school-politics bigmouths' from Stortinget's pulpit. I stand by that. I believe it is going through the situation in the school and the UH sector in a thorough manner today, the challenges that are there, the national and international trends that will affect and challenge the situation, and how it could affect the knowledge economy and knowledge management of the Norwegian welfare society in the decades to come. But in view of the challenges described in the communication, I am not sure that we have done very concrete work. We know Norway uses 40 pst. more on education than the average in the OECD. At the same time, we get 20 pst. poorer results. Then I have to say that the absence of concrete measures is somewhat alarming. Most of what you might say is similar to concrete action, I don't think it's good either. I'll come back to that on a later occasion, also to the things that I think are right. I'll take a look back at the story. I feel that since the 1970s, Norwegian education policy has been governed by ideology. There have been major reforms that have been building on knowledge councils — one after the other with different names and titles. As a result, we have had major changes in Norwegian schools with teachers with good educational skills, but not necessarily with change skills. The result has been that the changes that have been adopted have been partially implemented before a new reform is launched. I am not saying now that this is the fault of the left-hand side. I want to use an example from a dean that I met in connection with one of the fractional journeys. This dean said that Norwegian school has been exposed to ideological drunkenness from ditch to ditch. I think that is a good description of the reforms that Norwegian school has been subjected to. This is bad, because it is known from international research that the countries in which parliaments and parties agree on the broad lines of education policy and the priority of school, education and research are the best successful countries. In view of this, I believe that both St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009 and the examination of the Committee to some extent must be said to be positive. I feel that there is less ideology this time than it has been in former school-political crossroads in this room. I think that's a good sign. The 2005 SV programme states: ‘On the basis of an ever-increasing international community and business life, SV believes it is important to organise so that everyone’ – my emphasis – ‘students should have equal rights to take quality training abroad, both full and partial studies, irrespective of their economic and social background. In order to ensure broad international competence, SV considers it important that more students are given the opportunity to take degree studies in non-English-speaking countries.’ At the end of my post I hope to come forward with a proposal, among other things. about this. There are not many of the SV's software formulations I wholeheartedly support, but this wording I just read up, I fully support. It is a pity that SV is today going to vote against this proposal, which I will promote on behalf of the entire opposition. The consequence will be that in the future too there will be few students travelling to Brazil, Russia, India and China – the big economies of growth in the world. There will be sons and daughters of the midwives who will study at the best American universities also in the future, because people with normal economy can't travel and take a freshman year in the United States. Then we'll probably get an example of sitting here on the Stortinget and adopting a policy that reinforces the social differences in society. That's how we in Norway think we have the best school in the world. State Council Halvorsen has previously said that I am very pessimistic – it is very good in Norwegian school as well. I want to quote from the Wilderness. Hedvig in the Wilderness had a wilderness, and it used Ibsen as a picture of a life lie. One of the characters in Vildand said: "If you take the lie of life from an average human being, you shall immediately take happiness from him." The belief that our school is prepared to tackle the challenges that the next 100 years will bring to the welfare community is a life lie. I've taken the big numbers in relation to the OECD. I want to say that the girls do it worse than the average in the OECD, marginally worse than the average. The boys make it much worse, and the trend is falling. The exception is reading, so I will not be challenged on it, but the trend is not very optimistic. I think one of the reasons why we're arguing too much – so we're running this school policy from the right to the left is that we're letting the school say that if the 4th grade doesn't meet their skills goals, it's okay. If you don't do it in the sixth grade either, it's okay, because it's definitely going to be in the eighth grade, and when the students get in the ninth grade, you put the measures in place. When competence in engineering in Norway goes down, we say the same thing: it's because higher education is doing too bad a job. And when the high school dropout increases, it's about we doing too little in primary school. I think the key is past measures to a greater extent than today. I believe formal characters and measurement of achievement of competence goals as early as in the fifth grade is part of the way to go. I also think that the way to go to change the dropout in high school is to do something about the way you teach. There are still three central parties on the matter of the Knowledge Lift. But I feel that perhaps the Advance Party and the Right have changed their place. I don't think we're going to have professional workers out of vocational education without knowing the society they're going to be part of. But I got a very good example yesterday. Why not teach professionals how their subjects have behaved in history? What would the French revolution have been without the apprentices who went out on the street with high forks, etc.? I think that can be a way to arouse enthusiasm and understanding about how their subject also stands in the European context, because most subjects are in a Western European historical context. You might even be able to arouse the interest that masons and bakers also want to learn French. At least I want them to have the opportunity to do that. But it's obvious that this needs to be adapted to the individual subjects. Then the time goes surprisingly fast when you talk about something important. I haven't gotten into the youth wave as much as I had hoped. I'll come back to it later, but I just want to say that the youth wave is a gift package for the government. In addition to strengthening the vocational school – as Wickholm was in the house – we do not give it to the county councils, but take it back to the state, we can do some things. We can reduce research in the UH sector, we can take fewer students, or we can go down from the 1990s: we can take more students without giving more money. There are three alternatives I think are bad. The good solution is more money for right-hand education and research. Then I'm going to end with another Ibsen quote: "Not a thousand Words print like a Making Track." Action counts more than words. I am addressing the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone and the proposals on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e369	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President would otherwise point out that the exchange of committees of the representative Tord Lien has led to an increase in knowledge, and the President is pleased. Otherwise, the President is in doubt as to whether ‘ideological drunkenness’ is a parliamentary expression. But it was a quote from a dean, so we'll leave it there. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e378	At least I want to start by giving praise to the representative Lien, first because he continues our tradition of quoting Ibsen in this committee, as we do in the hall, and then because I have to agree with the analysis of this with the ideology that has shaped Norwegian school, and that it can be dampened to the advantage, not least because the school is a very important arena for all children growing up, and we politicians have a responsibility not to make it a party-political champion. That being said, there's one thing I want to hang out with in the post, and that's what's wrong with today's childhood assessment system. The numbers given in grades are an interval that just tells us something about good or bad, nothing about content. The primary school has a very good assessment system in terms of content. What's wrong with today's system? Of course, the secondary school system must be aimed at entering higher education, and a number system must then be in place. That need is not present at high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e385	I am primarily concerned that we have a system that allows early action to be taken. It is not certain that the only gratifying thing is grades. Now it's been a few years since I left primary school. I am of the opinion that the surroundings around me followed more closely how I achieved my competence goals when I got grades than in the situation before. I think giving grades makes sense because you create a greater focus on how much students have achieved their skills goals, and it's easier, hopefully, to allocate resources to help those who have the greatest challenges in achieving these skills goals. But it's not the characters in themselves that are the goal. It is to identify the level of achievement of skills objectives and the ability to allocate key early efforts. If the Labour Party has a better proposal, I am willing to listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e392	I also agree that Tord Lien had a good post, his first in the debate, so this is going to be some nice hours ahead. Then I disagree with how the concept of ideology is used, because in my opinion it is equally ideological what we are doing today, but it is a different kind of ideology. I can come back to that in my main post. I have a question for the Progress Party that goes into what is originally on page 7. At the bottom of the first column, an overall committee states that ‘there must be an objective that everyone should complete secondary education and be able to pursue further studies or take up work’. And then we go to the next column. There we get our own comment from the Progress Party, which shows that the Progress Party really regrets what they were at the bottom of the first column. Here it says that now not "absolutely all" shall do so. There shall be something to ‘want’. They should be more able to go out with ‘some form’ of competence, but that it does not apply to everyone’ — once again — and you have to accept that it has to be a little bit of a ‘ability or desire’. What does the Progress Party really think, not least against point 1, that we believe that getting education is important, and point 2 of the future labour market needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e403	First of all, I have to say that I agree with both representatives that the representative Lien made a good contribution. Having said that, I have to say that, first of all, we are concerned that if now a total increase then until those degrees say that it is only those who actually have a formal secondary education in addition to primary school, who are going to participate in the future career, then I fear that it is stigmatizing. Then I feel a stronger and stronger need to remind the left side of one of the old slogans from the left: ‘Do your duty, demand your right.’ As far as I know, there was no coincidence that ‘make your duty’ came before ‘require your right.’ It has to be that you have to have a willingness to participate in this education system yourself in order for it to be an objective that even those who have no interest in it will get through. But first of all, this is about stigmatisation of those who don't want to take that education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e412	Now Tord Lien has taken up the proposals of the Advance Party. In one of the proposals, they propose to amend the Training Act §8-2 so that one can create classes for good students and classes for stupid students. There was something Norway missed in the 1970s. The OECD believes that it is a quality at Norwegian school that all young people acquire learning where acceptance for different functional and knowledge levels becomes a natural part of school life. The Progress Party would also like to see characters from the 5th stage, which the representative has been involved in. I wonder, when does the Progress Party think that we're going to start dividing the students into classes according to whether they're stupid or nice? And who will stand for this selection? Should it be done on the basis of grades, or should there be a general test of theoretical or practical level?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e419	There were many questions, I have to say. First of all, level division of classes is no longer allowed in anything we're doing here in the house. But we know that the level-sharing of education is taking place today. We know that in many schools. I had the pleasure of campaigning with Øystein Djupedal – we represented the same county in his time – and even he has praised the level-sharing of teaching, for example. in mathematics, physics, chemistry and science. When you know that it's happening today, and openly accept that it's happening today, why can't you remove the legal ban on level education in school? It is not the case that the Progress Party proposes to oblige the school owners to introduce level-shared education. We propose to remove a ban on level-shared education. I think it'll be up to the school owners to find out if they want to do it, and in what way they find it most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e430	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e434	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the review. Although the Committee broadly agrees with the diagnosis, there is some disagreement when it comes to measures and dimensioning. The promise of knowledge means that from day one, the school will focus on the learning outcomes of the students, where the basic skills are the smallest and most important building blocks. With more and more competent teachers, we have to have the ambition that Norwegian students will be able to increase their learning outcomes and that Norway will climb on the scoreboards of the international studies. Right is pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is also concerned that Norway should make progress in the PISA ranking. A primary school that equips students with good basic skills is essential to prevent problems when day-to-day demands are increasing in youth and in secondary education. Early efforts must involve the active use of monitoring tools and national tests by the school to capture students who have problems. Early help, which means that more young people complete a training course, is money saved for society, but most importantly, it is saving the young people for the defeat of training. Norwegian school has a problem with significant gender differences related to student performance. They are larger in Norway than in other countries. The right is satisfied with the fact that a Joint Committee asks the Government to increase its research efforts to find the answers to why and how the school can better meet boys’ needs and thereby prevent non-response. In the Right’s view, parents are still a under-utilised resource in school. Many parents have a strong desire to keep a closer eye on the professional and social development of their pupils. The school must involve and inform parents so that they can become even better support in school years. The training line can be considered as a bridge-building project between education and working life in order to meet an increasing skill needs from the first to the last working day. In both the private and public sectors, most workers will have to acquire new skills throughout their working life. It requires dialogue between education and working life if the education system is to provide the society with skilled labour in an efficient way. Flexibility and accessibility are two key criteria for basic and continuing training provision. Right-wing fears that Norway will slow down as a knowledge nation because there is not enough investment in education. The government has not made good use of the opportunities offered by the good years. We've got a lot more times to wait for. In its 2010 alternative budget, the right proposed an additional billion of knowledge to strengthen Norway as a knowledge nation, but the proposal fell on stone floor. Although there is cross-political agreement on the challenges, the Right believes that the Government does not do what is necessary to stop the drop-out in secondary education in order to meet a significant student growth in the coming years to ensure that all adults master the basic skills to facilitate a more flexible training offer to recruit more and better teachers from primary school to our universities The government has now been in office for five years and is expected to be held responsible for what is not working. Schooling and learning require work effort, whether you are 6, 16 or 26 years old. We need a school that meets the students with greater humility, where different students are to be given equal opportunities. And even though many students today are struggling in high school and high school, the answer is not to relax on the requirements and make the school as cool as possible. A few weeks ago, Prime Minister, Minister of Knowledge and Minister of State Sogn visited high school. The principal's report was ready: the government is perhaps too naive in its school policy, and the school content must not be made a matter of being a cool or not. Stoltenberg and Halvorsen then acknowledged that it was to be tightened up for absence, and that the students had to be required. Nevertheless, today's government parties are voting for proposals on this. The opposition parties have made a number of proposals during the examination of the education notification. From the position, on the other hand, we have read about proposals in the newspapers: from the Workers' Party on pre-school youth, on the doubling of the number of apprentices in the country and on the tightening of absenteeism rules, from SV on an apprenticeship tax for enterprises and on the statutory right to an apprenticeship. But the mystery is where these proposals have become in the vote. The educational line could become a bigger one, as Tord Lien was inside, but today we are again shown that there is hardly enough movement on a comma during the comitology of matters from the Government – despite many wise recordings, among other things. during the hearing on the Education Line. In particular, the right has been involved in the problems of professional dismissal and, in January, presented the Professional lift, a set of proposals to raise the status of the professions and build up under their specific characteristics. In an interview a little later, after this was presented, Rolf Jørn Karlsen, the head of the Karlsen Committee, commented on the proposals of the Professional Council as follows: ‘What Erna Solberg has proposed is a blue copy of the Karlsen Committee’. Such feedback from the head of the Karlsen Committee is of course pleasant, but with this certificate from Karlsen it is disappointing that the red-greens cannot support any of the proposals. At the hearing on the Education Line, more people were concerned that politicians had to act quickly to get out of control. To the evening post, the Minister of Knowledge has said that she will be measured on results in three years' time. We have to have greater ambitions about pace than this! The country must go ahead and from the coming harvest set up with far more places of learning, and its schools need better guidance to combat non-response. The question is also whether we are using the resources correctly Do we get what we want from the follow-up and counselling service today? The drop-out must be for two reasons: society needs the labour force, we need more professionals in the time to come, and as many young people as possible must be given the best possible starting point for their working life. The right now challenges the government to do more of what actually works, to prevent high school apostasy. The right considers that more extensive action is needed in order to obtain vocational training on the professional premises. The Minister of Knowledge has made it a key point that there is no time to wait for new curricula and their examinations in the Community. At the same time, the State Council of Halvorsen indicates that a professional correction of the subjects will take place within the current framework. But I think the Council of State is wrong. Now it is admitted that this does not work for English. In fact, the entire committee is behind the fact that new, adapted exams need to be in the profession in order to get a good enough professional correction. We have listened, and it is Right's view that we will not achieve adequate professional correction without changes in professional plans and examinations of our own in the so-called common subjects. Absence of apprenticeships is an important cause of non-response after two years in a professional field. But it's a dangerous trail of blindness when government parties are now going to spend time investigating the law of learning space in the belief that it will solve the problem. Legislation has been discussed and clearly rejected by the Karlsen Committee as a non-implementation measure. Recently, the SV team has called for the introduction of an apprenticeship tax for all enterprises. With respect to reporting, both proposals are just as useless. Legislation is and will become symbolism policy as long as it is a third party, the companies, which are required to provide a state-owned learning place guarantee. And new taxes are the last Norwegian business and businesses now need. Right-wing calls for positive incentives to provide more learning places. Forcing the companies apprentices will not work for either company or student. The right has faith in a new social contract, as proposed by the Karlsen Committee, between the education authorities and the social partners to lower the threshold for taking in apprentices. We have faith in removing the employer’s fee, we need to assess the size of the apprentice’s grant, we need to make better provision for smaller enterprises to become apprentices, and we need clear targets and ambitions for apprentices in the public and private sectors. And the state cannot continue as an apprentice host! We don't have any more kids to lose. The right will have rapid action that can take effect from the coming school years. If the Government comes to the Stortinget with such measures in the context of the revised national budget in May, the Right will be positive to it. The educational line extends over a broad theme, and later speakers from the Right will return to special vocational schools and higher education. I take up the suggestions from the Right. Then I will come back to a later post and comment on the proposals from the Left and the Government fraction that have been presented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e521	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e526	First of all, I would like to say that it is that the Right is in favour of this proposal to introduce an advance rate; they are in a position to comment on the vote. The right-hand side says they want tailor-made curricula for upper secondary education. But that's exactly what they removed last time they had power. Former Danish Councillor Hernes made up for the management of each subject with specific curricula. Former State Councillor Clement, with political adviser Aspaker, removed this, and showed it before the Stortinget in Culture for Learning, which came in 2004. The promise of knowledge also introduced an even wider race than reform 94. That might be what Tord Lien is talking about when he says you go from ditch to ditch. It's a little hard to figure out what it really means to the Right, because they obviously think what's very opportune to mean, when they're in opposition, and then they kind of have a sensible and rational school policy when they're in position. Then we probably just have to wait until the next time to see what the Right really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e533	I can reassure the representative of Wickholm that the Right is pursuing a school policy where we are concerned that the students are going to master the school, that they are going to benefit from the school, and that they are going to do well to complete the school. The right has suggested that we now take the consequence that we have a major non-response, and that there is a mismatch between the content of curricula in the professional field and the need that professional organisations also say they have for the knowledge of the students who come out. It can't be a political fallout that we get a school that actually gives students the knowledge they need to practice their profession when they get out, is finished and has completed an education. So I just want to say that what's ruined for the professions is that there was a study qualification that made even those students who aren't going to go on studying are forced into a lot of theory that they won't need in their working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e542	First, a comment to this effect that the position does not support in many of the opposition's comments. It is to a very large extent due to the fact that the opposition has taken little account of the development that is taking place in the ministry in a very large number of areas. Where we record that positive work is ongoing, the opposition has chosen to close its eyes and make its own proposals. So I'll pursue a little bit of what the Right is doing in opposition to what they're doing in position. Among other things, in the setting, the Right-Large number makes it clear that the position has not regulated the study aid. But when the Right himself sat in government, the Right did not do it at all; that government did not do it at all. The Bondevik II government did not make that regulation. For me, this is another typical example of offensive and tough running when you're in opposition, and then you forget what you did when you were in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e549	I almost don't know how to start here, because what's a little bit of the problem with the education message and with some other games coming from the Ministry of Knowledge and the Councils is that you say you're in the process of doing something, but the point is that we haven't got the case presented in the Stortinget – you've explained the suggestions and things that are referred to in the newspapers. That the representatives of the government parties have a different dialogue with their trade union councils and their party chambers in the government quarter, that's natural, that's the way it is, but that doesn't mean that the opposition has all the knowledge that government parties' representatives do. I wish we had more issues for Stortinget and that we had a better chance of going into many of the issues that are important and that the message just sucks away. In the case of the study aid, the representative Hagen may be right that we did not achieve the ambitions we had when we ourselves put in government, but at that time there were significantly different economic times in the kingdom than what this government had had as its starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e556	A number of proposals have been put forward to promote professional careers. I have read these suggestions carefully, and I do not fully understand where the promise lies. As the letter from the Council of State to the Committee points out, and as the communication also shows, there is little new in those proposals. What's most eye-catching is that one believes that if you get less theory, the professions get more status. My question is therefore: How does the Right believe that Norwegian trade union workers and enterprises should be able to take care of, for example, in the future. industry standards and certification requirements, while increasing the status of professionals, including: reducing the requirements of the Community?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e561	I'm very happy to get that question, because we haven't said we're going to have less theory, we've said we're going to have more professional theory. What the trade unions are saying to us is that when they get what they think are fully educated apprentices and professionals, they have many, often hundreds of hours of post-graduate training of this skilled worker from day one, because there is as much as the school has not had time to go through and learn them. It's about taking the subject seriously, giving so much time in education that you can train and give it the content of the education that is actually the requirement of the day you're going to work, whether it's as a plumber, hairdresser or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e566	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e569	This Storing Message and current settings provide a good picture of Education Norway, Research Norway included. It has well captured the issues that characterise the current political and professional debate, and that is good. I would also like to commend the rapporteur and all the other authors of the text, and not least our committee secretary, who has managed to put this together. Many people can learn a lot from reading these pages. The vast majority of us like to have knowledge, we like to know and we like to learn. It gives personal joy and security and not least a good sense of mastery in our social relationships with people, at school, in the organization and in the workplace. The Community, not least in a knowledge-based economy like ours, also depends on knowledge being valued, and on all of us seeking knowledge and competence, but also on all of us being involved in developing knowledge, skills and skills. Knowledge and skills must count, make a difference, whether a society should call itself a modern knowledge society. That's why I'm glad we have two government councils that talk up education and research, that stimulate and encourage, that give trust, that know that the vast majority of us both want and can, both individuals and school owners, teachers, etc. I believe far more in such a positive offensive approach than this counter, measuring and controlling agent that the Right Party and the Advance Party would like to expose both students, teachers and school owners to. When it's written over 100 pages - I wrote that here originally, because it was in the draft, but now there are 50 pages in the printed form - with comments, good points can easily drown in all the text. But if we in SV are to draw out one sentence out of this vast setting that really warms our hearts, then it's the following: ‘The Committee will underline’ NB! – a single committee – ‘that the value of the future depends on today’s education system —’;» And then the main point is, «from kindergartens, through school and higher education, to lifelong vocational learning.» So a unanimous committee today concludes that kindergartens are important for the future’s value creation – hurrah! SV has, I was saying for generations, been champions to include kindergartens in the concept of education, in the concept of value creation. It was long ridiculed, now it's in place. The NHO had a few weeks ago an overview of what we in Norway had wasted money on, and kindergartens were one of those things. At least they didn't include them in the value creation, but fortunately, it's now a total increase. The so-called climate skeptics have managed to clear up a lot of space in the last few months' climate debate. They talk a large professional majority in the middle, and have a rather relaxed relationship with the facts in the field. In the field of education, many of us now think that we have a somewhat similar phenomenon -- we've already been through it in the debate -- we've got some knowledge creators, we're going to say educational creators, who say, is it so careful then, this with knowledge, this with theory? They seem to think that professional experts and trade unions – representatives of both working and social life – are in a bit of a mood when they say that people with formal competence and education, from a professional letter and uphill, are likely to be in the future. Can we take a little check-up in this debate? In what occupations in the future will training with professional competence and professional qualifications not be appropriate? I'm anxious to wait for the answer. I really want to warn against these educational creators. I am pleased that we have a government, a magnificence and not least business organisations that, in words and actions, mark a distance from such attitudes. I think parts of Right's comments, and partly of the Advance Party, represent such educational creators. No, let's keep up with the offensive starting point: the vast majority of us people both want to and can educate us and accept learning. That's why it's so nice that so much good is going on. This is not internal information; it is only to follow the websites of the Ministry of Knowledge. Everything says, we're in the middle of a homework offer in high school from the fall, and it's in the right direction. We give high, new attention to high school — the same thing happens in high school — which not least equates practice and theory. There we have had an asymmetry, thanks to Kristin Clamet when she was the Council of State. We have a completely new understanding of society as the learning arena, and we highlight the importance of the vocational school. I am a very warm follower of the so-called SAK – collaboration, work sharing and concentration. We are offensive in relation to the educational wave that meets us, and not least we are betting on adult learning in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e608	I am not going to ask the representative where SV is in relation to previous promises regarding hot food in school – I could be tempted to do so too. In order for students to have a good learning outcomes in school, the entire committee agrees that the teacher's competence is one of the most important things for students' learning. Continuing training for teachers is therefore of great importance, but it is a problem that today’s funding for continuing training is actually so expensive that many municipalities simply do not have the opportunity to participate in that offer. The majority are very positive that a lasting offer of this continuing training has now been put in place, which the Progress Party naturally joins. The question is, why does the majority not agree with the comments in the vote? There we ask the Government to review the guidelines for the free purchase of teachers, so that more people can participate in the offer? Today, the municipalities actually have to cover 40 pst. of the cost of taking this training and it represents a formidable amount per person. teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e617	This is a typical question that goes on the relationship between position and opposition, and the relationship between position and government. So we know and have been given clear signals several times that our government is very concerned about this. KS is very busy with that. This is less about the issue of changing guidelines, etc., but it is a lot about economics, and it is probably very much about municipal and county economics. This government is very concerned that it should be strengthened – fortunately to a far greater extent than previous civil governments have been concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e622	First, I would just like to comment that it is strange that the Right's proposal for more people to carry out a knowledge cycle is perceived as a denial of knowledge. But we can do that in a later debate. The reason why I asked for a reply is that I have read in the paper that Aksel Hagen, together with the head of Socialist Youth, stands out and is pleased that a large number of people have agreed that ‘a model is now to be explored in which companies and public institutions have to pay a larger grant in a large learning pot’. Thus, instead of stimulating measures to attract more apprentices, enterprises will now be burdened by business. So this is going to be a multiple of large numbers. I have neither seen this in the message nor heard it in the debate, so I wonder if the representative Hagen can clarify it for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e629	I have not read it in the message either, but I have read the notice in VG. It was a thought from the leader of Socialist Youth – it could probably be an interesting thought. It is one of several ideas and ideas that will surely emerge in terms of what we very warmly support – that we are now getting a good investigation into how to meet the need that everyone agrees on: if we are to get a good education for the profession, the young people must get out of the school room. Then we have to somehow get it into place. The legal obligation that we as school owners have to fulfil towards these young people, if any, challenges the principal school owner, not the business community, because it is the school owner who is responsible in the event. Let's get a good investigation work – we get it – and then we take the debate when it's there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e634	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e637	«Once upon a time in 1999, little Per started at school. He was in a good mood and liked to learn. 10 years later, however, he felt that everything was boring. Especially Norwegian. At high school, all subjects were fun. Until he got to high school. The youth school was like a magnet that sucked the teacher's joy out of little Per." This is a direct quote from a school-style student in today’s high school — a student who struggled with Norwegian spelling, and thus also with English spelling, social writing, natural sciences, etc., and thus had low confidence in high school. Little Per could have been one of the ones that had landed on the drop-off statistics. Fortunately, he found something of interest in high school. He began his professional career. That he found something he masters, at the same time as he marines writes that he really likes to learn, is perhaps what has kept him in place in the classroom sail if the spelling hasn't improved particularly. The drop-out in high school is one of the biggest challenges we face. Norway is one of the OECD countries where education is one of the most important premises in order to be able to participate in the labour market and ensure economic seaworthiness. We have neither human nor financial advice to approx. one third of the future workforce does not complete secondary school. St.meld. No 44 and its messages provide a good overview of the challenges at school today and what the Government believes must be done to counter non-response. Early efforts are important and cannot be repeated often enough. We must not assume that there should be special education to describe it as an early effort. The school and the education shall not be adapted to the average level. Different teaching methods that allow all students to learn differently must be used in all classrooms. There must be enough time and space for learning. Maybe little Per could have gotten better in spelling if he had got a little extra attention on this particular challenge. Perhaps the job could have been done by the usual teacher who does not have special training. Maybe Per had done with a little bit of extra help for a period of time, and so without being defined as a single decision. There is no doubt that the teacher is of great importance to students' motivation and development of learning skills. Being ‘seen’, being met with a positive expectation and feeling that a person is getting help and support in the learning situation may be the most important thing. That is why I am pleased that future teacher training is now placing greater emphasis on pedagogics and learning skills. The subject of pedagogics, which means teaching and teaching, is once again raised and underlines the importance of the teacher being the professional pedagogist with knowledge of how to teach in order to teach children. It's now 13 years since the 6th grade for the first time in Norwegian school. In fact, the first coal with six-year-olds is to be graduated first this spring. This means that we haven't seen the first edition of how a 13-year-old race has influenced the level of knowledge of the leaving students. In addition, the Knowledge promise has been introduced in the middle of this school. One might say very well about the promise of knowledge, but that it has laid the basis for a more varied and practical initial training, a doubt might be said. The school style of Little Per shows that there are major challenges — not least in high school. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has listened to the Centre Party and will devote much more attention to secondary school in the future. Nevertheless, too many drop out of school now — before they finish school. We then have to make early efforts, a better high school, but also ask ourselves how many years there are going to be. If we look at Finland, they have better professional payoffs than Norwegian school if they have nine-year-old school. I guess Finland has a hard time, but it's not just the number of years that are important for professional levels. On the contrary, there is no research to support claims that several hours or school years in themselves promote better learning outcomes. The centre part is occupied by the contents of the school. For several years we have been calling for a more practical school, for professional subjects and for vocational training. I am therefore very pleased that we are now finally focusing on the practical possibilities. In our eagerness to raise the level of professional knowledge, we have sunk to the book. Most people seem to think that just reading in the book, we're getting wise. That's probably a lot of truth in many ways, but a good book doesn't preclude the joy of creating something with our own hands or the understanding we get by doing it. It's the head and the hand together that gives development. That's what we're talking about now! That's what the Center Party has been doing for a long time. We want all students to exit for both their creative and practical – as well as logistical sides. The centre party believes that the experiments with a new profession are a step in the right direction. The fact that schools all over the country show such an interest in participating in the experiment means that there is an enormous craving for more practical training at the youth level. Only in Oppland have 35 of the county's 43 secondary schools applied to participate in the experiment. Only four schools came in this round. I look forward to the experience of the experimental schools, and to all schools getting this subject. When lack of motivation for learning is one of the main causes of non-response, it is necessary to organise the training so that all students experience mastery. Providing students with the opportunity to choose practical subjects and to use their practical skills will help build a sense of sea life and mastery among students. It will in turn be motivating in other subjects. It is not about lowering the ambitions of basic subjects such as Norwegian, mathematics and English, but rather about facilitating better learning outcomes for both practitioners and academics. Practical approaches in the community are important throughout the school cycle. I have since I started here in Stortinget – already during the debate on the throne – highlighted both the secondary school, the professional and the vocational schools. The centre party believes – like the Landsförbund of the Construction Industry – that we should have high demands for theory in the professional fields as well. But we are committed to getting the right theory and that the curricula provide room for both professional and programme subjects. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge is already carrying out such a review. Assessment of the central examination scheme in the common English language is also considered. And that's good. Through the work on this message, I have supported the Right Party's proposal for what they call a professional lift. They propose inter alia: own curricula for the professions. That's a little strange because we have approx. 260 curriculums for the profession already today. In the case of proposals for letters of practice as a national scheme, all counties were invited to offer it two years ago. Today it is most common to go two years to school and two years to learn. The Policy Letter provides an opportunity to move straight into a learning business and achieve lower-level skills after two years. However, the positive thing is that most of these candidates continue to be full-lettered. It demonstrates once again the importance of the training course arrangements in order to achieve the learning objectives and that there is an achievable opportunity for the vast majority of people. Then the party proposes the right alternative training courses in the company. It is also possible after today’s training law. And as far as the technical school proposals are concerned, they are already recognised as alternative higher education. It has also been suggested that those who complete a two - year vocational schooling and meet the requirements of Norwegian are given study competence. It's a mystery to me that the Right Party is getting away with an apparent investment in the professions. The measures they promote are largely measures already undertaken or in the process of implementation by the Government. And there's no secret either. That this happens, I ask questions about whether our general knowledge of the professional courses is good enough. Unfortunately, I think we've been most concerned with the academic route of education. I believe it is a failed statement not to expect most of those who choose a professional course of study to complete a common subject such as Norwegian, English, math and natural sciences. Swäl Per participates in these hours. The ears and the ability to acquire knowledge isn't something we're going through with the sails about a trip in double consonants and capital letters. In addition to the common subjects, they shall have the professional theories of programmes. One does not increase the status of professional subjects by setting lower requirements and expectations for students to go there. Lower expectations mean that we build up further under the profession as a course of study you choose if you are not so good at school. It is unwise at a time when we need more knowledge and expertise also in these fields, not least on climate and environmental challenges, on the health and care of the future, on technology and innovation. I would like to have houses that stand up and right in the future as well. It's said that not all have the same assumptions for theory. That does not mean, however, that we should not have expectations! Positive strengthening, or positive expectations, makes us often stretch a little longer than we thought was possible sea level. I am sure that several of us who are wholesale representatives now also have experience with this. We didn't think we should do it, but we did it. There's a lot of Pers in Norwegian school. Many people find it difficult to pass through high-requirements high-level high-level high-level theoretical knowledge. Many of those Pers drop out of high school. I am therefore extremely pleased to be a representative with a government that takes this into account, which is not the most concerned with new reforms, but which initiates work on a turn that focuses on practices like the learning arena, in combination with theory, from primary school to higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e694	The representative Tingelstad Wøien told a touching story about Per and how incredibly important it is with early efforts, more actions earlier, etc. But there's no shortage of fancy words that's the challenge in school. There is a lack of great action. My question to the representative of Tingelstad Wøien will therefore be: Can the representative point to three concrete actions from the Government of the message Education Line that just ensures the early efforts in high school, which she talks about so nicely in her post?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e701	I think I could imagine a little irony in the representative Hanekamhaug saying in terms of a 'rousing story'. I want the representative Hanekamhaug to be aware that this is an actual story and not something I have found on the sea. When it comes to early efforts, there is something the Government is actively working on. What I was most concerned about here now was the practical arrangements, not least in high school, where practical work is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e708	No state has more to do with non-response than Finnmark. Every third student has to leave home, and the risk of non-response increases dramatically with it. The municipality of Båtsfjord has tried to operate high school in close cooperation with high school, and the experiment must be described as a major success. They have had a less radical decline because more students can live at home and more competent and motivated teachers, which has benefited the entire schooling. The red-green government has now stopped the experiment, despite the fact that an overall municipal government, including the red-green parties, has wanted the school offer to be continued. How can the representative of the Central Party defend such a district enemy school policy, which will mean that more students in Båtsfjord now have to leave home, with a great risk of many falling away?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e719	Now I have to say that I do not know what the representative Aspaker here describes. In relation to the situation of the people living away, we are aware that there is a very large disintegration among those who live away. There are also very many not only attempts, but also good, lasting actions in the counties around, both follow-up service, their own mentoring systems, host families, etc. Just the example you're referring to is something I have to get back to and answer to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e729	There are some things that we in the center have come together, even though we have had different partners on government teams, and it has, among other things. have been to the higher education institutions. The National Colleges are an important actor with the eyes of the Christian People's Party, also for educational purposes, because you can see that students over a year at the National College get a bigger, wider horizon, maybe choose different types of subjects than they have done and come out as strengthened both after that year and after the total education. That's why it's a little bit surprising that people's colleges are not mentioned with one word in the message Education Line. I also see that the government parties do not go into the note about which the Christian People's Party and other parties stand together, where we actually say something about the importance of higher education. Does that mean that the Center Party is now leaving the commitment they have previously had to higher education? Have they been left out of the Education Line by an incubator, or is it even worse, is it conscious?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e738	I think we agree that the primary schools are still important. I don't know why there wasn't anything standing about primary schools, but I guess I don't really think there's anyone looking down on that school at all. I think we're still going to stand together in the center of strengthening colleges. We see that it has a huge gain for many students, who are just saying, as Eriksen's representative here does, that the national colleges strengthen the possibilities and self-confidence of the individual student. I can assure the representative, Eriksen, that I will continue to contribute to the follow-up of the folk high school in the red-green fraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e746	Oil and fish have provided the basis for the welfare country that Norway is today. But our largest resource is not in the sea. It's ashore. It's in cities, towns and alleys. There we find a resource that is difficult to measure in money – the individual human being and the knowledge you have. It is a resource for the future and therefore education must also be a fundamental field of action. We need to ensure that all stages of the education line — from primary to higher education — have the quality necessary to provide knowledge. I feel that this message is an attempt to do so. The government is now fighting against the dropout as job number one. It's really time after the government has had this a little bit too far down on the list in the last five years. The number of students who do not complete secondary school is worrying. Unfortunately, we again find many of the people who fall out of school, in other statistics later related to social assistance, unemployment and disability. It is therefore essential to take urgent action to contribute to the completion of more secondary schools. My experience after traveling around quite a lot is that there are many good local measures in schools to reverse this trend. We need to make much more use of the good examples to reverse that trend. The reality is that the government has now had several hours as the only tool to solve everything. Instead of investing in a better high school, the fight against dropout and bullying, stronger bets on even better teachers, the money and bets in Norwegian school have gone to hours, despite the fact that there is no evidence that several hours provide better students. I have also previously praised the State Council of Halvorsen for the fact that the Government is now finally in favour of a larger element of youth practice and expressed the hope that this would mean a change of course in the government's school policy. However, my concern is whether it will be possible to invest financially in this as well. A real investment in high school must also mean an economic boost. The situation of high school is that there has been little or no research at this stage. Education is for theorizing; there are major challenges to trouble and unrest, and many teachers are horrified at the daily work at this stage. There's reason to think that this is propagating and leading to a dramatic high rate of non-response even in higher education. Young school must be a master's arena for children and young people. When students are not involved in the theory, they must be offered a more practical school day. That's why I and the Christian People's Party mean, among other things. the reintroduction of the electoral professions and the need for a much stronger focus on quality development in secondary education. I want to refer to a Nordic writer, Astrid Lindgren, and the character Pippi, who says, "I've never tried that before, so I'm sure I can do that." I want more students to be able to say like her. The majority of the Committee suggests that children of parents with higher education are more likely to complete upper secondary education than those with parents with primary education. However, I disagree that this one-sided is the school's task of balancing. It underestimates the crucial role of parents in children’s learning and may also make the distance between home and school greater than it should be. I believe that the message lacks a central element, and that is the mobilisation of the parents. All parents can play an active and central role in children’s learning, and we need to focus even more on developing good home-school cooperation and empowering all parents to support, motivate and encourage their children. The social differences identified show just how important it is to raise awareness of the role of home workers both at school and at parents. Empowering all parents and knowledge of the benefits of good home-school cooperation could lead to a greater degree of social cohesion. In the Communication, the Government also advocates that young people who have already dropped out of education be followed up better than today. It is positive, but I have to say that I was worried when I heard the response of the representative Truls Wickholm to my reply. If you're between the age of 19 and 24 today and have used up your right, no one is obliged to take you in to be able to get high school. It's a right that's missing for a large group of students. It's so crucial that you get a place when you're between 19 and 24 years old. LO's been really ready for that. Most recently, the Vice-Chairman of the LO, Solbakken, has gone out and said that he is surprised that the Government does not support the proposal that is on the table today from the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we would have just addressed the challenge facing the 19-24-year-olds. If they don't listen to us, then maybe they could listen to LO. Unfortunately, the message mentions to a small extent private schools, colleges and colleges. I see it as perfectly natural that these educational institutions are included in a communication on the education line in the same way as the public. These institutions are an invaluable resource that needs to be exploited and provided with equivalent framework conditions. I believe that the private schools need to be integrated into the systems that are now being set up, for example. in the case of hosting agreements for pupils up the system, different forms of cooperation in the education system and the right to adult training. It's amazing that the government has chosen not to mention the public schools in a message that is said to be about the whole education system. I know that the department has been involved in this, and we have made a note in the committee about the important role of public schools in a education line. However, the government parties would not be on the note, nor in the notice would the public schools be mentioned in one word. We believe that public schools are an important part of our education system, and I am justified in a reply to Tingelstad Wøien why I mean it. An expected youth wave into higher education and an increased focus on adult learning create the need for more higher education places. These are very positive results. At 75 pst. in a new study is satisfied with study quality, is very good. This may indicate that the quality reform is on track and provides results. However, I am more excited about how future studies will be carried out through the sharp increase in the number of places of study that will now be available. We're positive for enlargement, but it's essential that this doesn't go beyond quality. The question is whether the UH sector is able to accept such an increase, for example: related to construction, premises and teaching staff. If the funding of the UH sector is not increased, I'm afraid the figures in a few years will look completely different than they do today. I also believe that private universities will be able to remedy this. Private higher education institutions contribute to ensuring national diversity — diversity — in higher education, research, dissemination and innovation. A total of 10-12 pst is currently being trained. by all Norwegian students at private colleges. For some disciplines, the percentage is much higher. This percentage should be maintained at least in the coming years. If we're to succeed in accepting the youth wave, we all need to, and then we may need to rethink whether the basic funding for private colleges needs to be increased. Let me take another writer, Ibsen, who has been quoted earlier. I'm relieved for a good Ibsen-quote today. I want to say that I feel quite rich when I come up with the quote, because the quote is: «Eternal is only owned by the lost thing». From the opposition in the Committee there have been concrete proposals for this communication and for many communications that we have dealt with over the period of red-green governance. But many of these proposals have been rejected in cash by the majority. The case is the compromise of the Government. The proposals from the opposition are going to be a little awkward, because we have something going on," said Aksel Hagen. That's how a majority government can choose to work, but if the goal is to launch a wide-ranging debate on education in our nation to get some forward-looking visions about where to go, a majority government might not have enough with itself. "For ever only the lost is owned." I know myself rich. I take up the suggestions in the setting that the Christian People's Party has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e780	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e785	The representative, Eriksen, uses much of his contribution to talk about social cohesion at school and school-home cooperation. But in a note, the Christian People's Party says that they disagree that the school must compensate for different social backgrounds of the students. They also believe that awareness of the role of home towards school is important and that good cooperation between home and school could lead to a greater degree of social cohesion. It's great that the representative Eriksen has a commitment to the school-home collaboration. However, I have problems seeing that the home itself should be able to prevent social differences. Can the representative elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e790	Yes, I can. There's been incredibly little research on this, but there's something there. Professor Thomas Nordahl has published a book called «Home and School» where he comes across a lot of criticism that the Norwegian political system has said over 30 years that it must be the school's task to address the social difference reproduced in the next generation. He says on the contrary that we are totally dependent on getting our homes on the road in order to cope with social cohesion. So for every time the political environment says – and it continues with the red-green – that all the measures to balance this need to be put into school, he says we're wrong. He says that what we have to do is put in action so that we involve homes in a completely different way from what Norwegian school is doing today. You can be the world's best educator, but if your parents work against home learning, you don't get a good learning. There's a fundamental difference that I hope the Christian People's Party may soon come through with, even here in this environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e795	I'm not going to quote Ibsen. I'm going to quote Margaret Thatcher, who is known for the statement: "There is no such thing as society." She rejects the existence of a society, it's the individuals that are defined. That's what happened when I heard the representative Dagrun Eriksen's reply to the Workers' Party. The keyword for how many people do it at school and who fall from it is, of course, a demonstrable social background. It's directly wrong what Eriksen says, that there's not much research on it. It's an eye-catching, even to the Christian People's Party to be, individualistic view of what it is that defines a society. Then no one disagrees with the goal of a good school-home collaboration. But my question is: does the Christian People's Party really think that social cohesion should not be a task for the institution where all social groups and groups meet, where the understanding of democracy of children is built, and where knowledge is to be shared? It makes me wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e804	There is a lot of statistics on social cohesion. But there's little research on how to actually turn it around. Over 30 years, the political environment has only taken action on the part of the school. The Christian People's Party believes that school can be a social balancing factor. It can be read in the setting of the big message on social cohesion in school, where we say very carefully what we think about it. But it's wrong to think that this can be solved by the school alone; you have to connect a connection to the home. I don't think you take seriously how important it is to equip your homes, have faith in your homes and get them involved in helping to balance the social differences. Because we have not been able to put all the measures into Norwegian school. We have to get the homes on the track. I agree that there is a statistic that shows that today we reproduce differences, but those who have researched it a little bit, say it doesn't have to be that way. [[President clubs]] Something can be done, but action must also be taken on... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e811	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e814	Truls Wickholm began his speech by quoting from an old working party resolution, and it was pleasant reading. The foundation of the Norwegian common school, the idea that the farmer's son, the son of the housekeeper and the daughter of the craftsman should sit on the same bench, was laid by the left-hand man Johannes Steen when he introduced what became the common public schools in Norway. It's a married child of the Left, and we recognize the fun. Otherwise, the rapporteur underlined the good cooperation in the committee, which I find a little special if you read the Committee's comments. In this case there is also a document 8 proposal from the Left, which we thought should be included in the virtue that the Council of State has stood on this pulpit and said that she would like to have in the case of high school drop-outs, and that all ideas are received with thanks. I have actually also seen the response of the Council of State to the Committee as very positive to very many of the proposals. It was a great wonder when there was nothing worth in committee and in government parties. Here everything was kind of from the point of view, and there was no room for change or good ideas from anyone else. Nor was it possible to create a form of work that made the proposals come forward, which means that both the government parties and the opposition had to present cases in the hall. I guess it's a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a The challenge we are facing in terms of Education-Norway requires an absolute effort from everyone, and it requires a political effort that makes broad compromises. It has been said here in the pulpit that you want less ideology. I am concerned that the school system and our education system do not at least need less policy, and it is actually so that the vast majority of major reforms, so to speak, all major reforms in the education field in Norway, have had a very large and broad majority here in the Chamber. It also makes them much stronger when they are to be implemented. Then I just have to say that if you sit down and analyze the Norwegian society and look at the big challenges we're facing, knowledge is the answer to everyone. We're facing an economy where we've been leaning on an oil fortune for many, many years, and where we've built up a wealth level based on it. If we are to survive when the oil no longer becomes so important, and when it ends, we must maintain our level of prosperity with wise heads. It's just wise heads with good ideas and good knowledge that can be able to build on our well-being. We are facing a difficult climate challenge, which means that our society needs to change from scratch in terms of organisation. If we are to cope both with the climate challenge and maintain our well-being and the way in which we expect to live, it requires great technological leaps, a lot of knowledge and a lot of research. If we are to renew our welfare state, if we are to ensure that the welfare state in which we are all happy will survive in the future, it is through increased use of knowledge, new solutions and innovation that we are able to meet that challenge. If we're going to be able to create jobs for the future that we can live with, we're going to do it by investing in knowledge, investing in research and investing in business ventures. That means that all of our major societal challenges are solved with knowledge. It's great to have a big message where we can see the whole race together, sail if I don't think it's bragging about good policy solutions. But if one has been turned off when it comes to making good proposals, I will go through a little of what the Left has proposed through its proposal: We have today a system of special education, which has been a public investigation, but which, to put it at the head, is designed as a very bureaucratic system in which we use all the skilled professionals to process paper, while we often use unskilled assistants to help the children. We should have seen a lot more about the Finnish system and other systems where we focus on moving the good professionals closer to the children, and we should probably not be so concerned about the bureaucracy, but try to get a plan for how to get more specialised educators out into Norwegian school, into Norwegian school everyday – away from writing desks that make them see only students in the form of application papers, and over to help students in their everyday lives. It's been discussed here how to smooth out social differences. What we have research on, what we know about it, is that to do something with the family, it's much more effective to do something with the teacher. Good teachers are much more socially equal than all other indicators that you can go in and change. There's nothing that balances the social differences in a class as much as a good teacher. That's why the Left believes that we should have invested in the further education system to make teachers even better at doing their job, and we should have immediately admitted that we need a five-year teacher education to get the quality we want in school. In addition, we believe that we need to have a review of the school compared to the bureaucratic one. A lot of teachers report back to us that their everyday lives are marked by many bureaucratic routines, and that they would rather spend time on the students. We also believe that the school had benefited from bringing in other professional groups, who have the opportunity to put pedagogics into their professional skills, and that it could have been a good input to make the school better, bring it closer to the profession, and perhaps get a more varied schooling. If you're going to get a good follow-up of students who are struggling with not only the professional, but with all the other things that are tiring about being a teenager, and that are tiring about being a youth in general, it's important to bet on the school health service. Having child protection, a school health service and a school that works together are important to help young people who are facing problems in life other than what is just in the Norwegian or math book. So I'm worried about the situation in higher education. We know that there is now a great wave of young people entering higher education, while we see that there is not exactly a queue when it comes to scientific qualifications to get a good education from those who are going into higher education. That is why we have also made proposals to create a stepping-up plan in relation to scientific positions to ensure that we are able to achieve the highest level of education and training systems. I am also amazed that the Left and Christian People's Party does not receive any more support in terms of the right to secondary school. We now actually have a 13-year-old school run. I see no reason for the last three years to be treated in a different way when it comes to having a right to education, which I think everyone should have. Then I will raise something that the Progress Party has also promised, namely that we had earned a lot as a country, and as a country of education, to make it easier to be a foreign student. I shouldn't say that sending them abroad is a very cheap way to produce students, but I think we could have won a lot of professionally, and we could have won a lot in relation to exciting developments by having more students travel abroad. And the freshman year is then a system that would have led many more people to see it economically possible to do that, and that you didn't have to have a rich mom and dad to try to study abroad. Then it is that the Left does not promote proposal No. 28, but we are promoting proposals Nos. 29–34, which is distributed in the hall. Otherwise, we support the proposals for which we are co-sponsors. Ibsen should be quoted in our committee. What ran into my mind today was that the lack of cooperation, the inability to listen to what the opposition is saying, really not because we're just making bad suggestions, I think it also has a little bit of will to do. To this Ibsen has said, Will, it is he who counts, the will frees or traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e847	The President then perceived that all proposals, other than proposal No. Twenty-eight, it's recorded. So the representative, Trine Skei Grande, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e852	I don't doubt Left's commitment to getting down the dropout in high school, but when I read the setting, I'm a little bit in doubt if they see how complex the picture really is. For example, they write. that the dropout is particularly high among ‘migrant youth’ — and there is a concept that does not distinguish between young people who have migrated themselves and young people who are children of immigrants. This is relatively unfortunate, as it suggests that children of immigrants have a much higher degree of completion than children who have migrated to Norway themselves. The challenges are different. Is it that way that left doesn't know that there's a statistical difference here, or do they just think it's not that careful to specify it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e857	I thought that immigrant youth was young people who had migrated, and not that it lasts for generations to come back. We thought that the term was accurate, and now I hope I've done it more precisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e862	There is a debate in the Chamber today, and there has been a debate in public space for a few weeks on what Right really means by vocational training. The right feels misunderstood, and that's why the Right is standing alone about his remark on this. The left has provided a very interesting note in this way, on page 31. I quote: ‘This member will, on a general basis, warn against a thought that devalues theories in today’s professional courses of study. It is, in the opinion of this member, not necessarily the theory itself that is the problem — rather it is about how the theory is structured.’ My question is: is this a direct comment on the Right proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e872	You can read that as you like, but our point is that today's 'fans' in high school are so wide that it's hard for teachers to align the theory subjects with the subject that triggers the burning commitment of each student. It is clear that it is easy to teach history – I know so – for example. goldsmiths or hairdressers, i.e. to relate the subject to their profession. The problem is when you're sitting with both goldsmiths and hairdressers in the same classroom. So how are you going to set up the history to make it extra exciting for that group? That's what we brought up here. Maybe that means that you have to divide classes into some subjects, maybe that means that you have to organize it in other ways. We think it's possible to convey theory in an exciting way also to people who have a different angle of incidence than that they're going to be historians.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e879	It's kind of interesting when the Left uses most of its post to present it as a victim of a kind of majority arrogance. I want to look at proposal No. 28, from the Left: The Government asks the government to step up its efforts to combat school dropout based on the following elements: specialist educators, more and better advisers, teacher competence, vocational reform, less bureaucracy in school, other professional groups, practical subjects, outsourcing, transparency and screening and foreign languages – i.e. themes that are throughout the message. Actually, this Communication is a Communication that the Government should step up efforts to combat school dropouts and create a better education system in Norway. You have to assume some responsibility yourself when you make Document 8 proposals that go right into a message that has already been delivered. The fact that the Storting should go separately into all the proposals from the Left may seem to me to be a little much to be expected, and then you should not take the sacrifice role that the Left is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e886	I wonder if the President too does not believe that when you make proposals, that is something you have to deal with in particular. I expect that when a proposal is made, it will be dealt with seriously if it has been sent to a committee and is to be dealt with there. Whether the Government agrees or not, the government parties may show at the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e891	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e894	This is a big message and a big debate on the relationship between the workline and the education line; it's not all we do in Norwegian education or school policy. And that's a very significant and important context, which I'm glad the whole Biggest agrees on. What we can achieve through the filling of skills and a good education system is that people can have a long life as participants in the working life, and it's the most effective thing to prevent us from getting the situation that many who could make an excellent contribution to society, and who themselves would enjoy a meaningful job, are on different social security schemes. If we are to remind each other of some facts, it is that the future labour market will have a great need for more people to complete secondary education and for many to take a letter, but there will be little room for those who only have basic education. We have a significant disqualification from secondary education – 30 pst. – and it has been stable for 15 years. We have an enormous amount to pick up a much more coordinated effort to prevent apostasy. It is really surprising that it has not been on top of the national political agenda for all these 15 years. We just have things to pick up to get it to. We save money – between 5 and 9 billion dollars per person. 1 year coal if we reduce the decay by 10 pst. We're increasing the chance for the individual to succeed. Many people in this debate have argued that it is human capital – people – that is Norway’s most important asset, rather than oil. Yet, there are a terrible number of people who still walk around and think that it is who really makes us a rich country. It's not. When between 70 and 80 pst. of our national wealth are people, so it says something about how crucial it is for us to succeed as a country – including in solving environmental problems – to use the competences we have. It's much more crucial than getting the last drop of oil up from the bottom of the ocean, because our oil wealth is at the bottom of 10 pst. I want to invite all those who are concerned with knowledge, and who are now sitting in this room, to be very observant in the public debate on how to use the economic space in the future. Indeed, many outside this committee – and other than those who are now taking part in this debate – believe that the real value creation and the most profitable thing we can invest in is real estate. The more steel, concrete and asphalt, the more profitable. It's totally wrong! So all the tricks to trick steel, concrete and asphalt at the front of the queue in the fight for the crowns must be rejected by all those who are engaged in school and education, because it will have to go at the expense of investment in human capital. We have taken initiatives towards the states to coordinate efforts to reduce school dropouts. There's a lot of good going on around in many counties, and we have to coordinate that effort. In addition, I have reviewed the curricula for higher education, because many have believed that curricula themselves limit the possibility of vocational theory in the professions. We need to adjust the curriculum, but it is not in the curriculum that the challenge lies first and foremost. We need to make the professions more relevant and the common professions more relevant. That's the full possibility within what's being adjusted the curriculum. It's very important that we get 'driving' on it. It's very important what the message says about the possibility of hospitation, the possibility of organizing, the possibility for those who are going to teach mathematics to see the inside of a plumbing company -- it's incredibly important to organize mathematics like that. We have to make sure that this signal is clear from this school year – that from the fall the curriculum is adjusted – so that it is in place. Then do not start disqualification in secondary education. It doesn't start in high school either. But I have announced my own message about high school, because it is quite obvious that there is a tremendous potential for development, so that more students will experience that the education they receive is relevant, and that they will gain good knowledge. Finally, Adult training. There are too many adults who have had too little part in the educational goods. I'm very happy that basic skills in the workplace are in demand, and that many people want to participate in it. We need more opportunities for adults to fill in their skills – in the rest of their potential professional life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e916	Both the statements of the Council of State, the bigotry, the comments of the majority and the public debate focus on those from whom the theory is being challenged. That's probably a right focus. But I feel that sometimes we forget the theorists – those who are not challenged in today's school. A training law on which there is a broad consensus in this room permits the right to higher-level training once evidence has been provided that the objectives of competence have been achieved for the level at which they are at a purely age level. In practice, this is the case – which the Progress Party has tried to point out in the comments – that there are only a few places in the country where this can be done – i.e. the theoretically strong students are actually given the opportunity to take higher-level courses. Is the Council of State committed to giving more people this opportunity, and what will the Council of State do to achieve that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e924	Yes, I am concerned that we should be able to develop what is the potential of all students and students. And we have a very clear challenge here, that many of those who don't complete advanced education have a potential that they can't take out. But there are also, as the representative Lien is involved, of course, those who need greater theoretical challenges in a wider race. This is why there is so much cooperation between higher education and higher education. In practice, it is necessary to ensure that there are actually more places, but we are concerned about a thinking here that should be able to be adapted according to the possibilities and potentials that each individual has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e929	In the Swedish school action programme 2005-2009, they pointed to how they were to solve one of the most important tasks at school, namely that those leaving school without basic skills in reading and writing should be reduced to a minimum. But after five years in government and three government councils in this area, the situation has deteriorated. 20 pst. is currently based on higher education without being able to read and write enough to function in business. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Which of the SV's previous policy instruments and actions have they now changed to be able to resolve the situation this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e938	It is not true that this is a situation that has deteriorated due to measures taken during that period, 2005–09. What's an important starting point when you're doing education is that changes take time. I am absolutely sure that the focus we now have, for example. in relation to early interventions, in relation to focusing on basic skills – e.g. identify the gaps in secondary school, or at the start of high school, in Norwegian, math, follow-up measures for each student, are effective measures. So what's the big challenge is to be able to implement with force the actions that we know work, and we know that close follow-up, quick mapping, while at the same time expecting you to get far, works.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e945	Apostasy is one of the most serious problems in society. The government parties will now assess the legal right to a place of study, despite the fact that a joint Karlsen committee has stated that this cannot be done. Can the Council of State explain why the Government will waste time and money investigating a proposal rejected by the Karlsen Committee? What the Karlsen Committee is proposing, on the other hand, is a new social contract between stakeholders to get more apprenticeships. Can the Council of State today decide whether a rapid initiative from the State is being taken to set up such a social contract? And do the Council of State agree that the cooperation line will be more fruitful than the confrontational line in the face of a working life that now needs to be motivated to receive more apprentices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e952	What we're dealing with is how we're going to follow up the question of legislating the right to an apprenticeship place. It is not the same as legalizing a private business obligation to offer an apprenticeship. So a cooperation between private business and education authorities is the voluntary and social contract that is really very well developed in Norway in relation to very many other countries – and the decisive instrument. How to achieve a right to an apprenticeship is, of course, an instrument that we want to implement because it is so crucial for each individual student whether or not to complete a course of education and to prevent apostasy. We are at full speed with the renewal and further development of the social contract we have between the parties. It is essential to obtain good vocational training and essential to bring down the dropout. And we're going to work to strengthen students' rights to get an apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e959	When I heard the statements of the Council of State on how important it was to get the most through high school, I must say I am amazed that the Government does not support the proposal that is from the Christian People's Party, to also get 19-24 year-olds in there, and that also supports the LO. But I also want to ask another question. The new labour market is expected and is now being proposed for the secondary school in this Communication, although it may already be in progress. I think it might have been more important to bet on more measures if you're going to get a practical-oriented high school. So I hope you see that in the message that comes. But I would nevertheless like to stress the importance of this subject being for everyone in order to help us get more practical subjects at school, and that this subject must not bind students to continue only in a professional direction, but that by taking a career in the field of study they can go on specializing in the field of study. Is that how the subject is going to be? I have still not received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e966	As the subject is now, in the experiment, this is a taste in vocational education as an alternative to 2nd foreign languages. That doesn't mean you can't go on in high school preparatory, but that means you have to take the second foreign language three years in high school, so you quickly get the opportunity to still have both ways open. Then it's important to stress that this is a subject that has to have competence goals, and in which there are to be grades, because it shouldn't be a place to park on the outside. But I agree that this is one thing to get to a more practical high school, and that it's not the only thing, or that we can say we're done with the job. I believe that the discussion on electoral subjects must be an important part of a message about high school, but not least that the way in which you work is practical in all upper secondary schools and make it more relevant, interesting and more related to what is the reality of youth is enormously important for motivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e973	It's about the school input factors, getting social cushioning and getting good results for the students. Research shows that bananas are not the most important, nor are there hours that are the most important. The most important thing is the teacher. So really, my question is quite open — whether the Council agrees with that kind of research, whether she agrees with my understanding of reality, that the main input to getting to a good school is a good teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e978	That's absolutely right. It is a good teacher who is crucial – a good, motivated teacher who has interest and respect for the student, who has many tools for use, who can have different learning strategies, which have professional competence, which is a clear class leader, who manages to get the rivers interested and motivated and at the same time demands that they also learn. It's the most important success factor. But let me say, it's limited how many of the kind of teachers you get for a banana. Also related to physical activity, nutrition — fruit, for example. In high school, as the Left seems so ridiculous, many high school teachers say to me is the only thing that some strangers actually eat in a day. It's actually also a small, important drive. But when that's said, it's the teacher -- the teacher's competence, commitment, possibilities for refilling -- that's the most important thing. That is why I am very pleased that we are now working on new teacher training from the fall of the year, and that we are going to make sure that we fill in further and further training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e985	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e988	For the first time, the Stortinget addresses a communication that provides a comprehensive basis for plans and actions to meet future skills needs. For Norway as too many countries, the starting point is that there is a need for more workers with higher education and fewer low formal education, that there is a need for closer cooperation between education and working life, and that better systems are needed to predict future labour market skills needs. Three aspects are particularly important. Firstly, we need to be prepared to accept the ever-increasing number of young people who want to take higher education and use the opportunity it gives us. Secondly, we need to have a varied education system with different options for education and training, and thirdly, we need to make sure that the provision of education is relevant to the labour market. Of course, the wave of education offers opportunities. We need to use the increase in youth schools in the future to further develop Norway as a knowledge nation on the basis that everyone should have equal rights to education. The need for skilled labour in the core welfare professions of society must be well met in all parts of the country. Through a diversity of quality education services, the basis must be ensured for the creation of value added and growth in the coming years. There are uncertainties related to the assessment of future needs for study places and how these should be distributed across different sectors. Therefore, in line with proposals in the Education Line, the Ministry continues its efforts to improve the knowledge base in order to ensure good national and regional coverage of different study offers. The size will be presented through the annual budgetary processes with an up-to-date knowledge base and new applicant figures so that study capacity can be continuously assessed for different sectors of the sector and in the light of the needs of the labour market. The government has already increased its capacity by more than 6,400 study places in 2010 when we compare with 2008. An expected impact adjustment of these will result in an overall increase of 9,400 places of study by 2014. Together with better use of available capacity and more students abroad, which is also a good thing in this context, study places from government must meet the educational wave. Vocational education is an important part of the educational diversity. With the exception of technical and maritime vocational schools, which are well incorporated, vocational education is a quite new part of the Norwegian education system. These schools deserve extra attention. I therefore greatly appreciate Storting's support and commitment to developing the vocational schools. Vocational education must be professionally relevant. Providers must therefore explain how they maintain their professional relevance and contact with the sector or industry in question when applying for a NOCUT authorisation for a new training offer. One of the exciting tasks we face in the field of vocational education is to develop general learning outcomes descriptions for vocational education and thus to seek a qualification framework for this part of our education. A proposal to amend the Law on Vocational Education and Training with a view to allowing the introduction of the Qualification Framework has been at the hearing, and I will present a proposal on this to the Stortinget this spring. The work of setting up a Joint Council for Vocational Education and Training is under way. There will be great help in the follow-up of these schools. I am also concerned that, from this year on, the transfer of the budgetary responsibility for the vocational training courses to the county councils is carried out in the best possible way for all parties. There is a need for more targeted and strategic thinking about cooperation between higher education institutions and society and the labour market. That is why we want all higher education institutions to develop long-term strategies for this. These strategies need to be developed in dialogue with the social partners and students. One of the measures proposed is therefore a cooperation forum, which we have called the Labour Council. The form must to a large extent be defined by the institutions themselves. In many cases, it may be most appropriate for groups of institutions to agree to establish such advice. This will also be in line with the focus on SAK, cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration, at universities and colleges. Hopefully, closer cooperation between education and working life will help to draw experiences across these different learning venues, so that education as a whole is better and more relevant. There is a need for greater use of practices such as the learning arena. Of course, the new measures need to be seen in the context of what is already being done with regard to cooperation with the labour market. Entrepreneurship will continue. It has been reinforced by the Action Plan on Entrepreneurship in Higher Education presented in 2009. The Professor II scheme and innovation programmes through the Research Council and Innovation Norway also contribute to strengthening cooperation between the university and higher education sectors and the labour market. I hope that the measures proposed in the Education Line will help Norway to further develop its flexible education system that provides all opportunities to increase their skills and to receive relevant training that the labour market needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1030	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1033	I really regret that I had prepared a question, because when the Council of State spoke for five minutes about this big message without mentioning the real subject, one should perhaps have addressed it. But I'm going to address the educational wave. What I tried to say in my post is that there are really four ways to meet it. Three of those ways are bad, and one of them, in my opinion, is good. Mode No 1 is to reduce research in the university and higher education sectors. Mode No 2 is to include fewer students than those who are qualified, i.e. not to allow increased student flexibility to be expressed in terms of increasing student mass. Mode No 3 is to go in the same trap that you went in in the 1990s: do nothing but take in more students. Mode No 4 is to let increased student flexibility be expressed through more students, but then it comes with more money. Which of these four options does the Council of State think makes the most sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1050	Firstly, there are limits to what you get to say in five minutes. I should have liked to talk about a real-time strategy. But to answer Tord Lien's questions about what's best to meet the educational wave, I think it's a combination of several of the alternatives the representatives mention. We've already started. This message that the Stortinge discusses today is the basis for the plans that need to be put forward every year. Here, we have the basis both for new places of study, for different professional training courses, for which society needs, and for actions that can enable us to be better prepared, both to facilitate new places of study and to enable the institutions to do so financially. We are fully funding new places of study, but I have received a lot of input into funding systems that we, of course, consider very carefully. The point is to keep the quality at top, even though we'll then facilitate new places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1055	I am very pleased that the Council of State took the time to describe the importance of the vocational schools. What surprises me is how the grants to the colleges are being awarded today. It's done after all the people in the state. This makes that e.g. Oslo gets a lot of grants, while they almost don't have students in colleges. The countries with the highest level of education are hit financially because they have a low population. Investment and operating costs vary on the different lines. These schools are also involved in the care of working life, so that working life has well-trained personnel, and are therefore important in many societies. What will the Council of State do to correct this bias to the schools, which she describes as important in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1062	I am very pleased that many share my view of the importance of the vocational schools and the need to give them greater attention. But it's not right, as the representative says, that the grant is distributed by population. For 2010, when this is transferred to the county municipalities, we have transferred to the county municipalities exactly the amounts we spent in the vocational schools in 2009. Now, together with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, we are assessing how the criteria should be in relation to the new income system. That assessment is not yet complete, but the Stortinget will have the municipal proposition coming in May. However, I am concerned — we have a challenge with the relationship between earmarking and general grants — that we should stimulate continuing good vocational school education and good offers in the places where it is today, and also stimulate the establishment of good vocational school services by new counties. So that's where I think we have a common interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1069	The Minister of Knowledge began by saying that the important thing about this communication is to have a training course that qualifies for work, so that as much as possible can be with the whole life of the labour market. For the Higher Education Councils, it is then important to cooperate with the labour market in setting up the right directions of study and the right courses of study. I think that's great. I have to admit that when I read the message, I was very happy when I read the section on working with the working life and a advice to get these offers good. So I got a little shock when I read the Business of the Day on 17 March, because it said that we have a case for treatment in the Stortinget to make the law that each school should have a council that will have a commitment to cooperate with the business community. I can't find that anywhere. How has the Council of State intended to impose a legal obligation on industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1076	That's not all that's in the papers that's a hundred percent right. I think both the representative and I have experienced that. This is not supposed to be legal. It was a misunderstanding on the part of the journalist. So this gives me the opportunity to fix it. I am very pleased that the representative and I fully agree that this is an important measure. I would like it to have been even more clearly mentioned in the Committee's position. But I have seen the Committee as unanimous in agreeing that there should be such advice at our higher education institutions, precisely so that business and their needs can meet the educational provision that institutions are to make. I don't want to force it on anyone, but we still hope that most people will establish such advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1081	I hope you also use the private when you're going to dimensionalize to accept the new youth wave. - Then I've been told. I also need to draw the lines to primary, secondary and secondary school. The Council of State is responsible for the training of teachers. They're a major factor in getting to a good school. Concerns have come to my mind that there is now quite a struggle going on to create teacher training as a purely vocational education, or whether you can keep it as a strong professional education. It's true that if you're going to be a good teacher, you have to be able to do it. But education and communication must also be possible, and more practice must be available. Does the Council of State think that we have a good balance in what we see the outlines of now, or does she agree with the Christian People's Party that we are at risk of reducing the profession in teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1088	I am very pleased that we have come as far as we have done to start the new teacher training. It starts now. I can tell the representative that I follow very closely in the many discussions that many different disciplines have about how education should be. I'm very sure it'll be a good professional training. That's what we need. We need teachers who are proud of their profession. One of the reasons I am sure of that is that I have the contact I have with the process. I am, too, because the new, expanded teaching profession, with learning skills, is part of building up under the professional development that teachers are going to have, plus that we put much more emphasis on the practice. There are two of the important steps we are taking in the new teacher training. Both of them are part of building pride and professionalism and partly of enabling teachers to also be good professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1095	The council said in its speech that she was very concerned about the quality of this education. I very much agree with her. She has also set up a group called the Action Space Committee, which has presented her report. One of the conclusions of their report is that we are now facing so much pressure with students. We have so much lag on scientific staff that we really don't – it says in the report – face a struggle to increase the quality of higher education, but to avoid reducing it. My question is, is it a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1101	I'm very concerned that we should keep quality, both in terms of new and old places of study. That means that we need to have the quality of the scientific staff, and that means that we need to have good study conditions for the students. I am concerned that this should be continued and further developed. Next year and the years after that will tell us that we get so many new students. Today we lay the basis for, among other things. to receive new students through new places of study. The government has already started that work. The Working Group on Action Spaces has identified a number of measures that institutions themselves can take to both improve quality and perhaps reduce some of the costs of things that do not need to be spent on today. Our dialogue continues. I have my own business of providing good and proper framework conditions, and the institutions have absolutely their own business to contribute to a better space of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1108	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1111	Yesterday, like some other parents at this time of year, I was at the Easter performance and saw 60 second-class performances – and they impressed, these 7-year-olds. They had learned much without saying, both in English and in Norwegian, they showed solid experience on stage, and not least they all stood out in their own small roles. There was no nervousness to track, as far as we could see, and they had good self-confidence and courage to stand in front of a large gathering of adults, which we now grown up, may not really dare. This is not measured in PISA tests or on national tests, but it has a intrinsic value for the individual and for us as a society that we are to take care of. For safe people, life is more robust and tackles life in general better than in the opposite cases. Norwegian school is very good at this, and we have to take care of that, not least on the way to making school and education even better. That's what this message is about. But as we went out of the auditorium yesterday after the show, one of the parents came to me and said that she was the mother of one of those who had the leading roles. It was Jesus himself who had played, who had first arrived at Jerusalem on palm leaves – and that was when a lot of yuccapalms were used as palm leaves. It ended up tragically with the crucifixion. But the mother said to me, "We're so happy with the new teacher." Last year my son didn't have to stand on that stage. Now he shines with self-confidence – in a completely different way than he did last year. I think that is quite thoughtful, and shows something that is very important, namely that we have a system problem in Norwegian school. Norwegian school is very good. There are many people who have it very well there, but it's too uneven. It's too uneven between teachers, it's too uneven between schools, and it's too uneven between municipalities. Finland is still being shown as a good example in the PISA survey. The committee has recently been there, and what hit me was that they have a culture in the teaching community in that country that makes them more united in the emphasis on learning and knowledge, on how to deal with challenges, and on how to do it. We have a job to do in relation to this which is not just about PISA studies, but also about education, continuing education and training, and that we are now, for example, make this promise in teacher training. The extensive message we are dealing with is precisely about this educational cycle. It's worth noting, I think, that the setting shows that a total accumulation has great ambitions to strengthen this field, because it's necessary for the individual, and because it's necessary for society. In particular, it is that as far as possible, they complete secondary education that is important — and key — so that they can progress in studies or out of work. So even if the message and setting are about everything from primary to higher education, it's the primary school that's in the main focus. The drop-out from there is high, and there are great consequences in terms of fewer vocational training that we so badly need. At the same time, we see a rather sharp increase in the number of young people at reintroduction and among those who are unemployed. There is a very unfortunate development both for the individual in question and for society in general. The position is extensive, and it is not without land. It becomes very clear in committee work for everyone, I think, that most of it is related to education policy. If the curiosity in high school chokes, we get fewer researchers. If initial training fails in key skills such as writing, reading and billing, it directly affects the number of professionals. How good language training is at primary school determines how many will choose to study abroad. The community around us, not least the international, economic and global world we're part of, is also leading this. In the EU, there is a great deal of concern about how to deal with the fact that there are fewer and fewer jobs where special skills are not required. Many classical human-dominated professions disappear, and the group of unskilled men without a job is large. The prospects for this group are also small. The OECD assumes that only 3-5 pst. of the total workforce in the future will consist of unskilled workers. This means that good vocational education or solid academic education must be the goal of all — and those who do not get it become very vulnerable. Our challenge as politicians will then be to create a school that is capable of providing all such a basis for education, but at the same time is a school for all. For neither can nor does everyone want to become an academic, and many are what you call a school coach and so sad theory that education appears to be an orc. Many have contacted all of us in the hall with a prayer that the school must become less theory heavy. But in a knowledge society like ours, we can't just say that someone doesn't understand theory. It is important to have respect and expectation for those starting in the professional field of study, just as we do for those taking study specialisation. Experience also shows that students who are met with respect, taken seriously and who experience clear expectations are much more likely to do so — including those who lack the theory. There are too many students leaving high school who lack basic basic knowledge. That's one of the reasons why high school drop-outs. This gap of knowledge is difficult to close later, and today, the possibilities are limited to take back what has been lost in the past. That's why we want to develop an offer based on experiences around the country, an advance course before you start high school, which can pay for this. The possibility of resuming central parts of high school is not always present. Among young people from 18 to 30 years of age caught by the Nav system, this is perceived as a defect and an obstacle to education and employment. There is no doubt that the integration between theory and professional practice needs to be improved. Anyone who believes that Reform 94 is responsible for this defect is correcting the shooting faults. One of the grips that was taken at the time was precisely to discipline the theory subjects, but it is quite clear to all of us that this has not happened in all classrooms. Step Skei Grande was in on one of the explanation factors, but there are also others. There are examples of theoretical knowledge teachers — e.g. those who teach English – refuse to enter the kitchen or to enter the workshop to teach, but insist on standing in front of the table with chalk, where they feel safe. Then it's not about the curricula, as the Right seems to think, but it's about leadership, it's about exercising the teacher's role, and it's about being safe in professional environments. We have to have a theory education that the students experience as meaningful, and it's room for today. But why is it not possible to add the list below? Many people, especially in school, want to. Then I have an experience that they don't quite know what is waiting for students to go out to work. I wanted to refer to Møller Bil. There was a big look in the Newspaper for a while back, where Møller Bil was very hard on what they expect of the apprentices who come to them: «The teachers' lack of theoretical knowledge is our biggest challenge,' they say. What is the result – when the school has not provided the theory that is going to – is that they go to their own school at Møller Bil, where they get the theoretical knowledge that they have not gained at school. It's a failure statement when it's that way. Then I'll refer to Mehmet, who goes to this school. He smiles easily and says that he has ‘needs to refresh the theory’ when he is going to be a car mechanic. He says he thinks ‘the teaching was boring, but quickly experienced the necessity of it when he came’. Here I think we're at the heart of the debate around theory that's going on in this room right now. It may be a skin debate. I believe that the right in many ways contributes to this, because it is unclear what they mean by their own vocational training plans and the like, when we really have our own professional plans. I also wonder whether the Right will remove it by giving the professional the right to study competence – it hangs a bit in the air. But it's possible there's a skin debate. Because what I think is very important is that the Stortinge informs us, is that the theory must be more practical than many people experience in high school today. At the same time, we can't get four on the requirements, and that's pretty important. Haakon Lie has said a lot wisely. In the 1930s, he was involved in training and education. It was his great mantra, he wanted to train the working class, and spoke directly to the workers. What he said is that it's hard to learn, and you're not going to get it right away, but then you just have to try again, because that's where the key to development is. I don't think we should hide that. Imagining children and young people that they can choose a profession if they don't like theory, because it's a very simple race, which it isn't, is undermining the theory, it undermines Norwegian working life. I think it's very important that we don't celebrate the demands, but give clear signals to the school that if they do the theory better than they do today, the drop-off rates will also go down, and then we've achieved a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1149	We in the Progress Party were happy when the idea of a training line was launched. We have long pointed out that questions about education and the whole education system have received too little focus in recent years, and that it was time for a total review of the system as a whole. We have also thought that we need to get a broader perspective on education. We don't want to continue the sectorial thinking we've had in the past, where a division of schools by level of government, but that a capacity to see education in an overall perspective. Here is the Progress Party's funding model, and it would be a much better solution than today to ensure that this very whole line would be taken into account. We see today that several of the challenges of transition between secondary and secondary education are just coming from different levels of administration and ownership between municipalities, counties and countries, when it comes to funding, information flows and professional flexibility. This funding also means that several good measures and schemes that work well in some schools are not implemented in other municipalities due to poor municipal economy. This creates considerable differences in how the rights of students – related to both the quality of education, access to school-related professionals and health professionals, school buildings, educational materials and other things – are protected. Therefore, we would like to stress that a state-wide price financing of schools throughout Norway would be necessary to maintain the very intention behind the education line and to see education in a comprehensive perspective. But it must also be said that the joy of this message was given a small bismach when the Government and the Minister of Knowledge launched that there would be a separate youth message – not because we do not think it is important to focus on that step, but because we believe that this document should lay the basis for the whole of education and be the most important document. And then it's a shame that such things are aired even before this message was finished. The fight against bullying is one of the topics that has really been on the agenda this fall. From being a topic that has been totally absent in the public debate over the last few years, it has now been brought back to the attention it deserves. We are pleased, despite the fact that no one today has mentioned it in its articles. Unfortunately, we also see that everything talked and the commitment around the theme has not led to a single measure that will improve the situation for those suffering from bullying today. We have per cent. The current date is 50,000 children who are subjected to bullying every week — 50,000 crimes committed — without being held responsible by either bullying, school management or school owners. The government has launched measures — distributions, reports, studies, research, supervision, etc. However, no concrete action has been taken to improve the situation of the thousands of children suffering from it today. We think that's a shame. Furthermore, the fight against high school dropout has been a hot topic. There's cross-political agreement that this is one of our greatest challenges. But a significant point in the Education Line – or lacking in the Education Line – is how to raise the quality of school. While the government is busy making schools and students the same, we in the Progress Party are busy making schools and students better. A good example of this can be seen in the settings and notes when it comes to national tests. Here you can read that the Government's goal with national tests is to balance the differences between schools. It's simple, it's just to lower the good schools. We in the Progress Party are concerned with raising the quality of schools. The goal for us is not that all schools should have equal quality, but better quality. Just this area, with several, shows the clear political and ideological dividing lines, and I'm glad to see that in the line. The right to adapted training, special education and early action is widely addressed by all parties. This is important, and we all agree that we need to get past efforts to prevent future non-response. That's the cross-political agreement, and it's incredibly good. The philosopher Aristotle once said that the worst form of discrimination is trying to treat different things equally. The representative Tingelstad Wøien chose, in his line to Tord Lien today, to divide students into smart and stupid students. Such stigmatisation and characterisation of students and children, I just want to stress that we in the Progress Party do not agree. We believe, however, that increasing the use of professional differentiation in education will make it easier to adapt education to the professional level of the students. Such educational differentiation makes it easier for teachers to give students different subjects, different levels of work, feedback, different requirements and different assessments. The Academic Association also supports such an opening, precisely on the basis of an emphasis that equal access to good basic education is subject to adaptation of the training to the professional level of each individual. At the same time, we believe in the Progress Party that it is important to stress the personal and individual responsibility of the students for their own learning. The school should be a place not to be, but to learn. It is appropriate to define more specific and concrete objectives within each subject in terms of professional understanding and competence that students must have acquired. We need to have registration and testing along the way to check that the students at each step and level have actually achieved the competence objectives set for each step. We need to set up such a system to clarify requirements and provide clearer en route assessments for each student. Such effort will make it more difficult for teachers, school managers or others to push problems further up and forth in the system, and just say that this is caught up later. It will force each one to actually address the problem where it exists, to see if one has achieved well enough to achieve the professional skills objectives before one goes on. When it comes to non-response, we know that this is the largest on professional lines, and it is often linked to the lack of access to apprenticeship. In the Education Line, government parties have, and have done so in the public debate recently, a system of statutory rights to the place of learning. We in the Progress Party hope that this will only merge into the range of slightly less thoughtful proposals in the hope of attracting voters, and will not enter into a real bill, precisely because it is strange and in particular that the Government wants to oblige private businesses and businesses to include apprentices regardless of financial resources or competence in this area. I believe that such a solution in the long term could reduce the quality of vocational training, and thus will not achieve our objective of raising the quality and status of vocational training. Suffering if we in the Progress Party are often accused of being a man-dominated party, we can actually have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We believe it is important to look at early efforts to capture those who are falling away, but it is also important to look at how we can better care for those students who are professionally strong and who are ahead. They've quoted Ibsen here. I'm going to quote Nils Arne Egg. He once said that it is a pedagogical error to believe that one's creating losers. It's an important moment. The Training Act today opens up for students to take courses and final exams at a higher level than the level to which they are associated. The problem is that the system is very little known, both by students' sailors, supervisors, teachers, school managers and school owners. There are also examples of students and seamen wishing to make use of this scheme, but they have been actively opposed by school management or teachers. We believe that this system needs to be better informed and that it will be much better maintained. It is very important to stress that students are given the opportunity to take courses even across levels when coming from high school to higher education, but also from higher education to higher education. This is also linked to the principle used in the Education Line – to see the education cycle as a whole, not just by year and administrative level. Finally, I would just like to stress that we in the Progress Party are positive to the intention and the idea behind the Education Line. It's great to see that we agree on what are the most important challenges. We see that the school system today has many major areas that need improvement. The results of Norwegian schools have been discouraging year after year, and it is a pleasure to see that the Government now also wants to reverse this trend. With that, I hope that the government parties will vote in favour of the proposals that we in the opposition are promoting today, so that we can actually achieve this goal together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1183	It is exciting – and demanding – to deal with a matter that will look at the overall educational offer we provide to our children and young people. It's a complicated whole, and we'll probably also experience after this treatment that there are parts of the education that require further review. To the extent that it has already been notified by the Minister of Knowledge, it has already been notified by notifying a report on secondary education. I think that some of the reasons for such a message, namely that it is important to see high school as a whole, seem strange, given that today we are dealing with the message that is to see education as a whole, but we are definitely attending a message about the important, yes absolutely central role of high school in a successful education cycle. We have a good education offer in Norway, and for most, it offers great opportunities. At the same time, it is our responsibility to constantly evaluate and grasp the things that can be improved. When we see that the system makes it difficult for some of the students and students to complete well, it is our duty to do the necessary steps to change this. I must say that I had expected this message to have been marked by several concrete suggestions for improvements. Repeated debates here in the Chamber have raised many of the challenges that the communication talks about, now is the time for action. It is alarming that a majority government that has been running for five years is still influenced by investigations, the reduction of samples and the answer ‘We are in the process of doing this’, without clear action and improvement coming. The right is pleased that both the Communication and the Committee’s work consistently focus on the quality of education and that it is a common wish that quality requirements be met when addressing the challenges. The main challenge for universities and colleges in the coming years seems to be the possibility of accepting new and larger student coal in a good way and – as I said – without weakening the quality of the individual student’s supply. There are many different numbers in terms of the need for more places of study, from the 70 000 to 80 000 of the notification to the 20 000 of the notes, but no matter what number is used, it is far above the number of places of study that we can offer today, and there is still no concrete and predictable plan for how this can be achieved. I would therefore like to repeat my question to the State Council of Aasland, which I hope someone will be able to convey, about what a comprehensive university and higher education sector has asked: When will there be a concrete plan to increase the number of places of study, a plan that can create predictability for the actors? Yes, I have registered that the Council of State has talked about taking all vacancies into use, and that more people have to study abroad, but this has not been followed up with the necessary concrete proposals. One example of this is the current discrimination between students at a State and a non-governmental educational institution. Firstly, institutions are not given the same framework. Therefore, if, in order to provide a qualitatively good offer, they choose to introduce school money, this will mean that a student at that institution completes the studies with hundreds of thousands more in student loans than the student who chose the public institution. This does not equal the right to education and does not stimulate the choice of offers already in place and offered by several of the private actors. Can the Council of States really afford to continue this discrimination? It is also strange that private individuals have to invite themselves in and almost demand to be included as participants when job vacancies are to be surveyed. How can the Council of State imagine that vacant study places should be surveyed without including the private offer? Doesn't the Council of State view the private as a fully-fledged and good enough offer? Shouldn't they have been approved? More than me, I am curious whether the Council of State can give a clear answer to this, and a justification for the way in which the private offer has been dealt with. In addition, in the case of student funding for foreign students, the government parties will make the necessary improvements to allow more possibilities to make this choice. I am pleased that the opposition is united in the desire to give the same loan and grant schemes to the so-called freshman year in the United States and to the first year of Bachelor's degree in non-Western countries as to other higher education abroad, and I am amazed that the government's desire for more students abroad is not followed up by the fact that the government parties support this proposal. After much criticism and pressure from several teams, the Aasland Action Space Committee established. It is in itself frightening that the Council of State should set up a sample to find out whether the overall feedback from sector organisations can be correct. Now the Council of State has received the answer. The conclusion is clear: the action room has become smaller. The report clearly points to the lack of increase in the basic appropriations to cover increased costs. In addition, the report has provided a number of clear recommendations for the State Councils to follow up. I wonder now whether the Council of State can reassure the Storting that she and the sector actors share a common understanding of the challenges? Has the report clarified what action needs to be taken? This is essential for the follow-up of the intention of this Storing Communication. I'm waiting again anxiously for the Council's response. Being a knowledge-based nation with a knowledge-based, international business requires work on recruitment for the studies that business needs. For a long time, there has been a deliberate effort to get more people to choose real-life vocational studies. It is with great concern that we see that the level of knowledge of the real vocational students is getting worse compared to other countries. This requires further focus on the continuing training of teachers and cooperation with industry in order to increase the level of knowledge. In this context, an overall committee also points to the important role of knowledge centres in the selection of studies. A focus on real-life science is a safe and effective tool to recruit more people for these studies. It is therefore of concern to the right that the Government does not follow up the regional science centres with sufficient resources to ensure quality and development. The grant to the science centres must be increased so that the State contribution can rise to the level that was the starting point for the initiative. Furthermore, the right does not agree with the Government’s clear message of closing the door to several science centres, but considers that the national initiative must take care of the centres necessary to ensure real-time recruitment where there are relevant study facilities and environments. Then I have to say, I'm really worried about the colleges. Professional schools are an important and good offer, and one of the most important is the flexibility that enables challenges both in business and in the public sector to be captured and addressed. The same flexibility will mean that the number of students will vary greatly from school to school, from county to county, and not least from period to period. What worries me is that these changes will not be addressed in the funding model that is currently being used. Nor does it make it easy for county councils, which themselves are school owners, to distribute these funds. The state must take full responsibility for this, and it is possible the best thing would be to go back to direct government funding. In any case, it is necessary to establish a system which captures the flexibility to be available in specialised schools, which provides for non-discrimination, and which ensures that resources are allocated to the individual school owner in relation to the offer made and the number of education provided. I have had the main focus in this article on students' opportunities and the experience of the education offered. Those are the ones we make the offer for! There is, however, much one could say about the conditions and predictability of those working in the sector, but I can promise that we will come back to that both today and on later occasions. I sincerely hope that this big message, the Education Line, and the committee's thorough commitment through comments will now be followed up with concrete issues to ensure the implementation of the intentions. We need action and follow-up. This week there are too many students and students who take Easter holidays with a feeling that they don't master their everyday lives, and they wonder if they'll come back after Easter. Each of these needs a clear signal from us that this is taking us seriously, and a promise from us that we will do something concrete to ensure that more people experience mastering and desire to finish education. We owe that to the young people, to those who are going to be involved and secure the future of the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1216	My main focus should now be on Norway as a knowledge nation must be in the European elite series in higher education and research. Why is it necessary to be clear about this perspective, President? I don't expect the President to answer, I'll do it myself. Well, it's based on expectations that not only current but also future Norwegian public welfare production will be the world's foremost both in terms of quality and accessibility for all. The expectations are and should be ambitious. This is linked to the fact that the Norwegian economy, which is highly petroleum-based, and therefore, with all probability, will keep a high cost level in the transparent future, implies that we must be in the European elite series when it comes to our education and research. Because if we settle down and think that we have so much money in this country that it's not so dangerous if we lower the requirements for quality in school, as the Right does when it comes to vocational training, or if we think in all consideration that it's okay that education and research are in the middle of the European level, then there's a great danger that it will go beyond innovation in business, and that it will go beyond the employment, the creation of value and, in the next round, the quality of public welfare services. It is this that must be the perspective when we discuss this matter. The Labour Party and the Government have taken a prestigious view with their right-hand business neutral policy. Although Norway geographically has a certain extent – yes, we are actually the 13th largest in the world – we are not exactly the world's most populous country. Let's go that we can get the impression when we read Norwegian newspapers, but that's got to be the newspaper's problem. So we have a limited population and therefore also a limited human capital, even though the level of education is very high. For this reason, the Government's industrial policy is clearly aligned with those industries and economic clusters in which Norway, in a global context, has an open comparative advantage, i.e., either man-made or natural. I would like to remind you of Torger Reve, who correctly pointed out that in the maritime/marine sector, energy, petroleum, fisheries, aquaculture, travel – and for my part I would like to add light metal – we have international nutrient clusters that are completely in the front. Contrary to the right-hand side, we in the Labour Party believe that this is an area where we must be extra remarkable. These business clusters have more innovation, they have stronger growth, they have higher productivity, and for us who are busy with work movement, it's nice to say that there's also the highest average pay for them to add. Then we're at a little bit of my head score again. If we are to succeed in this industrial policy, we must also have a clear link with this very perspective on education and research policy. I'll hurry to add that part of the research that's already going on in business is in a global elite series. I would particularly like to point out here at the Hydro Research Department in Årdal, which is at the forefront when it comes to research and, in the next round, the production of environmentally friendly technologies for the aluminium industry. Here's Norway leading the world. It is otherwise this industry party left its leader referred to as a sunset industry with which we should get rid of. Just as national development policies are research-based, regional development needs to go hand in hand with research. That's the idea behind the regional research funds, which the Progress Party will probably zero out. I have had a brief visit to the regional and national research dimension. My conclusion is that we have good prospects to be able to claim from among the fronts of Europe, but then we need to focus more on the areas where we have a advantage. And we have good chances of happiness, because the nice thing is that 90 pst. Of all those who have lived, and of those who live today, they are alive. Knowledge, not least learning, is now far more important than capital, salary levels and natural resources for the creation of value and competitiveness of a country. Knowledge is, in other words, the most important tool for creating a better society. Then I'm back where I started: Norwegian research and higher education must play so absolutely in European elite series.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1237	The education line has a lot of work to do. It highlights many problems and provides good solutions to the challenges we face in the education process. Unfortunately, little or nothing is fixed in terms of using the solutions, although a good part of them could have been implemented by re-prioritising current resource use. For example, demands for quiet and order in the class and better discipline will lead to better use of school hours. Time will go to teaching, and the teacher will have time to focus on the most important thing: to learn away, not least those students who need extra help to understand will benefit from. Good behavior, calmness and order also make it easier to adapt the teaching to the individual student and may reduce bullying. Furthermore, a good system of assessment and constructive feedback must be put in place for pupils and trainees from 1st class. Early efforts are important for the whole educational cycle. It contributes to increased learning outcomes and addresses possible problems at an early stage. If this is not done at primary school, it can lead to high school drop-outs, which is a major problem. According to an article on the school leaving which was in the Haugesunds Avis on 19 March, the proportion of school leavingrs is «strongly related to the pupils’ intake scores». This shows that it is important to use organised education early in order to care for those students who, for various reasons, are unable to acquire the curriculum/knowledge as quickly as others. Therefore, it was positive that the representative of Aasen in his statement signalled his support for the advance, such as: Oslo has good experience with it. A significant part of the non-response of approx. 30 pst. in the upper secondary professions, it can also be attributed to the fact that the theory is not sufficiently vocational. This now seems to be the agreement of all the parties. This means that the professional professions are once again given the status and recognition that they should of course have. The progress party is to reintroduce practical electoral skills at the youth level – this is because we know that some are much better in practical subjects than in theoretical subjects, and thus acquire theoretical knowledge better through the practice of theory. Some counties have put in place a probationary system of letters of practice for students who, for various reasons, are unwilling or unable to take full education in ordinary school. The Progress Party considers the Letter of Practice to be a good arrangement and will introduce it in all counties, provided that the letter can lead directly to a full professional letter. It must also apply to persons with developmental disabilities, who are also entitled to training according to their own abilities and assumptions. Education and building of competences are important regardless of age. The Progress Party is positive that people of all ages have the opportunity to acquire knowledge of competence, which a number of actors offer. In particular, it is important to provide basic labour skills, which help to strengthen the self-esteem of workers in the labour market. Employers in both the private and public sectors need employees in the Norwegian language. This offer needs to be made much better known than it is today. Adult training, which is also provided by the study associations, offers 37 000 courses and receives 179 million annually. kr in grants from the State. That's a lot of money, considering that just ten pst. offered by participants in the courses who can provide a certificate of competence. Courses in gardening, watercolor painting and how to make tapas are difficult for the Progress Party to see qualify for massive State aid. We believe that a course of competence aimed at working life must be given priority. It will also focus on the need for and importance of multiple apprenticeships. The possibility of receiving a full degree certificate at the school must be investigated. The public sector needs to be much better than today. Public agencies and employers need to develop clear objectives in this respect. Positive business incentives should also be introduced to increase the number of apprenticeships there. This is an important factor in efforts to prevent non-training. In conclusion, I would like to say about the minority comment from the Progress Party and the Right on the subject of the vocational school and its future financing, that I hope for a great part that the majority of the population is conscious of their responsibilities and follow up the vocational school, so that it will have a good future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1263	For the first time, a comprehensive communication addressing the whole of society’s skills needs is presented. The name ‘Educational Line’ shows in an excellent way how important education and competence will be in future Norway. One can draw parallels between the Education Line and the Working Line. The workline became an important welfare strategy in the United States as early as the 1970s. The Nordic countries have followed up, and in Norway, the workline was introduced as a strategy in the early 1990s. The aim is to get as much work as possible and to give individuals the opportunity to support themselves. In St.meld. No 35 for 1994–95 The Velferdsmeldung is entitled: ‘Workline means that instruments and welfare schemes are organised in such a way that they support the objective of working for all’. [[...]] It also states that social welfare schemes must motivate work. And it goes on to say: ‘The objective of high employment, which also includes those who put low in competition on the labour market, requires good welfare arrangements on which the individual may fall back whose work is no longer possible for health or other reasons.’ To draw a parallel to the Education Line, one might say that the goal is education for everyone. Those who are weak shall be given an opportunity in Norwegian school. And those who are not caught well enough in primary school and fall from high school shall not give up. Pupils who fall away shall be given new opportunities. Furthermore, one shall motivate and facilitate the widest possible use of higher education. One important point in the message we are discussing today is to prevent and prevent non-response. Several people have to complete their education to get to work and have a safe place in their working life. The main response to non-advantage in secondary education is in primary school. If you can't read and write when you leave high school, there's a higher risk of falling from high school. We are responsible for the development of basic skills for all those who attend primary school, so that they do not have problems in further education and working life. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007,... and no one was left Early lifelong learning, evidence was provided that a large proportion of those from secondary education leave primary school without having acquired sufficient knowledge and skills. The drop-out is therefore not just a matter of secondary education. In St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08 Quality in school was a clear target for initial training. There was a good monitoring of the level and skills of students in the field, so that school owners, schools and teachers could take targeted action more easily. A significant strengthening of early childhood interventions was proposed, among others. by reinforcing the reading and billing training of between 1 and 4. steps and to introduce a read mapping of between 1 and 3. steps. The hours of childhood have increased in the subjects of Norwegian, math and English. For many, the motivation in high school is decreasing. Many people have problems finding a place and spending time teaching. What matters most to students' learning and motivation in the subjects is the teacher. But many skilled teachers may have problems in awakening students' interest in subjects such as mathematics, English and Norwegian. The Labour Party therefore believes that it is advisable to consider providing pupils with major skills shortages from the early stages, shorter courses or half-yearly courses. However, there is much to suggest that this can be done through a separate step — this because these young people may have difficulty coping with high school or working life. There are many skilled teachers in Norwegian schools today, but many fall from the educational cycle and many trained teachers choose to move to other professions. This shows that the education as it is today does not prepare the students well enough for the day-to-day meeting them in the classroom. That is why we need to improve teacher training. A new teacher training is started from the autumn, which is more progressive and gives students greater competence in the subjects in which they are to be taught. In addition, pedagogics are strengthened by a new subject called ‘pedagogics and learners’, and further training of teachers is under way. It is said that it takes ten years before one sees the effect of an educational decision. The long-term perspective is to build good education systems. Although we have put in increased efforts early in school, it still takes a few years before we see the effect of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1297	Parties that remove the lack of gender balance in academia have no credibility when they claim to have higher quality in research. Higher quality research is not only about the working conditions of researchers but also about recruiting the very best minds. Then the possibilities of being recruited as a scientific employee must be the same for both sexes. The speech of the numbers is clear. Among the graduates, women make up 60 pst., but among the professors, women average only 20 pst. This cut hides a more dramatic reality. In health and social services, female professors make up 30 pst. – i.e. above average – but in technology departments, female professors make up 2.7 pst. NIFU STEP also demonstrates in one of its reports that men get a firmer position faster than women do. These simple facts cannot be limited to just women’s or gender issues. As I see it, this is primarily a matter of using all the skills and talents that exist in the population, regardless of gender. Gender balance in the academy is about taking advantage of the research talents. When the figures show a clear bias in the favor of men in scientific positions, there is a problem that needs to be corrected. I am therefore pleased that all parties mention this lack of gender balance in academia. But I am surprised that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have chosen not to participate in the majority's remark that there is a need for 'different measures, such as financial incentives for institutions, to improve the proportion of female scientific staff in institutions where this proportion is low'. Instead, they have followed up with a general note where they write that when ‘more and more women take higher education’, this will ‘contribute to the qualification of more women for scientific positions’. Right, Christian People's Party and Left might as well be written in an annotation form that they would sit down and wait for Godot. Then I just wish them luck. For the gender balance in the academy does not take care of itself. I wish that the good words these parties use about positive incentives to recruit students of both sexes, had also been about scientific staff – that would have been something. With amazement and joy, however, I am glad that the Progress Party is in line with us, and will have economic incentives to raise the proportion of women. In that case, it is a change of pace in their policy. I welcome them after, and I challenge them to explain this change in politics. I also want them to explain why they later seem to contradict themselves when they write that they are ‘taking for granted’ that there will be a single generation of women in academic positions. Will they, or will they not have action? At least they insinuate both of them. We don't want to sit and wait, or just hope, that the gender balance will take care of itself over time. We will act. One possible measure on economic incentives is mentioned in the referral, but more will be discussed by the group of States Councillors, Tora Aasland, called ‘Numbers and measures’, where she, among others, is concerned. will assess the impact of measures to reduce the use of temporary employment — a phenomenon known to affect women in particular. We will also continue to listen to the analyses of the Committee on Women in Research, which was established by the Ministry of Education and Research at that time. I have a hope that the opposition in the future will see that the work for equality in the academy is not about being unreasonablely kind to unqualified women who do not get the jobs they want. Instead, it is about ensuring that research is of the highest quality possible by actually employing the best – whether women or men.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1320	If we want an equal society and equal pay, or a better society where we use all of our resources, we are forced to tackle the gender-based labour market. But perhaps the most important thing we can achieve is that we give our young people real opportunities – they get twice as many opportunities, and they get their talents. Just listen: twice as many possibilities for our young people! I would like to thank the case-speaker Truls Wickholm for a good job, and that before today he presented the proposal which reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess measures that can counteract today’s gender-based labour market and increase the real opportunities for boys and girls to use their own talents through untraditional educational and vocational choices.’ I believe that this proposal will be widely supported. What can we do to change your professional preferences? I think the first thing we have to get hold of is the advisory service. The Committee also notes that they want the advisory service to be upgraded so that students can receive better support in making choices in further training. So I think that in addition to the personal advice, it's important that the school has the most possible knowledge of local professional life and what kind of possibilities actually exist. I believe that we can achieve this through increased cooperation with companies and attracting young people who go on or are learning, into the youth sphere as role models. The research clearly shows that, in addition to the influence of parents, experiences and meetings with role models are important influences for young people’s choices, and in particular whether they should hesitate to make untraditional choices. Here we think we have a lot to get. During the day I met 30 young girls who were either car mechanics or electricians. None of them had been advised by their adviser to take the subjects – in fact the opposite! Sintef has produced reports for the Education Directorate in a project on advice in Norwegian school. The one report is entitled ‘Sex in School Advice — A Forgotten Theme?’ The report is based on the gender-based labour market and counselling, and he concludes that there is very little focus on and action to do so, and the gender perspective of counselling is characterised as a non-theme, although it is actually one of the main objectives in our own action plan for equality. One of the main objectives is better gender balance in the choice of education and profession, with a special focus on vocational and vocational training. The report calls for a strong strategic effort from the political point of view, as part of countering the gender-based labour market, which is constantly being reproduced through professional choices. We have to take this seriously. I also believe that increased recruitment and professional status are important for the professions themselves, it is important for the labour market and it is important to increase the number of non-traditional choices. So I think it's important that once our young people have chosen untraditionally, we have to take care of them. It is important that you come into a class where other girls or boys have chosen untraditionally. In the municipality of Oslo, there is a private project for the girls who are looking for typical good jobs on the professional sphere. Everyone is offered to be locked into one school, just to get in the same class. They are offered a 'Take Place' course and they are offered networks. This is a very good project, but it is a project that depends on fireworks. There is no routine present in the system. I would like guys who are looking untraditionally also to be offered a similar project. I know by now. Not today about any such projects, but at least we have many good examples of what we can do. The case spokesperson also mentioned the project Girls in Bil & Elektro before today. It is an enterprise development project, where companies themselves work to make the workplaces more suitable for both boys and girls, not only because they are so concerned about equality, but because they also want to recruit the best in the future. It's about that. This project can also be used in other contexts, such as: about getting boys to the health and care profession. I just want to repeat it: it's about giving our youth twice as many opportunities and letting them use their talents. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1355	It is also about keeping the measured speaking time! The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1361	Human capital is the greatest resource we have. He is more important than both oil and gas and all other nutrients combined. We like to talk about being world leaders in a range of areas. I also thought we should have as a vision to be world leaders to invest in knowledge. We politicians have a great responsibility to be the organisers of good teaching places. Children and young people must be met at the level they are and lead as far as possible. It must be a goal that everyone feels like winning at their level. It will create a sense of work, motivation and self-employment. In fact, one in three do not complete further training within the normal time. This is not a problem that suddenly appears when starting in the next level. No, this is a challenge that already starts in the childhood school, building up more and more through the youth school. Diagnosis is scoundrel-red youth, elephants that are leased to the school, theory and school books. The vaccine is prevention – prevention from the first day of childhood until one is safely out of further education and in work or further education. I believe that a large part of this prevention must be to introduce a good deal of practice in all subjects, both in childhood and in childhood. You should be much better at taking your students out into everyday life. Here you can actually show the relationship between a teacher at school and what can be used outside the community. It doesn't seem to say that it's in the curriculum and that's why you're going to learn it. Imagine if the teacher took the students to the architect's office when they were going to learn about area calculation, or on board the boat when they were going to learn seafarers. Two simple examples – only imagination sets limits. In further education I think cooperation school-business needs to be made something completely different from what we see today. Students should be much more involved in the social life they will meet as apprentices and complete out-of-work workers. Being up-to-date with equipment has always been a major challenge for the advanced schools. In most cases, the equipment around the secondary schools is no longer available in the business community. I don't think we have the power to update all the advanced schools with today's technology. Therefore, we need to arrange for the schools with the local business where the students in the balls, like a month in the sling, are out to practice the equipment that will meet them when they are finished in the secondary school. It is also essential for the academic spheres, higher education and research to develop a much closer cooperation with industry. We need to get a much better understanding of the needs of our working life and link these needs both to research and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1380	This is an exciting debate that I've followed with interest – and it's probably an exciting committee to work in. I want to say something about lines in Norwegian education policy, because they are often able to trace far back. In the case of secondary education, we still see the features of the Steen Committee in the 1960s. We build combined secondary schools with a horizontal and integrated relationship between vocational and study specialisation. This is a policy we can recognise, a policy that has been leading Norway for many decades. However, I don't find that much of that continuity in parts of the opposition's school policy, perhaps especially in terms of what the Right has said in this debate until now. The policy has long been marked by a yearning for a new position. From the heart of Kristin Clemet's extensive theory of high school a few years ago, including professional studies, the Right has made a 180-degree turnaround and is now asking the Government to draw up its own curricula for the professional field. It hasn't been many years since I and many S.B. people were fooled by the Right. The right made fun of SVs and teachers and students who criticized Right – at that time – quite one-sided focus on what they called ‘increased learning pressure’. The clear willingness of the Culture for Learning, as previously mentioned by the representative of Wickholm, to tighten up the requirements of study competence and the possibility for professionals to take up further education stands in clear contrast to the line on which the Right has now taken place. Is it really the same Right as in Culture for Learning that defined the school's core task as an institution of competence alone and devalued the concept of knowledge to something purely quantitative, where social skills, inspiration and mastery were defecated polemically as a 'toy school'? It is a pleasure that the Right has made a settlement with that line, but I have to admit that it feels a little strange to hear, for example. Right-wing representative Hofstad Greece criticise SV for wanting to monitor too much – with the publication and use of national samples and very aggressive rhetoric against critics freshly in memory. However, there are still some traces of this old conflict line in school policy in some of the comments of the Right, for example. where they wish to introduce grades of 5th class. That's what it says. ‘These members believe grades are the most accurate feedback at the professional level we have.’ I'd like to challenge the right on that. Does the Right really think that grades for 10-year-olds are a more precise tool for professional feedback than the actual contact between teacher and student every day? It makes me fool.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1398	I'm not going to withdraw the line -- so we spend a lot of time on it -- to those who got out of high school in the 1960s. I guess we have more important problems in front of us now. I fully agree with the previous speakers that this is an important debate. I also agree that there has been a good debate at times. I will draw attention to the part of the debate that is going on in high school dropout, and record with satisfaction that everyone in this debate sees this as a serious problem. Let me first start with two important things that the left-hand side often forgets. One is that Norway is a long and diverse country. This makes a solution to a problem that fits in Oslo, necessarily will not fit in Båtsfjord. The second moment that we have to take over, whether we want it or not, is that we have a diverse population in this country. So what makes Per perform is not necessarily true for Pål. In the early 2000s, when I came from Båtsfjord, two major industrial workplaces dropped out of office, and the problems of getting Per and Pål to complete high school became very topical and became apparent today. The responsibility for Per, Pål and the other young people in Båtsfjord was transferred as a pilot scheme to the municipality. In short, we started our own municipal high school where many of our young people went. In recognizing that Per and On are different, we bought places at the county council for those of our young people who would either go on a line we didn't have, or had other good reasons to travel away from Båtsfjord to go to school. In Båtsfjord, we built up the pedagogical around the principle of 13-year-old schooling. We saw the students throughout school, which gave us very good results. For the Båtsfjord school, including high school, this led to a clearer student focus. We eased the transition from primary to secondary school. We gave teachers in a small municipality higher motivation for continuing training. As a result, the parents saved approx. NOK 50 000 per year. years per year. Student, which is actually also a motivation to get kids to go to school. And last, but not least, we got close cooperation between school and business, so that we could give advice to the young early, before they would make their line choices, which we also were successful. In short, we got very, very many more of our young people to complete and pass high school than we did before. Now, of course, the model did not fit into the central school regime of the red-greens, so the school was laid down as soon as the trial was over. In fact, the model wasn't even finalized, even though we had good results to point to. The project was well suited in Båtsfjord, and the boat fjorders did not stop. So the council will find an application from the municipality of Båtsfjord to start a private high school on the basis of the experience we've done, and the results we can document. I've spent my time, so I'll end up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1417	That's absolutely right. Time is running fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1420	My grandfather was a schoolman, and he used to say that knowledge is easy to bear. It is knowledge of the many who create good and secure lives. In parallel with the education line, Stortinget is working this spring with the Cooperation Reform. The reform is necessary in order to have equivalent healthcare to all 10 and 20 years in advance. We're getting a lot older. Therefore, the healthcare sector needs more and more warm hands and wise heads. In the report on the labour market for health and social workers up to 2030, the Central Statistical Office describes how the supply and demand for a total of 20 groups of personnel will develop. When all groups are considered together, there will be a negative balance sheet of 38000 annual works at the end of the period. If a higher demand-side alternative is used, there will be a total undercoverage of 84 000 annual works. We know that it takes time to train professionals. That is why we need to step up education capacity in time. Education and healthcare have a community of fate – the cooperation reform is successful when we create an educational wave at the same time. The underbalance of future health professionals varies considerably between different groups. The main picture is that the capacity of university education is close to the need, while the health professionals from secondary school are being severely undermined. The sub-coverage here is 41,500 annual works in a reference option. To correct this, 20 pst must be trained and employed. several health professionals each year. Against this background, it is alarming that fresh figures from the Special Health Calculation Committee show that the number of health professionals in Norwegian hospitals has fallen by 22 pst. during the period 2002-2008. This negative trend is accentuated by a large shortage of areas of practice for health professionals. I am very concerned about this development. A large and well-defined future need for annual work in the health and care sector can only be addressed through the proper use of skills, through the direct contact of several annual works with those in need of treatment and care, and by reducing the number of part-time jobs. I can't see that we can manage to create equivalent healthcare for everyone in the future without a clear role and significant growth in the number of health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1439	I get to start by regretting that I have no quote from Ibsen clear. I was not aware that this school debate was so central. But I have noticed that some of the quotes used are taken from the drama Brand, and as we know, Brand died under the snow. We're going to hope it's not symptomatic of the school debate. I want to comment on a few of the things that have been up here in the debate. The representative Marianne Aasen of the Workers' Party quoted Haakon Lie's wisdom saying that it is hard to learn. That's right. Even I've worked 15 years at school as a teacher and a principal, and I can say that this is actually the case. But one of the problems is that the reforms that have been introduced and that have been at the forefront of the Workers' Party have simply gone into the stranglehold of the principle that it is hard to learn. With L97 and Reform 94 we got a school where to learn through play. In fact, those who were in the first grade were not allowed to learn to read and write. I myself was the principal then and thought it was a little frustrating to say to the teachers: you are not allowed to teach the students to read and write. They were supposed to be social, they were going to be cultural, they were going to play, they were going to be projects, but they weren't going to learn to read and write. Then there was not much knowledge in the school, and the teacher was reduced to a supervisor. He was to stand in the background and make sure that the students took responsibility for their own learning, and then there would be great results. Today, I think we all agree that the left-hand school and pedagogics have fallen completely. I don't think anyone wants to go back to that experiment. Much of the school policy and debate today is almost like a clean-up action after this school experiment. The big losers, of course, are the students. It's also written about a doctorate. Trippestad in Bergen has written a doctorate on this. He says, ‘School students, multicultural Norway, teachers and democracy. All are the losers of the policy reformers of politics.’ He's based on three years of research. So how can we move on? I want to record one thing that has been up here. The representative Tingelstad Wøien from the Senterpartiet talked about that we want classes for stupid students and classes for good students. I take a great distance from that way of marking students. There are no stupid students. There may be mentally weak students, there may be students who have different backgrounds, there may be students who are in different situations, who have different mental or emotional challenges, but there are no stupid students. All students – all people – have strong sides, have talents that they can use. If you think about professional differentiation, it's actually going to be a help for both the theoretical strengths and the theoretically weak students. You can also differentiate between practical and aesthetic subjects, so that many of those who are not good at theoretical subjects can do well in practical and aesthetic subjects. In this way, they can increase the sense of mastery, increase motivation and increase learning in school. This is why it is a good measure for all students in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1459	I share the representative Health's analysis of the need to escalate education capacity in healthcare. There is a great need for a training and quality lift in the care services to ensure a professionally sound and dignified offer. More hands are needed in the care sector, not least we need competent hands. Unskilled people make a formidable effort and stand for more than 30 pst. by annual services in the care sector. But they have an unreasonable responsibility with the care of serious sick and dying people in relation to their competence. The right will invest more in care service employees and offer unskilled people a knowledge gap in order to provide them with greater safety in their professional activities and improved quality of care. And it's urgent to recruit more qualified staff to improve the offer today, and to ensure enough qualified help in the years to come. In this context, I will address the situation of the vocational schools. When the administrative reform was introduced on 1 January of this year, responsibility for the financing and management of the specialised schools was transferred from the Ministry of Knowledge to the county municipalities. The counties own part of the vocational schools, but well over half are owned by private and non-profit institutions serving households. The administrative law has given the counties a difficult double role. They shall manage and finance all vocational education and training in the county to meet the needs of the labour force in their own region at the same time as they own their own specialised schools. There are already many examples that some county councils do not handle this dual role in a proper manner but give economic benefits to their own vocational schools. This applies, inter alia, to: in the field of health and social work, despite the fact that existing legislation on the vocational training of health and social subjects presupposes equal treatment of public and private providers as regards grants. As a result, we lose professional offers that health authorities have defined as very important educational services to ensure the quality of healthcare services. The Landsförbund of Friskoler, the Norwegian Association for Distance Education and Flexible Education and Abelia have shown concrete examples from county municipalities that cut transfers to private schools, giving most to their own. They are monopolising vocational education and training in health and social matters. This will have a serious impact on the availability of training services across the country. Recruitment and upgrading of health skills will be reduced, while growing enormously. I would like to ask the Council of State what she will actually do to put an end to this discrimination that is now emerging in some county municipalities, and how she will ensure that the private health schools on which we are highly dependent will continue to exist in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1474	Absence at secondary school starts at primary school. There have been several of the speakers. Many have also said that it is the teacher who is most important to the theorists, but not least to those who are weak in theory. Then it is good to strengthen teacher training. It is a pity not to have a proper debate at the same time on whether it is time to introduce a five-year teacher training course in Norway, as many Western countries have, for example. Finland, which we have a hard time competing with. It is clear that a simple solution to stop high school dropout is to eliminate requirements for competence and attendance and, nevertheless, to provide study competence and letter to all. It's a simple solution. But I think some common skills objectives for the professions are important. I want the mason, the engineer and the architect to be able to talk to each other in the future, not only at work, but also at the Christmas table. To make things easier, at least not the status of the subjects. That being said, I want to talk about the real subjects and what we're going to live on in the future. There are many politicians throughout history who have decided what to live on in the future. Some of them even went so far as to make five-year plans. It didn't go very well. At least I hope the majority in the Chamber can agree with that. But it is quite obvious that a strong knowledge economy will be good even in the centuries to come. General Electric has today announced that they will establish both development, production and research departments in Norway. The world’s largest producer of energy production technologies establishes a major research and development department in Norway. The reason is that the North knows how to do it, the North has the knowledge. But it won't necessarily be like that forever. An illustration of that St.meld. No 44 did not go far enough, the government’s strategy for real science for the future is – I would say – clear and clear, but frighteningly illustrates the challenge facing real subjects in Norway. 10 pst. of the applicants for general teacher training have full depression in mathematics, and 15 pst. has a depression in chemistry. In high school, 40 pst. less than one year of education, and only 7 pst. has a major competence in the real subjects. These are those who currently manage the real subjects and teach those who will in the future ensure that General Electric and others establish themselves in Norway. Then I want to challenge the Council of State, which did not have time in its first post to talk about the real subjects, to address us in this important matter, in terms of what we should do to give priority to the real subjects. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1487	The number is still 3 minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1490	I am pleased that the Government will improve Norwegian school by looking at the whole of future skills needs. Seeing the whole also in the people who are learning is an important key to success in that work. The Labour Party believes that a forward-looking education policy must have training for everyone, not just a few. All students want to be seen and cared for. Therefore, it is important to look at the breadth of the school’s competence. Each student must also learn to take responsibility for his or her own learning, and parents must be involved and accountable if their children have problems at school. The school must contribute to increased skills in the real world, and employ more learning methods that get students involved. To avoid abstinence, you have to take the boy or the girl with behavioral problems, in the first class, and don't let hop until you get to high school or high school. If you're having a hard time at home, there's a lot of ways in which you're shutting down to take in anything from learning, and you get off first, it's hard to take back what's lost. The school will prepare the students to grasp the future's workplaces, which is quite demanding. That is why the Workers' Party is concerned that they have a PP service that has a 13-year-old race that also offers good offers to those who move from home when they start high school. I noticed that the Progress Party and the Right point out that the weakness of the Norwegian primary school is that it reproduces social differences. In this context, I have to remind the right-hand side that public schools have been one of the most important instruments on the contrary, namely to develop a society with small differences between people, no matter what background they have. In countries where right-wing policy prevails, however, this is a reality that needs to be looked into. I have received input from local politicians who want to get more clear signals from the Council of State about what should be prioritised in the municipalities, and ask her to take that recording with her. Future school is a school that has staff who see the students and who can provide adapted, good education for everyone. The fundamental ideology of the Workers' Party is based on community, respect and equivalency. It also needs to have a common school as its pillars. I think that can help us get into a good school in the future too – and a better school than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1507	Providing everyone with good opportunities to take education is a key strategy for developing the Norwegian welfare community. I intend to focus on the work on reducing the drop-out rate in secondary education and some of the measures proposed. Action must be taken early. This means that primary and secondary education is very important in order to have speed and motivation into high school. Extra help for students who are struggling in English, mathematics and Norwegian is important. And equally important is that practical subjects come in more strongly. The central party believes that work trials in secondary school are the right way to go. The advisory service shall be strengthened. It's important. It is also important to follow-up students when they start high school, and perhaps we need to strengthen that work significantly in relation to what is today. Outlying students have a special challenge. For many, it is difficult to live alone as well as to control everyday life with school and leisure time. Leisure activities can be so tempting that they go beyond everyday school life. Therefore, improved follow-up service, mentoring and contact teacher arrangements are important steps towards a better response chain. So we know that many host municipalities and counties have started actions that work. It may be especially important that we make sure that others can learn from what works well. I would like to mention an example of something that Nordland County Practices, the LOSA Model. In some municipalities, provision is made for the first year of secondary school in cooperation with the labour market, of which the name LOSSA: local training in cooperation with the labour market. In practice, there are different types of jobs and combine them with classroom and ICT education. This has led to minimal non-response, and the students have very good grades. I believe that this is a good attempt at a solution. The central party believes that we need to ensure that more young people get through the educational cycle with victory in the bag. Procedural measures will be important in order to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1523	The title of Chapter 1 of the Great Britain Education Line – a solid knowledge society made me reflect on the message from a historical perspective. If this thing that says there's no verbatim quote from what Marcus Thrane said all in the 1850s, it's in the same spirit. Workplaces simply created the same year, 160 years ago, a school program that said the following: A teacher should have a maximum of 40 elephants in the class, a sculetida should be at least 15 hours a week, a teacher's wages should be at least 100 specialties – I doubt that the Teaching Association had been satisfied with this today. In addition, the programme said that high-quality elves from the almsculpture would be given free space in higher education. But the program also went much further. It was radical, and it took its contents to the school. Sorry, Christian People's Party, but the program said that it was not just about pugging religious books, but also about training in science, geography, mathematics, writing, etc. I kept saying that this could go straight into the school board today. My point is that the movement of workers has always been an information movement. I'm going to give the party the Left Honor for the commitment they had at the end of the 1800s. But the foundation of the Norwegian common sphere was thus the movement of workers several decades earlier. And the first time this was formalized in a political decision in a party, it was at the Labour Party's national meeting in 1892: the upper- and lower-class system must be abolished, state and municipality sytems for one school, free and common to all. I want to invite the assembly back to the time after the last war and the construction of the welfare state, which is essentially the history of the many school reforms. So the unit ball was developed through a long series of laws. I mention in flæng: common folkscule for city and country, nine-year-old elementary school, establishment of the University of Tromsø, the Ottosen Committee, the Steen Committee, new law on adult education, on vocational training, on public institutions, new law on university and scientific colleges, and of course we have to stop at Gro Harlem Brundtland and Gudmund Hernes' many educational reforms. Reform 94 double the number of elephants who took vocational training. So why do I take this review? Yeah, it's to show that there are close links between these reforms and the Workers' Party's values in school issues: the basic principle of equal rights to education, an equal right to adapt training and the principle that everyone should preferably be taught in the same place. This is an important ideological principle that is timeless and that one must never forget. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1534	Now you must not forget the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1537	Aasmund Olavsson Vinje set the standard 150 years ago. The informer and the dictator’s lines that ‘Knowledge shall govern the kingdom and the land’ are equally current today. The government says the same thing, albeit in other words. The government is based on the solidarity of the knowledge society, with emphasis on the needs of forward-looking working life, investment in knowledge in times of crisis and the further development of Norway as a welfare society in the future. The government will prevent further training from taking place at an early date. I have children myself, both in secondary school, youth school, children's school and kindergarten – the whole educational line. My experience is that it's especially the youth ball that now needs a lift. These years are absolutely decisive, and specific measures against non-response need to be inserted here. I can see that this thing is doing, and it's very positive. Among other things, several students are given the opportunity to choose a practical subject. In the fight against non-response, it is also important to consider very simple factors, such as physical activity, diet and good health services. These are factors that we know create a basis for good learning, which, once again, is an important factor in preventing non-response. Today, the fact is that the level of activity falls abruptly during the transition to the youth sphere. Only half of the teenagers are in physical activity for an hour daily, as recommended. My experience is that the gymnastics course in the youth school has been more performance-oriented and character-driven, which can counter the goal of general increase in physical activity. We also know that Norwegian children and young people are among the poorest in Europe when it comes to the consumption of fruit and vegetables. This is why this government's introduction of free schoolfruit on the youth ball and on combined schools is a very good measure for better learning, more well-being and reducing social health differences. I think it is crucial that this arrangement be extended in the long term to the children's ball. Strengthening the school services and the PPT are also key measures to prevent non-response. I know a concrete example where a high school student had to wait a year before he got an hour at PPT, after the school was looking. Delayed help creates a drop-off. This has to be changed. The message is very important for social smoothing. It's positive. Today we have major social inequalities in health in Norway. We see that the health of the population is directly related to the level of education. That's our problem and our challenge. In Norway, an average lifetime of five years is shorter than that of a man with a university education. The foundation of good living is laid early in life. Although home and parents make important premises, they are becoming kindergartens and schools of important arenas to reduce social differences in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1550	So far, I think there has been an exciting debate, but there have been some claims or representations. From the opposition, it appears that this is in a way a debate between the Government and the opposition, but one goes further through the setting, it will be seen that there is a large gap between the opposition parties as well. I am sorry that you feel that there has been no cooperation in working with this message, but I would warn against confusing the word ‘cooperation’ with agreement. The right has e.g. a completely different view from the other bourgeois parties when it comes to the promise of knowledge – at least as far as I can read it. Should it be facilitated in the field of vocational training? Has there been too little theory of study specialization? The right has not come into this much. It might have been interesting if the Right could also comment on whether they are still at the Knowledge Lift. Nor are there any other parties that support the Progress Party that we must have grades in the 5th grade, and the proposal for professional differentiation also finds little support among the other parties. I would also like to distance myself from the fact that this is a good idea that will lead to a strengthening both among the professionally strong and among those who are not so professionally strong. On the contrary, the Bergens test shows that in classes with different levels it will be the teacher and the effort made there, which will have the greatest influence on whether you succeed or not. In classes where the focus is on success, everyone succeeds to a greater degree – both the professionally weak and the professionally strong. Mette Hanekamhaug says that it may seem that the government's goal with national tests is to reduce the level of Norwegian school — at least it was possible to understand her like this. It must be clear that the aim of the government batches of having national samples is to raise the level. When we write that we want to cancel out the differences, of course, it's not about making all the schools bad. I sincerely hope not that the Progress Party communicates outside that the Government's goal of having national tests is to reduce the level of Norwegian school. If you go around and say that, then we have a serious situation. Then there is also reason to doubt whether you really should participate in these tests, and the samples do not have the effect they are supposed to have. We know from PISA that there are large differences within Norwegian school in results. Then we need national tests, and we need to raise everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1563	The Communication Education Line underlines the coherence and importance of investing in education and research, and we will ensure future value creation and capacity for innovation. The right has been a uncompromising champion of quality at all levels of education, and ambitions must be high from the first class. In addition, it is important to ensure a good economic environment for the sector. In 2001, Minister of Education Trond Giske said: there is no connection between theory and non-response. Today we know that there's such a relationship, and we're doing something about it. Vocational training is a recognition of professional qualifications. It is a settlement with the thinking of Reform 94, where all education and education were linked to study competence. The right will have both — and — both more professional correction in programme subjects and more relevant professional theory into the so-called common subjects, combined with a right to build on study competence without an upper age limit. Right will make it easier for students who need it. To Tingelstad Wøien I would say: Today there are many different schemes that are flexible and that are being tested around. We have to stop trying, we have to normalize, and then we have to red tape that students need to adapt to training and a little bit different from what is the broad way, where most go. The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen quoted from the Right Note in the Ratings tab of the 5th grade. From research teams, it is pointed out that the assessment culture of childhood is too weak. Grade 5 characters should therefore be added to, not replaced, current evaluation forms. Then the representative, Wickholm, wondered if the Right had left the promise of knowledge. I can reassure Wickholm that we are very proud of the promise of knowledge. Finally, we got a focus on quality and the student's learning outcomes, so we said goodbye to the Norwegian boarding school. An overall committee concludes on the reform and is implemented by the SV Councils. The Minister of Knowledge has wanted a good deal against apostasy because of school fatigue. On the virtues I've been, it's so that you make sure that everyone gets involved. This is not how we can say that the work in Stortinget is currently working. When the debate on the Education Line is over, all the challenges in the education sector remain there. But the file of the Education Committee is empty. We don't have any more cases to deal with, and I think that's quite alarming. I would therefore like to specifically challenge the two specialist councils in the Ministry of Knowledge to come to Stortinget with a case in which we really address the challenge we face in terms of the pension wave in the education system. New teacher training is important, but more comprehensive measures are needed to balance the loss of skills we get when the most experienced teachers are going to disappear from school. In particular, the challenge is related to real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1584	I will first support the representative Harberg when he says that the White Centre is important. I would just like to point out that it is a regional science centre during establishment in Arendal, together with a knowledge port, which we local, regional and cross-political want to support in the further work. So I think it is very important not to ‘speak down’ Norwegian school. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have experienced that characteristics such as ‘toy school’ have been used from the opposition, especially from the Right and the Advance Party. The characteristic ‘cosy school’ was just used. I think it's awfully important not to talk down Norwegian school, because then it becomes self-fulfilling. A great deal of effort is being made by teachers and other employees to make the school the best possible possible. We're going to back them up, we're going to give them honor and not devalue the work they're doing, with the kind of characteristics. It doesn't do anything better. It probably makes the situation more difficult for those who work there. We're not going to get any further, and we're not going to get any better results like that. The real reason I took the floor here today was the statements of the representative Hanekamhaug. First, the representative refers to the academics. I think the representative ought to be here, for example. The Education Association, where the vast majority of teachers are organized. I feel absolutely sure that the Federation of Education and the vast majority of those with pedagogical competence rejects the Competition School of the Advance Party. I also experienced hearing that the representative Hanekamhaug abused – I would say – the social democrat Nils Arne Egg when she takes his statement, that ‘it is a pedagogical error that one creates losers’, for the income of the Party’s school policy. Of course, not only do losers create, but the school policy of the Progress Party, with a focus on competition, grades far down in primary school and the privatisation of school, is a pedagogical error that creates losers to the greatest extent. No, it's about improving the school along the tracks on which Norwegian school and Norwegian society are built, i.e. equal opportunities. Everyone's going, no one's going to be forgotten, and everyone's going to realize themselves. It is fully possible to achieve, while renewing and improving Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1604	Ibsen has been quoted a few times during this debate. If Ibsen had read the comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party on student support, he might have said, "Peer, you're lying." I'm not going to go that far, because it would have been unparliamentary, but at least I owe it to you to point out that the claim that ‘study support is no longer regulated’ is incorrect in at least two ways. Firstly, our government has adjusted the rates of support in the Loan Fund with the expected price increase in each budget to maintain the purchasing power of the students. Secondly, there is a well-known case that the Bondevik II administration did not make such a regular adjustment when it put it in position. Some representatives from different opposition parties have also challenged the government parties that they will have study support for the freshman year in the United States. I would like to explain the reasoning behind this, why it's not inside. We want more students abroad, but measures to achieve this through student funding need to have quality as the main reason. General support for the freshman year is therefore not a high priority. There is agreement between all countries in the Bologna process of 12 years of schooling, or more, that the first year of higher education in the United States is considered equivalent to the last year of their own higher education. We do not want to provide support on a general basis for non-Norwegian higher education, but it is working in Europe to attract more students to second year studies at higher education institutions in the United States. We will work for Norwegian students to start in the second year of education in the United States, thus receiving the same borrowing burden as in similar education in Norway. In general, providing support for the freshman year may mean five years of support, including one year of delay, for an education that provides only three years of pay in Norway. We also want to expand the possibilities of getting that kind of support for such education in countries other than the United States by developing a quality list. Such a list will increase the number of teaching places that can be supported for the first year, but at the same time it will encourage students to choose high-quality education. The government is also going to follow up on the paper on internationalisation. Part of it is going through possible tools to lower barriers to study in a language other than English. In total, this is a good way to stimulate more students to take foreign education. We know that there is a competence that Norway will benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1615	The representative Tajik stated that the Progress Party was involved in a comment on support and financial incentives to secure more women into higher positions in the academy. We have this comment on page 48 in the event of an incurrency. We are today in a situation where we women are in a majority in higher education. We are in a situation where we women are completely – legally, theoretically and practically – equal men. And we're in a situation where we women have the opportunity, the will and the ability to make their own choices for our lives. As you can see, these choices are often also to take higher education. To believe that men in academia are able to keep women away from higher positions in the future is naive and unfortunately testify to little faith in how strong we women actually are. The representative Gunvor Eldegard of the Workers' Party commended in his speech an action here in Oslo to encourage the gender segregation of secondary school pupils in order to get more women into untraditional occupations. Furthermore, she pointed out that the gender-based labour market is a huge challenge and a problem today. In my opinion, it is a far greater challenge for the state to put itself in the professional choices I or others make. Women's struggle, liberation struggle, gender equality struggle – in my view, this has been an important struggle to ensure that we are allowed to make our own choices for our own lives. I find it difficult to believe that this has been a struggle to ensure that the state decides that everyone is equal, cancels gender differences and governs which professions we choose. The representative, Mr Wickholm, said in his speech that the government parties took a distance from more professional differentiation, and argued for this that the teacher's efforts are the most important to achieve the objectives of precisely professional differentiation. As I pointed out in my first post today, we in the Progress Party manage to have two thoughts in my head at the same time. We can see two solutions at the same time. Then we see that both professional differentiation and better teachers are a very good combination. Furthermore, the representative, Wickholm, pointed out in my report the comments of the government parties when it comes to national tests. I find it a pity that the representative interpreted it this way when I read what he had written. It was by no means my intention to assign the government parties opinions they do not have. The representative de Ruiter chose to say that competition in school – giving students the opportunity to get goals, demands, something to reach, actually wanting to achieve something – will create losers in school. I believe that this argument really falls on its own unfairness, so I see no sense in commenting on it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1634	It is such that in such a debate many things appear, and now I should like to have the ten minutes I had initially. But you have to choose to comment on something. First, there are so many people who have now tried to say that the right bet on the professional subjects is a reduction in the theory, and although it has now been black on before, I will say it again, and clarify it again, no, there is an increased bet on the professional theory piece, quite in line with what the organizations of these disciplines say is important, and what is needed. Then I just have to have a visit to college. The centre party has had that challenge before today. This time the challenge goes to SV. State Council Halvorsen pronounced at a principal's meeting at the National Colleges: ‘The self-esteem of high school deserves a greater place when we talk about education.’ And she said, ‘I would like to make the public high school visible in the Norwegian knowledge flora.’ For the journal Folkhøgskolen, where there is a very nice picture of the Council of State on the front page, the Council of State is quoted on: ‘People’s high school meets some of the strings that are underdeveloped in primary and secondary schools today.’ Then it becomes relevant to repeat the question: why is this not mentioned in the communication that should be a complete message and include the whole school, perhaps especially in terms of apostasy and maturation? Is it conscious, or is it a forgetfulness? If it's an oblivion, then why hasn't one gone into the comment that the opposition parties have about high school? Finally, only a comment on the concept of ‘knowledge’. I fear the trend that when we talk about knowledge, we have to get to the top. Knowledge can be on many levels. Edmund Burke said: ‘There is no knowledge that is not valuable.’ The knowledge we need in society today is the knowledge of implementing what we want to do in the workplace at the different levels. It's not that you have knowledge if you have a master. No, if you have knowledge to master everyday life, you have a knowledge you need. Then we're going to facilitate systems where one can build on that knowledge when one is mature, or has become interested in it. Let's expand the concept of "knowledge" to the different levels we have at school, and clarify that all those levels are valuable to Norwegian society today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1668	The answer from the representative Lien and Hanekamhaug to my question regarding § 8-2 makes me wonder what the Progress Party really means. Hanekamhaug took it up again and talked about professional differentiation in general. The Progress Party has proposed removing the ban on the professional level sharing of classes or basic groups, i.e. the permanent groups. In the answer from Lien, he says this is happening today. Then I wonder, where is it going? Yes, you divide into different groups, into different subjects, by level of skill today, but you keep class with the different skills that each student has. The third paragraph of paragraphs 8 to 2 shall not normally be organised — in classes or groups of basic classes — ‘depending on professional level, gender or ethnicity’. So if you remove this, you can freely differentiate classes by professional level. Therefore, I wonder what should be the basis for such a selection of those classes. Is it such that those who are good in practical-esthetic subjects one should gather in a class, or are those who struggle with Norwegian spelling? Why does the Advancement Party think it is necessary to change this paragraph if a person wants adapted teaching, or a professional differentiation, that we have today? So I ask the Progress Party again: is it this professional adaptation one believes, or is it differentiating into permanent classes according to what one is good at? Finally, Harberg now says something that should be a clarification, and then only the confusion becomes even greater for me. He says that the Right wants an increased bet on the professional theory. So it's not the common subjects he's talking about, but it's the software subjects. Then I wonder, are we going to remove some of the common subjects? Does that mean that we're going to have less Norwegian, English and math, so that we can make room for it? Or does that mean that we're going to have a longer day at school? What is the challenge today is, for example: two years in school and two years in school. There were three years of more professional development in the past. For example, in construction, there are 22 different subjects to be covered in the course of the two years. In TIP – technology and industrial production – there are 59 different subjects to be covered. Then that's what we have to look at, and not what the right is trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1680	First, I want to get into the character debate between Aspaker and Valen. What Snorre Serigstad Valen points out in particular is that the Right says that numerical characters are the most accurate feedback on the professional level in terms of the fifth grade. We have SVs very hard to understand, and we are therefore very disagreeable about that. Then I agree with the representative Tingelstad Wøien, and can thus recommend the Right to write a good and thorough chronicle about the play in the field of professional science, so that we can take this debate further. Because here it's either something that we've understood very well, and we disagree with, or something that all the other parties in the committee have misunderstood very much. So good luck following it, good right-wing representatives. So I'm going to talk a little bit about something that's about to happen, almost like a wake-up or mental change in many municipalities and county councils, which is what the position is called adult education, but which we might rather call lifelong learning. There is no doubt that around many municipalities and county municipalities – and it is soon becoming much more – they are increasingly perceiving the importance of knowledge and competence in people's lives. To ensure that people are connected, actually make life work, and to thrive in everyday life, learning and knowledge are important throughout life. And it must be available where people live. In the next round, they also see this increasingly as an instrument, or – apologies, Councillor Kristin Halvorsen – not as an instrument, but as a societal perspective in the social development work of municipalities and county councils with which they are required to operate. And I think we're going to be very positively surprised about a year when municipalities and county councils start their planning and building law-enforced planning strategy that is about to sit down and figure out what are the most important challenges, and next time how to solve them. I am convinced that very many municipalities and county councils are going to take up knowledge, learning and competence as a main challenge, which is not just to be addressed by the public, but which the whole community is to be invited to address together. That is what is in this concept of planning and building law strategy, and I am absolutely sure that this perspective will benefit municipalities and county municipalities in a few years' time. I really look forward to that. And then this won't be what we do to repair or compensate for something that has gone wrong earlier in the course of education; it will be an essential activity in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1693	Just a few comments on some posts that have been related to my area. First, Tord Lien on the real science strategy. We have just presented a new strategy that is a continuation of what we have had in the past. It is called the «Real Science for the Future, Strategy for the Strengthening of Real Science and Technology 2010–2014», and we are developing it because – and I think that is what the representative and I have in common – it is a long-term goal to raise the level of knowledge in real science and technology at a high international level and to recruit more people to take up real science. It is not an action plan; it is a strategy. We will develop plans in the light of the challenges of this strategy. There are several important pillars in this: there is cooperation, for example: in the context of the National Real-School Forum, it is that it will cover the entire training cycle, that it is a system-based initiative, which is part of the Government's great commitment to framework plans and curricula, to teacher training and development of competences and to research, and that is a knowledge-based initiative in which there is a long-termity. I also want to mention as a novelty in teacher training – which starts now in the autumn – that we have divided the teacher training into two courses with one special course for the youth. That's where we're supposed to train teachers who are good at the subjects, and we're very concerned that as many as possible choose real science in order to be good teachers in mathematics, in science and in other subjects in real science. So we have great faith in the strategy. We're not going to give up trying to get more people to study real science and get good skills in that area. Then to Harberg. The issue we are discussing today is, of course, the whole basis for the plans we have with regard to how we are going to accept new students. The basis is in this big message. We've already started the job of bringing in new students, targeted within the area. We know where there is a need for education and skills, namely in the field of engineering, teaching and health. So I refer to what I said in my article about the relationship between the platform that lies in the big message and the Storting's treatment of it, and the measures that continue on the basis of this treatment, not least the relationship between working life, business and the need there, and the training we provide in the educational institutions. So to Sonja Sjøli and everyone who's been to the colleges. I also refer to previous posts, but you have to trust that the county councils, when they are now responsible for higher education and adult education, can also be responsible for the vocational schools. The funding is the same as it was in 2009. It's been inserted, especially to take care of the colleges, and we're assessing this, as I said. How the criteria for that funding will come into the municipality proposal in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1706	During the debate here, I have experienced some of the greatest things that a teacher can experience. It was meeting a former student, who suddenly sat here in the press room. It's nice to see how it works. If you can say that you are doing well when you are in the press room, it is clear that you are doing well with the person. It has been said earlier in the debate that everyone is going. That's one of the starting points of the so-called common school. Since World War II, we have had many major social-democratic school reforms, but then it turns out that everyone does not come along. The social differences are increasing in school. Research shows that social differences are increasing, and many are falling out, so that these semantic and semantic solutions that are still being talked about – this is always going to happen once in the future – have shown that in practice they are actually creating the very opposite. You've now gone away from calling it one-school. It has become a slightly charged concept. Instead, it's called common school. What you do is you add up to an average student that doesn't exist. Then you run everyone into that system and think that everyone will get even on the other side. Of course, that's not how reality works. This is why we are concerned, for example, with: differentiation, which has been raised here, namely that all students should receive a course adapted to their abilities and talents. It's actually to have respect for the student, it's to have respect for the differences, and it's to get the best out of every student -- not the same in every student, but the best in every student. It's based on a basic belief that we as human beings are different, and thus have different abilities and talents that we're going to be allowed to develop. Thus, mastering and motivation are also developed to learn how to develop. Some of what's been up today is about the private schools, which also represent some of the diversity, of the choices for the students. Whether it is on a religious-ethical basis or on another basis, it represents a very important diversity in this debate. It is then a little special that some of the government parties – not the government, but it says in the party programmes – have proposed to remove the state aid to these schools. If you do that, at least we're guaranteed to get a class break. Then we will get a school fee of approx. NOK 5000 per year. Students, and you're guaranteed that these are going to be kind of elite schools. In the case of private schools, you can at least say that everyone does not come. Then they bring money, not those who choose it because they have an interest in it. Then I just want to make one final point, about something that's been little up today, to the knowledge minister, who's sitting down here. I think it's very important in Norwegian school to get a little touch on the strong detail regulation. Many of the problems we have, for example: in the case of school leave today, assessments, examinations, etc., come in fact because there is a central detailed management that makes it very difficult for the school to find out which guidelines apply. You have to change the way you do things all the time. It takes a lot of energy, and it takes focus away from what should be the school's core task.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1717	The reason why I now take the floor, has to do with the Right and the ambiguity that still prevails about what they mean. I simply refer to the attitude, and it's about theory and professional practice. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right, is involved in the continuation of the system of common curricula in the common subjects and indicates that it provides study competence. Furthermore, it is a civil majority that refers to the Knowledge Charter and that it is important to ensure that both study-preparing programmes and professional subjects are treated as full-fledged courses of education. So the Right has its own comment where they believe that society must take the consequences of the fact that the terrain is not consistent with the map, which means that professional correction alone will not be sufficient to make the professions more practical. Furthermore, the assumption of general study competence at the bottom undermines the possibility of training with a clear focus on professional subjects. Is the right against the granting of study competence to the professions? In this case: Is not the way in which this is built up in the combination of the preparatory and professional subjects not good enough in relation to the promise of knowledge and what was in the last? It's unclear to us. There is little criticism that a skilled worker cannot work when he comes out of the 2 + 2 scheme, i.e. two years of school and two years of company practice. The problem for the company is that he can't theory enough. That's where we in the Workers' Party think, as the case-rapporteur, Truls Wickholm, has shown, that it's hard for us to understand what the Right believes about their theory subjects. And why they're separating layers with the other bourgeois parties here, is also something we're questioning. Nothing has become clearer, unfortunately, during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1730	There are two themes that I want to follow up a little bit. One is real science. It is good that it was mentioned by the Council of State this last round. At the same time, I would like to see a little bit more taken into account in that particular area. In Norway, we have top-notch gymnasiums and a number of such areas of activity, but in real science, we do not have anything similar. In the vote, the progress party has made provision for one to have had, for example: four national upper secondary schools focused on real subjects, precisely in order to strengthen this subject. It is very relevant in relation to the debate that is popular now, where the Minister of Economic Affairs puts in place consultations with various people on what we should live on after the oil. That debate should focus on what we will live on in the future together with oil and gas, for at that time it should not be over yet, although the party of the Council of State has said that one should steer young people away from petroleum-oriented education. When one sees that Norway has six physical environments that are considered to be internationally heavy, but that several of them have problems recruiting nationally, when we see that the petroleum training in Stavanger at doctoral level has more than 90 p.p., almost 95 p.p., foreign students, there should be a warning about how we can build this competence in Norway – we must not only train, but also ensure that Nordics are more involved than now, so that one maintains their competence at home. It is not only important to increase the value creation of oil and gas over the next ten years, because it should be an objective not to wind it up, but also in relation to the renewable effort that everyone agrees to build on what the petroleum industry has started, I would like there to be a more concrete special effort in the real world. So to the representative of Tajik in terms of US studies. I've taken my master's degree in the United States. I don't understand the logic when one says that one has to go the first year in Norway to then take the next three years of the Bachelor's degree in the United States, instead of one can take first to fourth years in the United States. For the paper you end up with, which you will deliver to the employer when applying, the same is true if you have taken all four years over there, or if you have to take the first one here and the next three there. There's no more quality of education in the diploma you get in the end. What one does, however, by not including the first year of study funding, is to say that the poorest students don't afford to start over there, while people with a wealthy family can start right at Harvard and Berkeley. – You can shake your head as much as you like, representative, but I have experience in this, my own life experience. What I also noticed was that having gone International Baccalaureate, which I have, I got credit for over there. If I had brought Norwegian exam papers from high school, I would not have received anything. So falling down on the U.S. Bachelor's degree or freshman year when you don't get any special credit for your own Norwegian high school is not very good in this context. I wish Freshman also had student support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1743	The fact that the Progress Party is against equality may not be a new thing. The representative, Hanekamhaug, talked about making his own choices. The representative may not have listened to what I said, for one of the most important things in my post was that people should have real choices. Because it's actually like today that theoretically you can choose to be a plumber if you're a girl, and if you're a girl, you can choose a nurse. But there are some obstacles in the way, I see. Therefore, I say that it is so unlikely to take care of those who dare to choose untraditionally, and it was the project in the Municipality of Oslo that they took care of those who chose untraditionally. Because if you choose a subject where you're the only good or the only girl, it can actually be lonely. Then it's good that some people have thought about the possibility of this, and that one builds an environment around them. So I'm talking about better advice, and that's because people are going to have more possibilities. Better consultation and more role models will open up more opportunities for young people. That's what matters. We know that choosing a profession takes place through the first influence of parents, second own experiences and third role models. We must ensure that young people have more role models. It's not about the state deciding, it's about multiple ways to be open. When TV 2 engaged Storm Weather Center, which had only girls as meteorologists, there were many more girls who applied for the meteorology study. It's about identification, it's about role models. For me, it's about giving our youth greater freedom of choice when it comes to the profession, and actually giving them twice as many opportunities, regardless of whether you're good or girl.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1750	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1753	A lot of questions have now been asked that could have been raised during the committee's proceedings, but I find that this was not necessary. For the Right, it's not a goal to have a competent plumber. That is the essence of the Right proposal. This means that you should later have the right — without an upper age limit — to build on that study competence, or through the Y-way or by other means, or through real competence. But we are looking to clear up spaces in the common subjects of theory that are more professionally relevant, in order to achieve the greatest degree of professional correction and path for more professional theory, as the trade unions and those we have met have actually addressed. Then I just notice that all the proposals that the red-greens have launched in the media, etc., are still not present in the setting, and I understand that there is no need to explain them here either. So to the vote: the right is going to vote for the proposal No. 29-32, vote against the proposal No. 33 and 34, but vote in favour of proposal No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1764	I sat and wondered what the principals who rebelled through the newspaper article thought about today's debate today. Has the Storting really understood the everyday life with which they struggle and on which they have challenged both the Council of State and the Storing? I think they may not have received the answers they want, that they are still left with the framework conditions that make it impossible to achieve the objectives that this enlargement wants for education, unfortunately. So people would have to call it a black paint of Norwegian school, but I call it an understanding of the situation that very many principals put the word on in Norwegian school today. Then I think it's quite bold of the representative Tajik to criticize the Christian People's Party and the Left especially in relation to student funding. Where did 11 months of study funding go? It's been asked by students all over the country, the three red-green parties didn't even bucket into Soria Moria. So here I think you should go a little bit quieter in the doors than what you do. Then I want to congratulate Freddy de Ruiter on holding such a long school post without mentioning privatisation more than once. I don't think I've ever heard that before. Now I see that he has drawn himself again, so I am afraid that it is going, but let me have congratulated him yet for so long! Then I'm going to register that the national colleges are forgotten, and that you don't want them in this context. I think that's sad. And when we've talked so much about the dropout, we know that many of those who have fallen out of high school have used up their rights. They may be 18-19 years old, and the Government will maintain the 25-year limit before they can be allowed to be reinstated in the educational cycle. Then I'm starting to wonder if you really mean what you're saying about having a closer follow-up for those who are out of school. I don't think it's worth having one of those kind of boundaries, when we know at the same time that we need every single person that we can manage to get through the education, and not least every person who comes through the education needs it. So I would like to support the proposals No. 26 and 27. The first is to change the age limit for those who are under 25 but who have used up their right, and the second is 11 months of study funding. And then we shall vote in favour of proposal No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1775	The representative of Hadia Tajik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1778	I am glad that the representative Solvik-Olsen has taken training abroad, and I hope he got something out of it. But while he shares anecdotal evidence of quality in education, I point out that all countries in the Bologna process of twelve years of schooling or more agree that the first year of higher education in the United States is considered equivalent to the last year of their own higher education. This applies to all the major countries, such as France, Spain, Germany, Italy, etc. The Eastern European Bologna countries, with the former Russian system, have greater difficulties. We in the government parties want more students to take education abroad, and we want to facilitate it, both by reviewing how to lower language barriers, and also by working long-term on how Norwegian students get access to good foreign student institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1786	I don't think I like the representative Eriksen because I don't want to mention private schools anymore, because it's clear that school policy is very much about social development, and then it's a private versus public dimension in that way. But I feel that we represent the government parties, and the Christian People's Party is very much in agreement; we also have a private school settlement in that way. So I really don't feel that there's the big disagreement between us there. So it's focused on that with differences. In particular, the Progress Party has claimed that today’s school reproduces differences. Yeah, we admit it. We recognize that there is no quick fix either. But we probably think that one of the best ways to prevent major differences from developing and that the school reproduces differences is early effort. It is also interesting to see Norway from an international perspective in terms of differences. While in Norway, which has a relatively uniform school, there are considerable differences within schools, there is a very different trajectory abroad, namely that there are very large differences between schools, particularly in those countries with which the representatives of the Progress Party like to compare, where it is very much the wallet of parents who control the opportunities of children and young people. What I think it's about, is early effort, more focus on writing and reading training and more individual follow-up. We have never claimed that one should not have individual follow-up, that one should not look at the opportunities and different assumptions of individual students and individual children and young people. We don't want everyone to be the same. We also recognize that not everyone will get out of school the same way. It's never been a goal and it's never going to be a goal, even if someone wants to claim it. Finally, private alternatives: the progressing party is very concerned about how private alternatives can be expensive if a cutter supports someone, as was said here. But then I think it's very strange that the Progress Party wants the private schools to be able to make a profit. Then I think it is very strange that the Progress Party also has in its programme that it should not be grateful for the specialities of private schools. What will that lead to? At least that won't make it cheaper to go to private schools. This will at least not lead to a greater chance for those who have little to take advantage of the private options. So this is where the Progress Party cuts itself in the tail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1799	The representative Aspaker tried to clarify what Right thought, and the main point was that society didn't need study-competent plumbers. But no one is training a plumber, who has study competence after going through the Norwegian education system. If you are to have a study qualification, you must choose to take another year after taking a professional test. So that's how the system works. It might seem like the Right is confused about how this works. I also think it is strange that the right hand through this now seems to be taking away students who choose a profession, the opportunity to get proper post-secondary education, at least in a very sensible way, because as it is today, there are two years in high school with professional theory, but also with a common subject. Having these common subjects at the bottom makes it possible to gain study competence in one year and to choose to start at a university or college. If you remove many of these subjects, and turn them into purely professional theory, which I now realize will be right, it will mean that you will have an even greater need to build on afterwards, if you don't want to do what I also realize is that the Right is concerned about, that is, reducing the requirement of competence in order to gain study competence. Somewhere in between, you have to find the answer. It is precisely this that makes me so amazed at what the Right really means, also because – as I mentioned in my reply – when the Right was responsible and presented Culture for learning, one went away from the concrete curricula, one went over to a more targeted school, while now taking the order for industry-driven training courses – and that's kind of not the way. It may seem that the Right has been on a tour of different companies and listened to what is best right there, and collected a number of suggestions. At least I can't see the direction and the whole of the right now suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1806	Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1809	We are going to vote in favour of the proposal No. 31 and 32 presented today. With regard to the real subjects, I thank the Council of State for her commitment, and I note that both the Council of State and I – and probably many others – have had far too little time to talk about the real subjects. So we would rather be invited to an interpellation debate over Easter. So I was in my first post that ideology was perhaps less central in this debate than it has often been before. I have noticed that the representative de Ruiter has done what he can to track off the good line we were on, and I remind you once again that the countries that manage to keep the ideology out of school are the countries that succeed best. We have said many fine words about knowledge today. I remember once again about Ibsen, who said that action counts several times more than words.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1820	Yes, the President would like to join the last at the end of the debate, but there are still speakers who have signed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1823	I have to say that it is quite amazing to listen to the first posts of the Ruiters and the interpretation he has of the School Policy of the Advance Party. Now we've had a common school for many years, and the result is that there are still students leaving school without being able to read or write. The fact that the representative then stands and defends this school, which in fact all parties agree to leave, is a mystery to me. In the Education Line, we today agree on the importance of actually making demands for the students. It has appeared in many more reports that we in Norway are making too small demands on our students. We have also come to the conclusion that it is important to provide constructive and good — and honest — feedback during schooling, precisely in order to take action against those who need a little extra help. Therefore, the party of progress will also have an assessment of pupils between each class step to ensure that the students have received what they are going to do during the class stage, so that action can be taken. But de Ruiter took quite nicely into his second post again, even though he used completely different words. In fact, he was involved in and supported the policy of the Progress Party – and of all the parties here today – with regard to the assessment and importance of early action. That's what we're all saying, and then it's – I just have to repeat it – incredible that it's possible to use those expressions that came from him. So it was about biting yourself in the tail. I actually think a lot of people do that in this room – not least the representative de Ruiter himself. To Eldegard, I would like to say that I think that the Progress Party will not be included in the comment – which we know is an incursion – I would just like to remind you that for the Progress Party, it is quite far from being the state that interferes with the choices people make in terms of education. Today, everything is right for us to take all kinds of education, whether we are her or he. We have full confidence that that choice is the Norwegian population’s ability to make — although it is obvious that there are others who do not have that confidence in their own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1836	Only a few comments at the end of the debate, which actually show that there is a broad consensus on many things contained in this educational message — for example: the entire reverse operation, which has been in the process of thinking about early work, basic skills, thinking about more practical organisation of secondary education, and, in the case of professional education, pointing out how incredibly important it is that we get the most out of high school education, and how we must be up to date in relation to the educational needs of the future when we plan higher education and university capacity. What I think is of a little shivering in the debate is rather a little bit of a little bit of acid in the committee – whether I can allow myself to say it. But I think maybe a fresh Easter break can fix that. Because it's true, as the representative Tord Lien says, that even though there are some references to a little bit more ideological debates, it's really remarkable how little the right side runs on privatisation and ranking. There are some kind of half-hearted attempts on grades in the fifth grade, but it's not with glow they're running. Of course, it's because there's no professional reason why there's any good work in school. Then there's someone who's asked why not the national colleges were part of this. I think at least I have the explanation for it: this is where we've been concerned about what combines work and education – that is, how we're going to make sure that as many people as possible find a place in the world of work, that we get the relevant fill and competence all the way, and that as much as possible we can do secondary education. But the primary school is maybe the primary school you have in education -- it's about all the other things that aren't so easily measurable, but that's incredibly important for knowledge and education, and that might have some other dimensions inside. But that's also the way that many of those who are students in high school have just that year as a year when it's possible to think a little bit about and figure out what you really want to go on with. So it's perfectly obvious that high school is involved in a personal maturation process. Finally, it is almost impossible to understand what the Right really means when it comes to professional subjects and curricula. They may not have thought about the way in which students who start professionally but who change their mind should be able to go further and take study skills. I'd like to get back to that. When it comes to the rights of young people to education — including higher education — that Dagrun Eriksen has been in for many times, we have to balance it both with getting people through a race of higher education — it's not like you only have the right to three years, but you have the right to five years before you turn 24, and that adults should have the opportunity to fill up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1851	I would like to thank the representative Tajik for giving a clear explanation to both the NHO, ANSA and others who actually see a value of having more than today studying in, for example. The United States, Russia and Brazil, for what the Workers' Party has announced in this debate, is almost a fundamental resistance to supporting the Freshman Year in these countries, but they are hiding behind other countries' positions. But for a government that likes to go alone in foreign policy in some areas, this should also be an area where one separates itself from the others to give Norwegian students the best possible offer. I had hoped for a logical reasoning from the representative as to why it makes sense not to support the freshman year in the United States. Unfortunately, I didn't. The representative must also call my experiences anecdotes, but they reflect the experience of different systems that meet. There I record that the representative is unable to demonstrate that my experiences or anecdotes were incorrect in relation to the system. The point is that I think it's a value for people to travel into the big world, experience cultures, get different impulses, different kinds of knowledge, and for my own part, who have studied social economy, I'm very happy I didn't get into the alignment that social economists from the Blind came into. But that's what's only common in this government, and that's why foreign impulses are not so desirable. But anyway, what's at the heart of this is that it's more attractive for a student to travel abroad and get a four-year run at a university than to have to start a year in Norway for political reasons, where you don't have the heart present, and where you just see it as a detour, so that you can travel out for three years in the world. So the representative Tajik says that it is because the freshman year in the United States is not considered to be more than high school — the 12th year — in Norway. Yes, the representative would like to think so, but then the question is, does she consider that the bachelor's degree from the United States is a year worse than a bachelor's degree from Norway? If you think so, the question is, why do we always finance people who take a bachelor's degree abroad, or in the United States, at all, if they come home with poorer quality? If you think it's as good, there must be something wrong with Norwegian universities if you can come as a freshman in the United States and really only be on the twelfth year in Norway, but during the sophomore, junior and senior years come up at the same level as a Bachelor's degree in Norway. Because that's what's the point here. When you allow people to study in the United States and they get a Bachelor's degree, which gives you proof of what you've done, that's the stamp, that's what counts, that's what you show the employer. You do not refer this to the employer, and then you come with one year of study competence from Norway that you received first. That's what's important here: how did you get to that bachelor degree? If you actually motivate more people to go to the United States to study and let them get the entire four-year period there, with funding from Norway, it must be the best thing if the goal is actually to get more people to travel abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1862	Aksel Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1865	Let me also finish with folk colleges, almost as an invitation to the opposition that the next time we meet verbally and in writing to duel in that way, I think we should definitely include some lines of folk high school. It is a great activity – among other things. last reasoned by the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen. In return, I think the Advance Party and the Right should avoid writing the comment they write on page 39 against the study federations, because what is beautiful and beautiful about the activity at the People's College is precisely the activity that the study federations are doing, and that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not want anything of – on page 39.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1872	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3. Case No. 4 is exposed. [[Votation, see pages 2697 and 2700]] At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1903	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. There are two major issues that have been dealt with in a short time. One relates to a capital increase in SAS, and the other relates to a convertible bond loan. SAS is a large company that has undoubtedly been and is in a difficult situation. About a year ago, a capital increase of SEK 6 billion was made. The starting point at that time was that the capital increase would give the company a better starting point for implementing the necessary changes through Core SAS, in order to bring the company back into a profitability phase. However, 2009 proved to be a more demanding year than initially assumed – first a far more demanding market as a result of the financial crisis and a more demanding process of restructuring and cost cutting through Core SAS. When, once again, the SAS Board of Directors proposes to the shareholders of the company, only one year after the last capital increase, that an increase in the company's equity of approximately SEK 5 billion be carried out through a preferential right issue, it is a demanding assessment that needs to be carried out, and there are some points that need to be highlighted separately. Firstly, it is extremely important, I think, that the state should express itself as a long-term and industrial owner, even if it is demanding. We should be predictable through the ownership we have to exercise. We also have to do what we think is best to ensure the values that are already in the company. There's a lot of what's just been done in these two cases. Strict requirements have been imposed and led to significant cost savings being made by the company. It is underlined that the follow-up to the Core SAS strategy is being followed, and it has also been considered that the company should be given financial flexibility. This is the starting point for meeting the challenges of the company and for once again being able to operate commercially soundly within a given framework. But if you want to do that, it is necessary that the assumptions in the case are actually followed up. Fresh capital in the company is necessary to make the proposed structural grips. The bond lending facility is important for the financial flexibility that the company so desperately needs. I think a third moment is important. It is that the owners who have been with the company for a long time act together as far as practicable. There I am a little surprised that the committee shares the position, as it should be of common interest for existing owners to handle the company strategically equally. A combined ownership behind a large and demanding reverse operation is, in my opinion, a matter of course of utmost importance. Norway is also, as you can see, a small owner of the company with 14.3 p.m. Then to the individual items. The capital increase: As the company is currently positioned, it is absolutely necessary. Profit before tax in 2009 was minus NOK 3.4 billion. By the end of 2009, the available financial resources were DKK 8 billion, or 18 pst. of expected turnover in the company. At the same time, in December 2009, the company was downgraded due to the financial situation. The reason for the downgrading is initially a weak balance. This gives rise to a clear need for new equity to meet the challenges facing the company. If we, as owners of the company, continue with a weak balance and cost-intensive restructuring needs, there is only one way, in my opinion, and that is the wrong way. It is therefore absolutely necessary to have an active approach from the owner, too, taking into account the requirements or needs of the managed demand. In my opinion, something else will be passivity. Because the company is in a very demanding and difficult situation, it is absolutely necessary that we implement the arrangements and not put ourselves in a passive position, as it will obviously lead to a development in the company that is not advisable. Providing the Governing Board with the possibility to raise a long-term refinancing of the existing bond loan scheme is the basis for and a prerequisite for the proposed capital increase. That the refinancing of existing debt securities is proposed through convertible bond loans of up to SEK 2 billion is, as the company is now positioned, a good arrangement. The scheme will provide the company with greater financial flexibility, which is absolutely necessary from the point of view of the company. That our ownership through the convertible bond loan scheme may be reduced, if fully used, from 14.3 pst. To about 12,3 p.m., in my opinion, is of minor importance. What is of great importance, and which should be of such interest, is that the values of the company are actually given the opportunity to develop. So there are business considerations that make the majority say yes to capital expansion and yes to convertible bond loans. In addition, there is a clear requirement for savings measures in the company. There are absolutely necessary savings measures that have been proposed and required, and there are absolutely necessary capital managements in the company that are now being carried out. To approach a conclusion: I am a little surprised by the Right Party and the Advance Party, which does not support the capital expansion. That is the very basis for the company to return to a business position based on what is available in the case. As far as sales are concerned, I would like to stress that the majority is not opposed to a sale, in whole or in part, by the company. On the contrary, we're positive that it's being evaluated. But giving a sales authorisation now is a strong signal to start a sales process at a time when the company really does not need that kind of attention. Finally, it's about taking responsibility for a big and important company. It is about maintaining values and at the same time laying a ownership basis for the company to operate again within a commercially sound framework. That's what I think the majority in their position does by both saying yes to convertible bond loans and saying yes to the capital expansion. Both are essential to enable the company to operate again within a commercially sound framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1934	Thank you for putting me in line first. The Chairman of the Committee says that the active approach of the owners is to make the Governing Board demand when they come and ask for money. I'd rather say it's the reverse that the owners have to make demands on the board. My question is that the chairman of the committee says that he is amazed that we do not understand that one has to think strategically equally in the different countries. But that's exactly what we do when we give the sales authorisation. The Committee notes that the Swedish Government has requested a mandate from the Riksdag to reduce its ownership of SAS. We propose the same sales authorisation. What is the reason why the chairman of the committee believes this to be wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1943	First of all, I must stress that in this matter there have been significant demands on the board. The Board of Directors, the management of the company and the employees of the company have been very demanding that they carry out significant cost reductions in the context of the capital expansion and the bond lending system. Then I believe that the owner and those who exercise ownership of the Norwegian State can assess any sales, any restructuring and any positioning with other owners. But I believe it is important that we act together, together with the Swedish and Danish states, and also with the Wallenberg Group, who has been a significant owner in the company. Everything else will be unwise. What I think is a little strange from the Right and the Advance Party's side is that they don't put it as a prerequisite for how to deal with ownership in the future. The Right and Advance Party say that it is not entirely necessary for the Norwegian state to act in the same way as the Swedish and Danish states.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1952	It went about that. one year and one week between these two issues of issue in SAS. First it was NOK 6 billion, this time it's NOK 5 billion. The question many people are asking is, how many times are we going to get these things on the table in this room? One of the arguments used to continue pumping money into SAS is to maintain the route offer in Norway. I believe every one of us who is here knows that today's system works according to both the principle of tendering and the principle of negative tenders and works in an excellent way. There are probably a lot of airlines that would like to offer it. My question to the representative is as follows: To what extent does the representative believe that one would not be able to maintain the route offer in Norway with an airline other than SAS?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1961	I think there is good reason to say that such competition has developed, there are opportunities to maintain a good route offer in Norway on what is within the concept of competition. I also think that today's owners are assessing that exact relationship. What I think is important in this case is that we actually give it the capital injection now, precisely in the belief and hope that the company will be able to operate again within a commercially sound framework, and that the values that lie there will not be lost. I think the Progress Party's approach to the matter – saying no to capital expansion – is to say yes to the fact that the values in that company are actually being exposed to a weathering process, which is becoming stronger and stronger every day, as the company is in a very difficult and demanding situation, which will once again go beyond the company's overall offer and the possibility to maintain a good offer for those who use the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1966	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e1969	First of all, I would like to address the proposal made by the Progress Party and the Right in the vote. I would also like to inform you, so that there is no doubt about it, that the Progress Party is voting against the issue in the company, so it will be easier to deal with voting later this evening. I would like to start by commenting on a little of what the committee's chairman had to say and criticise the fact that the Progress Party and the Right are outside; that it was a prerequisite for entering a convertible loan, that Sweden and Denmark were also involved. The background for that is, of course, that we actually want to have this opportunity, so that you can go out into the market and get a convertible loan, in order to be able to reduce the holding in SAS in the long term. It is one of the main reasons for that case. It's no more dramatic than that. Before this matter came to the table, it was approx. a year and a week ago the issue case in SAS. At that time, 6 billion Swedish kroner were needed. The current Minister of Economic Affairs, Sylvia Brustad, said yes to this. She used, among other things, as an argument that this money had to be put in place to get the company right. Yes, we followed debates up to several places where it was shown that this time it was thought that when this money was brought into the company, it was possible to get a profitable company out of SAS. One year and three weeks later, the current Minister of Industry presented a case, for the company now needed new funds. The Norwegian State’s contribution was 575 million. kr. This time I actually want to pay tribute to the Minister of Industry for the fact that the Minister of Industry at least went in and made some demands in connection with that process. It was obvious that what had been done in the past was not enough, as suggested by both Stortinget and others, to get the company to the right place. So the big question is, is this enough to get this company right? We saw the deficit that the company presented at about the same time as the issue matter came. We have seen a legal case not long ago with the result that this company has to pay 175 million. kr – if I remember the number correctly, at least well over 100 million. kr – to one of their competitors for industrial espionage. There may also be a risk that you will not be able to fully meet the savings packages that you have created. Despite the package presented in relation to, among others: employees, we know that wage negotiations will continue in the future. It has also been used as an argument that we must be aware of the fact that both Sweden and Denmark are also involved. I'm not surprised that Sweden and Denmark are in. Let us look at the structure of the company and how the company is organised: The head office of SAS is located in Sweden. A number of jobs related to administration and a number of support functions are located in Sweden. I am not surprised that Sweden wants it to continue. Let's look at Denmark. The core activities at Kastrup, the main aerodrome in Denmark, are just operating around the international flights to SAS. With all the thousands of employees inside the picture there, I am also not surprised that Denmark is involved. Then you also use the argument that the Wallenberg family and the fund are also involved. It's a good thing they're there, too. But the question is, have we come so far that up to several of the owners now feel that we take it, then we have to take it, because the table catches? I'm afraid we've come to that punk. Furthermore, I am afraid that what is being entered now may not be sufficient. I think there is every reason to fear – at least when you hear a part of what the analysts have said about the company – that it is most likely that it will have to be harder to make this company more competitive. Then it remains to be seen whether it is a reasonable use of Norwegian taxpayers' money to pump more money into this company. Then, in his intervention, the chairman of the committee came up with some criticism of the Progress Party because this time we wouldn't be there. It should not be so surprising, because last year, too, the Progress Party would not be involved in raising capital. We said that now enough of the taxpayers' money has been spent on one specific airline in aviation, while there are other competing companies that are running high profits, trying to build up financially to renew their fleet. So we're using this tax money to subsidize, or at least go into the owner's side – it's not subsidising, I'm going to withdraw it – with the further capitalization of a company we own 14.3 pst. i. But it must seem strange that the company, which then has hundreds of millions in profit, has to contribute to the creation of capital by another company, so that it can use this money to outsell them. This is a remarkable way to run the store. I think a lot of us also remember what happened then, among other things. Color Air tried to establish itself in Norway. Then other companies lowered their prices, including SAS, to help out competition this company. After the company ended, you could get the impression – when you look at the price rental – that the prices went up again. There is a lot that could have been said in this case, among other things. Norway, Sweden and Denmark should have assembled at a much earlier stage to sell themselves out of the company. Lufthansa said earlier that one might be interested, but that was a long time earlier. I think maybe the train has left, at least this time. But we do not receive a bid for the shares in this company until we at least indicate that we can be willing to sell them. It's used to criticise both the undersigned and others who say we want to sell, that no one wants to buy it. The first thing you have to do in this respect is at least signal that such a will is present. It has not yet come. Therefore, it is strange that some time after this issue came, one was asked if one could be willing to sell out. So you say, no, now we're going to get the company back on track, and then it'll be economically reasonable to sit and wait to capitalize it. Then it goes for a little while, and then an urgent matter comes to the Storting about the convertible loan. It is alarming in itself the time that Stortinget got to deal with this matter, with the short deadlines. But then it was all of a sudden okay that if we do it as a convertible loan, you can at least be willing to go down on the holding, from 14.3 to 12.3 pst. At least it makes sense to look at it, but as I said, the Progress Party does not want to participate in the issue. We believe that it is wrong to use the money – hard tax money that could have been used for other purposes in this country. Furthermore, the Progress Party wants to vote in favour of the convertible loan, but we also have another proposal that means that we want a further sale of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2005	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2010	We have heard on repeated occasions the approach of the Progress Party to how an active ownership should be exercised, so it does not surprise me that they have this insight into this matter. For as I have understood the Progress Party – and insofar as also the representative Nesvik on a number of occasions – the State is initially to act as a mere stock speculator, where one puts money into companies that can make a return, and withdraws it if there is a risk that something needs to be done in order for the companies to develop. This is followed up in a good way by the Progress Party's approach to this matter. But what I'm questioning about is that the Progress Party in this case – through its comments – calls for the owners to go in and test the board to those degrees. They show, among other things: that the owners have been passive in relation to measures against negative developments, etc. Who is responsible for this matter – is it the board of directors, or is it the owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2018	Firstly, it is sad to see that the representative of Aasland has not read the suspension of the ownership notice, where the Progress Party explains how to exercise the ownership position in different ways in different types of companies. SAS is an airline in which the State has no ability to influence the provision of services, jobs, etc. So it's a purely financial position. When this financial position on the ownership side causes taxpayers' money to be pumped into this company over and over again, it is quite obvious that they have not done their job. Therefore, the position of the Progress Party is that the State which owns must sell its positions. A clearer signal to the members of the Management Board and to the other owners may not, in fact, be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2025	We are aware that the Progress Party does not want to support the state's participation in the capital increase in SAS AB, as the proposition states. The Progress Party even considers that the State should liquidate its ownership of SAS. Government parties, on the other hand, are concerned that the State should be an active, long-term and predictable owner. We are also committed to providing the basis for the good maintenance of the grid throughout Norway and Scandinavia. In this context, attention is drawn to the fact that rural and transport policy considerations are well taken into account. My question to the representative Nesvik is therefore: is it that the Progress Party is not committed to ensuring the basis for maintaining the grid throughout Norway, in particular in the districts and in Scandinavia, as the Progress Party will liquidate its ownership of SAS?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2032	The answer is obvious: the representative may not have read the case or heard the change in line between the undersigned and the chairperson of the committee, where the chairperson of the committee also stated that with regard to the grid, this matter has nothing to do with it. It is possible that the Centre Party is trying to involve it in this matter, but that is not the case – this is about an issue and a convertible loan – purely commercial basis. It has nothing to do with the route offer at all. There will be others who come into the picture if this company shuts down routes, which they actually do all the time. This company also changes its route offer at any time, without the representative from the centre party having anything she should have said in that case. This concerns the use of taxpayers’ money into one carrier to finance competition against other carriers. The Progress Party does not believe that this should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2039	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2042	The right-hand side is not going to participate in the SAS issue this time. The situation in the company has evolved from bad to worse over the past few years. Last year’s issue, which few assumptions were met or implemented, neither in the case of performance expectations nor cost reductions, provides no confidence in getting something better at this time. In 2009, it was considered that the company’s strategies were realistic and that the return would become marketable. It was unattainable. Now the company, the board and the same consultants believe the same thing as a year ago. Unfortunately, there is little reason to believe that this will happen, and it will be wrong to continue to invest public funds in a company with such a low level of compliance. Both the board, management and owners have to bear a significant responsibility for collecting such significant amounts of taxpayers’ money each year – management and the board because they have not been able to implement them, and owners through ownership exercise because they have not made clear demands to the board of directors to meet the objectives agreed upon. It is a truth with significant modifications that the international aviation industry has been hit by a crisis. Several airlines are making progress, and there is a lot of evidence that other companies are adapting to market changes, adapting to competition and adapting to new cost images in a completely different way than SAS – with its state ownership in three different countries and with many cultures – can do. It turns out that the operating deficit has developed without intervention from neither the owner nor the board. It's talkative when the $500 million-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr almost beaches and only so far in place shortly before Stortinget will deal with the matter – and to an even greater extent that no authority was given to take up the bond loan with convertible bonds when the original proposition was sent to Stortinget, but had to come down with an additional proposition. As the Chairman of the Committee has stated, this was handled by the Committee in a timely manner. There is reason to question whether such a type of ownership over time also helps to weaken a company by not acting quickly enough, and that the interaction between the three countries is not good enough to be able to own a modern airline in hard international competition the world over 24 hours a day. It is my opinion that it is unsustainable to continue the use of money in the company. The company needs to find other market solutions that do not involve additional contributions from the State – contributions that can also be easily perceived as distorting or capable of maintaining a low price level over time, which is unsustainable. The chairperson of the Committee calls it confusion when you do not want to participate in this type of issue. But I think that with more market solutions one will counteract the confusion. Then there will be a completely different pressure and a stronger focus on carrying out painful cost cuts and rationalizations, where all the implicated must participate. Borrowing to the state honey pot is not always as beneficial. As will be seen in the setting, the right has no objection to any reduction in the state's ownership by using a convertible bond loan, and we support it. However, there is reason to note that the Government and Government parties, in Prop. 79 S, insisted that the state holding should remain unchanged. So in a few days, the distress forced the company and the owners to change their principal position on this with dilution and that one was previously against sale – now it is ok. But as I said, we don't have anything against it. I just want to remind you that the convertible bonds work in such a way that when the company is doing well, the lenders get the benefit. When things go bad, the government's in charge. So the government in the proposition – and the government parties join in the setting – says that one should be included in a larger industrial constellation, or that one can imagine selling all or part of the state's shareholding in SAS, even if it is not heard quite like this from the posts we have heard here today. If you really wanted this and really wanted to exercise a powerful and active ownership, I think the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party on sales, sales authorisation, gives the opportunity to exercise such a kind of ownership. It is also in line with what the Swedish government has asked the Riksdagen for, and what the Danish government has signaled. This gives the government an opportunity to act quickly and professionally, and it's just maybe a few of the characteristics that this ownership so far has not had. Finally, some words about Onions. This autonomous part of SAS represents important infrastructure for District Norway. We just heard about that in a line from the Center Party. I expect that this is what the government party is thinking about when they write a couple of places in the vote that, in a possible future sale – which they will not now give authority to – we need to take into account regional policy and transport policy considerations. Unøe is a company with sound operation, good performance, probably better underlying operations than the results show, given a better cost structure. It turns out that the Committee here is united in its concern for this company, and not least for the offer it can offer in the districts. If that is the case, I hope that the government parties and the government council through an active ownership, as it is often called, will consider taking up and looking at separating this company. It could strengthen the remaining SAS, it could also strengthen the regional and transport considerations in Norway, and not least it would also mean much to the national interests at home. In SAS cooperation, Swedish and Danish interests have often been strongly preferred. I think the time has come to leave the baffled twists, long procedures and wait and see attitudes. Now the situation calls for action. The Ministry has a man of action as the Council of State. We have proposed giving him such powers as the men of action need. It's open to vote for it. I also deal with the proposals that we have made, alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2068	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2073	I think I can stress to the representative Fleet that if it were time to sell all or part of the company, I think we agree that the committee would facilitate a quick procedure, if necessary. I would also like to stress that there is a difference between – let me say – giving a sales authorisation and making a convertible loan arrangement. But since I see the representative Fleet as a very knowledgeable person in the business field, I want him to expand on this with the capital expansion and the capital injection in the company. Does the representative Pleatten believe that the company can retain the values of the company today without capital injection while being attractive to any future buyers or partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2080	I must first thank you for the exceedingly strong praise of my qualifications. I think maybe it's taking a little bit of a hard time. But yes, in fact, I believe that it is possible and would have been possible with other market solutions quite cleverly – for example. a partial sale, e.g. by: a larger loan. It would cost something more in interest, but it would put a much stronger pressure on the company and their employees to make an effort to get the company on foot. History shows me so far that I'm right about this. The last time you stood here and said the exact same thing, and evolution is negative. I think we have to let market forces get in a completely different way. I am absolutely convinced that there are a lot of investors out there who see opportunities in this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2087	It's kind of the same question that the previous replicator raised. Given the situation we're in, is there any question of having a share issue or not? I would like the representative Fleet to say a little if he believes it is possible in today's situation to value the country's values in the company, if they say no to the issue today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2092	I also have to say to this interpellant that it is nice to hear that I am given such knowledge of the private investor market. But yes, I think so. There are examples, many examples of making money in international aviation, of making companies pay, of getting a return on capital. What the representative Holmelid says is that you really haven't made any assessments of whether this was something you should be doing or not on the red-green side. You've just said that we have no other ideas, we just have to do this, we're in an emergency. It's too defensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2097	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2101	There are two important things on the map today. Both matters relate to SAS, where the Norwegian State owns 14.3 p.m. of the axes. The Swedish state owns 14.3 pst. and the Danish state owned 21,4 pst. of the axes. In St.meld. No 13 for 2006–2007, An active and long-term ownership indicates that Nordic countries have a tradition of co-ordination in matters related to SAS. It's also one of the premises for the work that the government has done today. International aviation has faced major challenges that have affected many traditional airlines. The problem has also affected SAS. It has led to the need for new equity and the refinancing of loans. As many have been here today, SAS carried out a capital increase of NOK 6 billion in 2009. The Norwegian State took part in the increase of more than 700 million. kr. The capital extension was based on a strategic plan focusing on cost reduction and concentration on the core activities of the company. However, the traffic and revenue of the company has developed significantly weaker than that underlying the issue last year. The main cause of the negative development is a sharper economic decline than expected. The company has also incurred considerable restructuring costs in the implementation of Core SAS core strategy. Therefore, the company needs new equity. One of the terms of the issue is a long-term refinancing of debt securities of NOK 2 billion. In order to obtain favourable loan terms, the Board of Directors of SAS would like to raise a convertible loan. It must be approved by the shareholders of the General Assembly, and the Government proposes to authorise the Board of Directors to take up a convertible loan, provided that the other Nordic countries do the same. It is important for the Government to safeguard its ownership interests in the best possible way. The government has committed an international advisory company to consider the proposal for an extension of the capital of SAS. The advisers of my capital need are realistic. They also believe that the state's investments will yield market returns. The advisers believe that a convertible loan will have a limited effect on the conclusion that there is a market return on the issue we are now making. In view of the discussion we just had in the replication exchange, it's exactly what the government party is basing on, that we should act so that we get a commercial return, and that we take care of what we've already invested in the SAS company. We have to continue working with SAS, move in with the capital that, after a factual and commercial assessment, leads to a return on capital. Questions have been asked about the company’s ability to implement the new strategy and achieve the planned cost reductions. The information we have received in the last few days indicates that the company is on the right track. We assume that the Government will follow developments very closely to ensure the best possible value of the company. Finally, I would just like to say that we have also noticed that the Government is engaged in maintaining regional policy and transport policy in the event of a change in the situation. It is positive that the Government in that case will involve the Storing in the process. We often hear from the opposition that they regret that the Storting is not involved in such processes. Here they have possibilities, but they don't want them to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2121	The representative Holmelid represents the Socialist Left Party, one of the red-green parties. It's touching to hear about the long-term ownership, about securing the values of SAS, and that we have to think about long-term ownership. For not so long ago, representatives from SV were in charge of a new fare. We're going to build trains because airplanes are an environmental problem. We will deploy high-speed trains to compete on the Oslo-Trondheim, Oslo-Bergen and Oslo-Stavanger routes, and possibly Oslo-Kristiansand. Then is my question to the representative Holmelid: Where does the long-term sustainability of SAS become in this regard, when it comes to imposing higher charges on airlines with State-funded competition that make it even more difficult to meet the criteria in the future? Where is the logic of the representative Holmelid?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2128	I think it would be surprising and a lot of criticism if we had used our environmental policy to ensure the country's ownership interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2133	I'm a little unsure if I understood the last thing. I was going to ask you the same thing, but then I'll leave it. This praise of the company that we have heard now is not at all in line with the comments that the representative has made behind it. Two places write relatively strongly about the idea of selling the company in whole or in part, restructuring, entering new owner constellations, etc. You actually talk to two tongues here. What is the Socialist Left Party really want? Do you want to keep this company at any price, or do you want to sell it and get rid of it? And if so, why not vote in favour of our proposal to grant a sales authorisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2140	Now, after a quick examination of my script, I would say that praise was a bit of a change. I made it clear that we have made a commercial assessment and found out that in today's situation we get the best out of it and care for the state's ownership interest and the state's financial interest by standing at the share issue. And then we're aware that the government assumes that it may be relevant to other constellations in the future, but I'm of the opinion that the Storting hasn't hurt by joining that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2145	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2148	There is no concealment that SAS has worn out failed results for several years, which in turn has led to the owners being challenged to trade in the form of, among other things, to contribute to the expansion of equity. We as owners can make a choice if we want to sit passive and see that a company is confused and values are lost. Alternatively, we can take action when we think there is a need for it. In this case, the Central Party believes that it is right to take action again to make SAS AB a company that can stand on its own feet. Selling the shares, as the Progress Party is now proposing, bears witness to an irresponsibility that at best will only lead to the loss of money by the State. Fleeing from the problems brings no immediate success. Traditionally, Swedish, Danish and Norwegian authorities have placed great emphasis on the coordination of important ownership decisions in the company. Now, together with our Nordic friends, we have to show responsibility again. Through the ownership notification, the Government has assumed that the State should be an active, long-term and predictable owner of important Norwegian companies. Through its ownership, the country wishes to contribute to the good and stable development of its business in Norway. The central party considers it appropriate to impose cost reductions and refinancing requirements when the State agrees to capital expansion. In this context, employees must contribute cost reductions equivalent to a net of 500 million. kr. per year years, and we have demanded that the debt securities amounting to approximately SEK 2 billion must be refinanced. It shows that today's government takes responsibility and is an active owner. For the Central Party, it is important to stress the importance of SAS AB in Scandinavian transport. The company is involved in shrinking the distances in our long-range country, which allows us to have housing across the country, which in turn provides a greater diversity in nutrition and a wider value creation. It is essential that the governance of district and transport policy concerns focus on the importance of the company in society. The Central Party believes that the company will continue to play a central role in the Scandinavian aviation market, not only in view of wider competition for the benefit of customers, but also in view of the regional and transport considerations, as I have also mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2166	I also have questions for the representative of the Central Party. In one case it is shown that the Government will consider an industrial form of cooperation, possibly sales, if it should be, while in the other case it argues for the importance of maintaining the ownership position by 14.3 p.m., as today. My first question to the representative is this: what are we going to do? Are we going to deal with the fact that it makes sense to sell down, possibly completely, in the long term, or are we going to maintain the ownership position, as today? Question 2 is: If we are going to sell out, which is also behind the position, where is it of the commitment that the representative believes is in the route offer and district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2175	First of all, I would like to say that the government has given clear notice that the government has no plans to sell its shares in SAS. That's also what we're starting from. However, it is recognised that the development of strong competition in the Scandinavian market from low-priced operators poses a real threat to the competitiveness of SAS. We and the Government are open to assess sales if it makes commercial sense, and in the light of the competitive situation mentioned. But what is equally important, and as it is important to stress, is that we are concerned that we should focus in particular on ensuring that regional and transport policy considerations are well taken care of even if there is a sale. It's important that we fence around, and it's important that we underline it. We know that we have a long-distance and pig-grown country, and it is important that we focus on the importance of such a company and will have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2183	The representative said in his statement that it is irresponsible for the Progress Party to propose to sell the company. Now it's also right in that proposal, so I'd like to sign up for irresponsibility, if that's possible. The question is, why is the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right to sell parts of or the whole company or restructure it, irresponsible? The comments contained in the Central Party say exactly the same thing. The difference may be in time. What is the principle difference, and why do you attack the Advance Party and the Right to really say the exact same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2190	There is a very significant difference between what the government parties and the government have agreed to, and what the Right Party and the Advance Party have addressed. I am absolutely sure that the representative fleet also agrees. Otherwise, probably the Right Party and the Advance Party had agreed with the Government. What matters to us is that we have faith in what the board has presented as proposals. We think it can lead to a competitive company. There is a solution that will help to secure jobs and to provide the basis for the good maintenance of the grid throughout Norway and Scandinavia. That is also the background to our support for the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2197	The representative Lange Nordahl here replied to the agent Fleet that it's quite obvious what's the difference between these two things. Then I would ask that the representative Nordahl expand that transparency, because I can't actually find it. Because when a reader reads the remark of the government parties, it says the following: ‘In this context, the majority indicates that the government expresses that it can be open to assess the possible sale of all or part of the country’s holding in SAS AB, if it makes commercial sense to the State.’ If we go back and read the proposal, it says the following: ‘The decision authorises the government to liquidate, in whole or in part, the ownership of SAS AB by sale or by entering into commercial industrial reorganisations.’;» It's definitely identical. Can the representative Nordahl tell us where the obvious difference is?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2212	I have just explained it to the representative of the fleet. The starting point is that we have faith in the arrangement that the SAS board has now presented. We'll follow it and we'll be in on the capital expansion to which this is invited. That's the big difference. The Right Party and the Advance Party have said that they will not be in it. They don't want to lay the groundwork for a further bet, and that's not what the government's going for. We want to be part of the capital expansion to which this is invited.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2217	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2220	The State that owns must have the primary objective of contributing to the long-term value creation and development of its companies. This requires companies to be competitive over time. The State must design its ownership in such a way that this necessary assumption is not impaired. It's added to Prop. 79 S propose that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be empowered to participate in a capital increase in SAS under certain conditions. The State’s share of the issue will be about 580 million. kr, and State participation shall take place within a framework whereby the State’s holding amounts to 14,3 p.m. initially remain unchanged. I have to admit that I have been in serious doubt in this matter. It is not acceptable at all that it has almost become an annual phenomenon that the Storting grants equity to SAS. In addition, it is problematic with regard to other competitors in the aviation market in Norway. However, the Swedish and Danish authorities support the Board's proposals on capital expansion, as are the largest private owners in the company. In the ownership notification, it was argued that Swedish, Danish and Norwegian authorities should act in a coordinated manner in important ownership decisions in the company. The government’s external advisors believe that the country’s investment could generate market returns. We have therefore concluded that we support the proposal. But we can't go on with this every year. In order to make SAS more competitive in the future, the company has to carry out severe cost reductions and refinance loans that are due this year. The company must also implement the necessary measures to achieve market returns. The Swedish Government has requested a mandate from the Riksdag to reduce its holdings in SAS whenever possible on a commercial basis. The Danish government has also indicated that it will be open to sell its shares in SAS. The Christian People's Party is open to consider any sale of all or part of the country's shareholding in SAS, if it makes commercial sense to the State. If this should be the case, we believe that it is important to take account of current regional and transport policy considerations and that the company should continue to play a central role in the Scandinavian aviation market. In addition, it is important that the authorities of Norway, Sweden and Denmark also act in a coordinated manner in the future. So the question of whether a convertible bond loan should be established. SAS has a weak credit rating, which in today’s credit market contributes to tight debt financing conditions. It is therefore an advantage for the company to have flexibility to play on different loan instruments. One consequence for existing shareholders through the use of convertible bonds is that some of the upsides of a good development in the share price will fall to the bond holders if the loan is converted into equity. On the other hand, such a conversion will strengthen the company's equity and balance sheet. In addition, the ownership base is expanded, resulting in a wider risk distribution. It's important in today's situation. The Christian People's Party believes that a convertible bond loan will be an important element in ensuring total refinancing, which is a prerequisite for state participation in equity expansion. The conclusion is therefore that the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposals in Prop. 79 S for 2009-2010 on the participation of the State in the proposed capital increase in SAS and the proposal in Prop. 89 S for 2009-2010 that the Government empowers the board of SAS to take up a convertible bond loan of up to SEK 2 billion and that we give our consent that the state’s holding in SAS can be reduced to 12.3 p.m. in the event of a future conversion of the bond loan into the share capital of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2243	I just want to explain the cards for the Left's vote here today. The situation in SAS is not new. Deficit and redundancy are more the rule than the exception in recent years. As late as last May, SAS picked up about 6 billion Swedish kronor from its owners. Now SAS must have new 5 billion Swedish kroner. So bad is the situation in the company that SAS has lost NOK 160 on each and every airline passenger in the last two years. For the left, it's obvious that we can't have a situation where SAS comes to the owners every year to ask for an issue to ensure further maritime operations. Therefore, the government must take urgent action against the other Nordic governments, with a view to allowing SAS to enter into mergers or strategic alliances with other companies, so that the State’s ownership of the company can rather be reduced and that the State can sell out of the company in the long term. Under strong doubt, the Left supported the previous SAS issue, when the State contributed some 720 million. kr to ensure the country's share values in both a short and a medium-term perspective. But we believe that that justification is no longer sustainable, and that the company's problems with the ownership structure that exists today will be of a more or less lasting nature. The state’s ownership of SAS is the very example of state ownership without specific objectives and meaning. It is not an investment that yields returns, it is not an active ownership – but here, obviously, the negative results come as a surprise to the owner for each time – and are not necessary to safeguard national interests. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State so clearly signals that this is a ownership that we should soon get out of. The question is whether we need to ‘pain the bride’ before that happens, because it is really what the Greatness is asked to decide on here today. I warn against this background that the Left will support the minority proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to give the Government the power to sell in full or in part in SAS on the convertible bond issue, and that we will vote against the proposal for State participation in the capital increase in SAS AB.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2258	The time for the morning meeting is near. The President proposes that the Council of State should nevertheless be given the floor, with the assumed replacement of the lines, if the Grand Duchy agrees. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2263	I'll be brief, so we don't draw the extended morning term even further. Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for the work that has been done in a short time. It is a significant contribution to ensuring the functioning of SAS. The Advocate General, the Chairman of the Committee, presented the essential points of this case in an excellent manner. It is a fact that SAS has had weak results for many years. SAS has incurred excessive costs in a challenging competitive situation. Based on a new strategy plan, Core SAS, which resulted in significant cost cuts, the State participated in an equity increase of SEK 6 billion last year. The Board of Directors has initiated savings to increase the annual cost savings from NOK 4 billion to SEK 7.8 billion, as part of the Core SAS plan, while the Board of Directors has requested that equity be increased by a further SEK 5 billion. The board has also asked shareholders for an authorisation to issue one or more convertible debt securities totalling NOK 2 billion. This is not a wish situation, and it was not in the Government's plan that a new issue should be made so early after the previous one. Nevertheless, we are ready to participate with our share also in this increase in equity in SAS, and empower the board to issue a convertible bond to meet the terms of the Government to participate in the issue. It has mainly been that employees have to contribute additional savings of DKK 1⁄2 billion and also that the bonds issued this year are refinanced. Both of these conditions are now met, and we also have an analysis that goes on that background is an equity expansion to defend. The Scandinavian States and the Wallenberg Foundation are also positive in participating with their shares. In this way, we can help maintain SAS as an important player in Scandinavia and Norway, and through it maintain a good air route network in Norway. Finally, the Government is open to assess the sale of the State’s shares in SAS or to participate in a consolidation with others, if this is commercially reasonable and such an occasion warrants. We intend to act in coordination with the Swedish and Danish states in such important ownership decisions and come back to Stortinget if the need for this arises. I note with satisfaction that the Government's proposals in the committee's position are supported by a majority of the government parties and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2283	In many ways we are well in the final phase of the debate, and most of it has probably been debated. Among other things, I have reviewed the status of SAS Core – i.e. the programme – and the uncertainties that lie there. As the Council of State says in its statement, there are some assumptions here. The prerequisites have not been met in so far. What you've got in place is an agreement with the employees, and then we'll see where it's going, because it's in these days and in the future that it's, among other things. shall conduct wage negotiations, etc. We will then see how this will affect the company's further economy. But my question to the Council of State is far in a slightly different street. Now you've said you're willing to sell. We have also said in the past that it is important that these three countries act together to get the company on foot. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State take initiatives towards its colleagues in Sweden and Denmark to see if it is possible to act collectively to try to find an industrial actor who may be willing to join the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2295	This is a dialogue that we already have with our partners in Sweden and Denmark. It's also been on the map before my time, so we're going to follow closely if that opportunity permits. At the same time, we should be a responsible owner and aim to bring the company into a positive course, while we are the owners of it. We must not appear to be a desperate owner who will sell at any price. Then I don't think we want to maximise either the values or secure the workplaces in a good way. But we're going to keep our eyes open and look for opportunities for SAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2300	State councils have been informed by their own large number, correctly in a note, to consider options for restructuring, owner constellations, full or partial sales, etc. We've heard him say from the pulpit that he's into the same thoughts himself, and it's also written in the proposition. A little background to the discussion we have had here today, where the red-green parties have gone relatively quietly past these comments, I would like to ask the Council of State to exercise ownership here: Would it have been problematic for him to deal with the sales/restructuring authorisation – not limited in time – proposed by the Progress Party and the Right if it had been adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2307	It is a hypothetical situation, but I really want to turn it around and say that it is completely unproblematic to deal with a possible sales situation without the mandate, because then we can get back to Stortinget with a case and get the powers we need. We do not need to put the company out for sale until we see a situation where it is relevant. I am concerned to signal that we are a long-term, solid and responsible owner of SAS. This is a company that has thousands of employees, including in Norway. The most important job now is to get the company profitable, secure the jobs, secure the flight offer in Norway and secure the values of the state. If a situation arises – for which I will keep my eyes open – for consolidation, for association or for sale, we will bring it back to Stortinget in a good way. The signals in the setting are more than enough for us for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2314	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. That concludes this morning's meeting. [[See pages 2700 and 2701]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2350	When the Stortinget dealt with the budget last year, the Minister of Justice said the following: ‘The size is today invited to decide on a historical commitment to the fight against crime. That's the biggest judicial budget we've ever adopted, and the growth we're facing, especially in the area of the police, we have to go back a long way to find our husband." VG has also reported that the police must have at least 360 vacations this year as a result of that 180 million. kr has moved from the police districts to a central ICT initiative – figures that the Government has strongly distanced from. This government has had months to cancel, and if it doesn't, what's right? How many shifts does the police want in their watch lists this year? When the Council of State is able to regulate the number of posts in detail, for example: Eastfold, we're assuming that you can answer this in a similar way. The government has repeatedly stated, also on the Government's websites, that in 2009 and 2010 the police will be strengthened by 1,100 annual works. When I and Røre's party leader, Erna Solberg, asked questions about this in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that he felt it was important to fight crime. That view, to put it that way, is not particularly alarming, but the question was therefore about the number of employees in the police force. Can the state councils here today decide whether we will have 1 100 more new annual works in 2009 and 2010? We hope to get an answer to that. And last but not least, was it not known at the time of the presentation of the budget that the need for resources for ICT in the police was going to be set up against funds for new employment? When this interpellation was put in place, we had little hope that the situation had been better today, and that the media had exaggerated. Unfortunately, the last month has shown the opposite. We see that the police helicopter is put on the ground in Easter and later. This would go on its own budget in agreement with the Ministry of Justice. Now Oslo police district has to buy it for $30 million. kr itself. It is perceived by the Oslo police and their trustees as a clear breach of agreement. This also means that the operating budget is halved and that there is no day-to-day standby, i.e. a reduction of the helicopter service. This also goes beyond the motivation of the crew, which is also attractive on the civil market. From the Right we fear, when we're in the seasons, for the summer crew in the police. For example: police districts have the means to hire summer vicars, when there is not enough resources to fill the watch lists for the rest of the year? VG 21 February 2010 reports that newly trained police officers have to report to Nav because they are not paid to hire them. In Asker and Bærum police districts, you have to reduce by 50 jobs. It is reported from several places that there is a need to deprioritise the public ministry, and it is announced that more jobs will be kept on the watch for the summer. In my reply to the Council of State, I'd like to make sure that the Council of State is going to say that the admission to the Police College was too low for a while, and that the DNA reform is a success. That the recording to the Police College was low for a while, there's no doubt about it. There we all have a common historical responsibility. The Bondevik II government began to escalate, and this government has, deservedly enough, considerably increased the recording – all the way with Right support. But the first commandment must be that there is a job for all these newly educated policemen, who were promised and guaranteed work last year. 460 students are now on their way into the dark. Several students look at alternative places to work, such as: Defense. We've been in contact with more people at the police high school who are frustrated, and we've been informed that more students, for example. in Hedmark, move home to his parents, and report to Nav. Speaking of Hedmark, I hope that we can also get a confirmation from the Council of State as to whether or not operational borders have been set on ice, as some police officers report to us. The right has been concerned with increased admissions at the Police College, but we have also been concerned that quality requirements should not be relaxed. We now see that there are conflicts between those who have been quotad and other students, and the physical requirements have been reduced. Compared to what you get at the other end, there may be reason to challenge the Council of State on the quality of all those who are our coming policemen. Throughout the winter, we have heard from all the police districts that the lack of custody is so precarious that suspects of serious crime are released from custody, simply because there are no custody sites to recover. The Council of State has, throughout its term of office, been concerned with reducing the pay queue, but the question is whether there has been a price that employees have described as ‘the professional drop of the century’. The Norwegian prison population has been very high — at times almost irresponsibly high. Over time, it has been demanding for prisoners and employees, and the maintenance capacity has naturally been affected by it. We know that people are placed in open ground because, for example, Oslo prison is full, and custody will be released to the police. On this basis, it seems a bit strange to take credit for reduced cows, but not the same responsibility for an unsustainable care situation. In the evening post of 22 February 2010, it is noted that Norway has repeatedly been criticised by the United Nations and the Council of Europe for the use of smooth cells due to lack of maintenance capacity. There's something to think about. Several have pointed out that there is a project tyranny in the police, and that the political overarching of the police makes it worse to get out. There is reason to ask similar questions related to the management of the police action as to the discussion that has taken in relation to the designation of funds, for example: in the municipal sector. Very many police officers experience a political detail management from the top that, outright, prevents them from doing as effective a job as they could have done. When e.g. The Minister of Justice is trying to regulate in detail the number of posts to be held there is almost reason to wonder what you really have in the Directorate of Police. Misunderstand me correctly: the right is for a directorate who controls the country's 27 police districts and special units, but is therefore concerned that the political need to put some political pennies around actually contributes to less efficient use of funds and a worse result in the end. We politicians should take on board the criticism that has come from, for example. The National Auditor's Office. In various ways – whether it is position or opposition – we push the police on a hundred tasks and want everything to be prioritised, but pay for fifty, and in many cases leave the police alone to do the priorities we do not. We know that in recent years the population has increased by 300,000, while in the same period there has actually been zero growth in the number of operative police officers. As an example of the increase in the number of jobs, you can look at the foreign affairs that have increased by 150 pst. in most districts. In South-Trundellag e.g. PF reports that this amount has increased from 7 000 in 2002 to 17 000 last year. The sum of all that's happened is that over time we've got a police officer who's partially paralyzed. There are very many examples of good police work, but there are very few examples that we politicians have managed to give money to the police in relation to the tasks that we impose on them in different ways. It came up recently when one was forced to take what must be said to be a hopeless choice: ICT bets set up against the number of employees and jobs for those to whom one has guaranteed a job, which is newly trained from the Police College. Then the question is, When does the ‘time bet on the police’, as the Government and the Council of State have described in recent years, give a visible result in terms of increased clarification and, in fact, to be a sector that is at rest, where you feel that the job you are doing is valued in a good enough way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2389	First of all, when it comes to the management of the Norwegian police, I just have to be allowed to express that the police and the Police Directorate have very much the ability to rule within the limits that you have. It is a paradox to hear that at one moment the interpellant accuses the Minister of Justice and the Government of the detailed management of the police, while at the other moment, and in the interpellation, drawing forward a very specific case and almost making it the subject of political debate. But you don't give up on it. When the Directorate of Police has the ability to manage its entire budget and how to distribute it, you have made absolutely necessary choices, in my opinion, in terms of investing in ICT, which is just an answer to the Riksrevision's criticism, and then it is almost made as a problem by the interpellant in this round. I believe that, too, we should almost override the Directorate of Police when it comes to the decisions that have been taken on ICT. In my opinion, at some point you have to decide whether you think the police are being run too much politically, or whether it is being run too little. If you think it's being rushed too much, it'll cost us too, in the sense that it won't be able to provide opportunities for, among other things. addressing the issues that need to be addressed, towards a fully-fledged ICT bet and e.g.: a number of individual items. I am of the opinion that today the Norwegian police stand far better strengthened than what they did just for a few years ago. Let me start with the basics, the budget. The government has significant budgets both during this period and in the previous increased police. Since the government change, the budget has increased from DKK 8.7 billion in 2006 to DKK 11.6 billion in 2010. There's a growth of 32.8 pst. This year the budget was increased by a total of DKK 1.3 billion. If you subtract from price and salary adjustments, the growth is close to NOK 1.2 billion. This is the greatest increase in the police budget of the time. We can't get away with that. In the action package last year, 460 civil acts were set up in the police and relief service. As a result, 288 police officers were released for operational work. In addition, as part of the new special agreement on police working time, which entered into force on 1 October 2009, an agreement was made to increase the working time of many police officers by one hour. This results in an estimated resource increase of 230 years. All in all, only these two grips provide a significant boost for the Norwegian police. I met policemen out here now, with whom I had conversations, and I am convinced that the interpellant has also met many. They're adorned with new communications equipment here in Oslo. Emergency power is in place. It is a major investment, which is absolutely necessary in relation to both statements from the Police Union, the police force and us politicians, a stake that is in the 3–4–5 billion class. In addition, the Ministry of Justice is following up the Directorate-General of the Police Staff Investigation, the police against 2020, which has broad support here in the United Kingdom, and which has demonstrated a significant need for police-trained personnel, both due to the high level of retirement and the need for solid ground personnel to maintain a close and strong police force and an acceptable response time. It is against this background that the number of students at the Police College has increased significantly in recent years. In 2010, the recording is for a total of 720 students. I have to remind you once again that the recording during the Bondevik II administration was down to 240 students, and was increased to 360. We're now on the double. The government has also made sure to increase the amount of money allocated to the police, including the police. in the current year, to make it possible for all newly-trained police students to get a job. In this respect, I would like to point out that the 2009 budgets have increased by 28 million. SEK 34 million. kr, just to make it easier for newly educated people to get a job. In the police and prosecution authorities there has been a large increase in the number of annual work in recent years. According to the statistics of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, it was per year. On 1 March 2002, 11 745 annual works, while the corresponding figure in 2009 was 13 350 annual works, i.e. an increase of 1605 annual works. Today, we have been presented with figures showing that during the six months of 2009, there was an increase, excluding what happened in the context of the working time agreement, in the number of annual police work – with 525 annual police departments. That's halfway in the bet that the government said we should have in 2009 and 2010. Compared to the annual work received in connection with the new working-time contract, we only had an increase of more than 700 annual works until October 2009. It's rare we read about it in the papers, and it's rare we hear the Police Joint Association argue with these annual works. It has been produced in the media as if the Police Directorate had asked the police districts to cut the number of posts as a consequence of the central ICT efforts of the police. In my opinion, this is not a proper presentation. It is the responsibility of the police officer to establish both the annual work framework and the resources for operations and investments within the allocated budget framework. It is true that in 2010, the police directorate stopped for about a year. 1.6 pst. of the framework allocation to implement the necessary joint action on ICT. According to my terms, this is completely mandatory and necessary. This will lead to better and safer ICT systems for the police. ICT action is an imperative necessity and a prerequisite for operational police cooperation. Joint investment can only be carried out from a central point of view, but it will benefit the police as a whole. There has also been a pre-requisite for the development of new criminal legislation, police records legislation and the other significant initiatives in the police, including: The DNA reform, which we've used over 100 million. kr in the year on in the last years. It is also worth noting that the Police Directorate informs that the police officers agree with this joint effort. With as large budget increases as the police have had since 2006, it is important to ensure that resources are used correctly, cost-effectively and targeted to combat crime and carry out the other tasks the police are responsible for. In the next four-year period, we will therefore implement measures that will help to give us more police force out of the resources available at all times. I am concerned that the relationships that, among other things, The national audit has pointed to, is being followed up. This is a relationship that I'm serious about. We need to focus more on results in the police, and we want to implement the announced result reform, which we are going to come back to. Nor is it right that the police are nearing full crisis and deliver worse and worse. I want to take an example from a district that the interpellant knows well. It's from the 16th of March of this year. There's a reason to notice that, because you're always referring to what might be found in negative statements. It says: ‘The Rome Police have had a kick-start in the year. So far, four out of ten crimes have been solved. The Chief of Police is in front of the form and approaching the percentage of information from peak years 2006 and 2007.’» It's an explanation rate that so far this year – we'll see how it goes – is on its way up. I find reason to point this out, because we have several districts and police stations doing a glittering job, which solves very serious crime, which has very difficult things, and which also regularly do a very satisfactory job. In particular, I would like to point out the major operations carried out by the police, including: related to Obama’s visit and a number of other major tasks related to demonstrations in Oslo, which have been solved not only with massive police pressure but also with method usage. It has made us dampened both conflicts and dangerous situations, and it has created more security for all of us. Since the interpellation contains many themes, I would just like to point out briefly that, in terms of prison capacity, nearly 400 prison sites have been built in recent years. It is important for the Government to get something done about the care situation. It's acute and difficult. More than 1,000 people are in custody, which shows that the police are delivering. It has been absolutely essential for us that the billion investment that has been made, among other things. through the construction of Halden prison, has taken place within budget and within time, so that in April we will be able to open up 252 prison sites in the central eastern region. There will be a significant grant to keep the pay queue in zero and to ensure that the people to be cared for will be held in custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2434	I understand that the Council of State thinks that the opposition is doing this is black paint. But there's a certain need, because what the government's been doing for years is beauty painting. Then probably the truth is somewhere in the middle. That's why I'm going to repeat the specific questions I asked in my article, which is not just media-based. But then I want a yes or no answer. The question is, does the Council of State view it as a problem that police students have to go straight to Nav? Yes or no. Does the Council of State see it as a problem that the police helicopter is put on the ground for months? Yes or no. Does the State Council consider it a problem to lower the quality requirements for the police students? Yes or no. Is it that the bet on border crime in Hedmark is up and going? Yes or no. One question is also, can the Council of State say that you're going to achieve what you promised, that there will be 1,100 new annual works during this year? Yes or no. Employees believe that there will be 360 vacations instead. These are quite specific questions. I hope that within 3 minutes the Council of State will be able to answer yes or no to the five-six questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2445	There are an incredible number of questions that come — both in the interpellation and otherwise. Many of the questions have also been answered, both by written answers and by previous rounds here in Stortinget. But I'll try to answer most of them. For us, it's totally unacceptable that police students go to Nav. It is also quite amazing that this claim is made, because around Norway there are now more vacancies for which applicants are not allowed. I want to encourage those who have police training and who have to feel that the only way to get a job is to go to Nav, to start applying for the vacancies that exist. But I can't guarantee that you get a job where you live, because we need the police all over the country. It makes me hope that many of the vacant employment homes that are out in the police districts are actually filled up. We'll follow that situation carefully. And it's also true that when we've given money to operate to hire new police students at all times, that's exactly what this money is going to do. With regard to the issue of police helicopters, it is within the budget framework of the Oslo Police District. It did so, as far as I am concerned, even under the previous government. That's a line we've chosen to continue. And if you look at Oslo police district budgets, they've increased considerably. We believe there should be room to cover that in the future. When it comes to the question of quality requirements at the Police College, I just have to say that I am happy because we have so many good applicants for the Police College. As far as I know, it is now at Coordinate Recording over 3,000 who have applied for the Police College. A year ago, we stood here and were accused that no one was going to apply for the Police College, because it was so little attractive to apply to the police. Now we have a number of applicants for the high school of police that is among the highest. I am convinced that the selection mechanisms that you have at the Police College contribute to our continuing good recruitment. But we need to ensure, as the representative Octay Dahl has also been concerned about, that minorities are represented, and that women are represented, in a reassuring, good way – in terms of women and men, fifty-fifty. I'm glad the women's share is high. I am also pleased that the minority share is increasing. With regard to the issue of border crime and the big effort in the 2010 budget – whether it be Hedmark, Rome or Eastfold – it is quite obvious that the money that we have allocated to this should go to exactly what we have pointed out as important. When it comes to the question of 1 100 new annual works, we believe that we are well on our way. It's not right that it's being cut in the police, and that you get fewer annual work. I've got new figures from the Ministry of Renewal today – as I pointed out instead, and as we're going to publish – divided into districts, and which show that only six months in the course of last year the number of police officers increased from 13,351 to 13,876 – 525 pieces. Then there are 230 new annual works in the new working time agreement. This shows that we're on the right track towards the goals we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2462	I want to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellation; the police are one of the pillars of our society. This is primarily about the need for police districts to be given the opportunity to recruit the number of police officers that the police chief considers necessary in order to ensure a professionally anchored staffing their police district. There is therefore no disagreement among the parties. Unfortunately, this is not possible anywhere, and one of the things that has been interesting in the debate here today is that the Minister of Justice admits that there are newly educated policemen going to Nav. It is no longer just a statement in the media, but a reality – as I perceived the Minister of Justice in his reply to the interpellant. Despite the need for more policemen, tight budgets lead to cutbacks and job stops in several police districts. Only in Asker and Bærum, the police have to cut 50 posts, according to the NRK on 12 March 2010. There, police officer Torod Weiding says that in 2010 they have no opportunity to hire newly educated policemen at all. He says that the cuts happen despite increased appropriations for the police districts. Weiding believes the problem is that the money is tied up against other investments. He says – and I quote: ‘The money goes to other things, and that makes it difficult for us to meet the political desire to recruit.’ I think Chief Weiding's into something essential. The police districts are unable to meet Storting's desire to hire more policemen than what is actually being done today, because the money disappears into other things on the way. It's probably not like this all over the country, but in several police districts, this is the feedback. In Agder police district, it is now proposed to go from 27 to 11 service stations. There's a powerful centralization of the police out there among people. The argument used is, among other things, to be more present in the population. This sounds like a contradiction. The project manager of this centralisation says that, according to his fatherland friend, it will be very challenging to be able to be more visible when you are represented in fewer places. It is also likely that fewer police officers will be employed. I believe the reason the police find out about this is that the money doesn't go any further. The police are forced with their tight budgets to find creative explanations, such as increasing police proximity, cutting off their services to the population – not because they want to, but because they feel forced by central authorities. And once again, it's absolutely right that the police appropriations from the state budget are record-breaking, but somehow it seems that the money doesn't make it. Only seven of the country's police districts get money set aside to hire newly-trained policemen, reports the NRK. The leader of the Police Union, Arne Johannessen, believes that this is exactly a paradox. He confirms that there will be fewer police officers in more police districts, no more, that there will be a bad deal with Regeringa's stated goals of a strong commitment to the Police College, and that we will have 2 700 new police officers by 2020. So there is a trend that is going in the wrong direction when police districts have to cancel dozens of police officers because of lack of money, and the stated goal of the Storting is the opposite. The Progress Party has seen the importance of the police in its budget. That's why we've said in the budget that the police need 260 million. kr more than the government thought was necessary, precisely in view of new employment. In addition, we have provided substantial funds for equipment investment, which would have facilitated the overall situation of the police. We didn't get the government with us at these points. Now we have come to March 2010 and we already see the consequences – and that the Progress Party was right in its assumptions in the budgetary process. Then we also have several hundred million dollars in the aftermath of ICT, and several hundred million in the aftermath of necessary changes in ICT due to Schengen cooperation, which does not come as an additional appropriation to the police. During the budgetary procedure last autumn, when the 2010 budget was drawn up, there was a great deal of focus in both the Justice Committee and the media – including Minister of Justice Storberget – on the lack of police in Norway. Money for the necessary intake increase in the country's higher education institutions was thus adopted, and it is of course affordable. However, the fact is crystal clear, for how is it possible that a police district such as Asker and Bærum, according to the NRK, must resign officials, while there is a lack of police?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2495	We're about to go into a hopefully fine Easter time, which unfortunately is also a time of villa invasions and winning crimes for the rest. There may also be major rescue operations, we have to have rescue preparedness, so let's hope that with the topicality of this interpellation, and in the description of the Council of State, as we have just heard, we take into account that we also have a sufficient preparedness in the Passover, and that we avoid what we experienced at Christmas times the last, when the care situation became so precarious that repeaters had to be released, as a very little welcome Christmas present in many communities. The Council of State stresses that no annual work is being cut in the police districts. Nevertheless, it is not hidden that there are vacations. Reported to the Judicial Committee, the police districts, police officers, are waiting to hire because of the strained operational situation and the operational budget. For the right, there is therefore a paradox that there is so much difference in the situation description provided by the Council of State, and what many experience as a very difficult operating situation in the police districts. For the Right, it's important not to operate detail management, so we fully agree with the Council of State on that. But it is important for us, however, that we have an overview that gives us confidence that we have a police force that is sufficiently manned to meet the challenges that exist at all times. That overview is what this interpellation is all about, getting a situational understanding that is related to reality so that we once again create security in the communities. Unfortunately, I cannot say that the statement from the Council of State was sufficient in accordance with the situation description from the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2504	I record that the representative Oktay Dahl is calling for visible results of the ‘time bet on the police’. After a careful examination of the interpellation, I find that there are actually six different issues raised in one and the same interpellation. This includes everything from newly trained policemen, who, after a survey in the VG, have to start their professional career on Nav, to the criticism of Norway by the United Nations and the Council of Europe of Norway for lack of maintenance capacity and use of smooth cell. The question of when we get visible results from this increase in police activity is a follow-up to a hack policy that will help to remove the attention from a policy that works. With today's government, with today's justice policy, we get more security, more visible police – and a police present. State councils have once again spent precious time dealing with the same questions that have been raised and answered repeatedly. I should therefore not have taken the word for further time use on an evening that could be relatively long, but I have allowed time to wait. The answer to the question of when to make time visible may be given in short form. The initiative has led the police to prison far more than we have custody. The police officer in Rome, in Oktay Dahl's own home state, says it's a pleasure and a very good thing that the police have cleared up 40,5 p.m. of the crimes. New figures from the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs show that the number of annual works in Rome’s police districts has increased from 523 to 565 from 1 March 2009 to 1 October 2009. So the representative, Oktay Dahl, doesn't have to go far to see the results of the bet on the police and that it works. This is the most tangible and visible result of the ‘time bet on the police’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2515	Let me start by saying that it is gratifying that the police profession is still a popular profession, despite the fact that many people have tried to paint the situation black. A total of 3,220 applicants had the primary priority of the Police College when the deadline for application through the Coordination admission expired on 4 March. This is joyous, and it promises well. I am also pleased that the red-green government has expanded the capacity of the Police College. This year, 720 of these young applicants will have their desire to become police students, and then the police, fulfilled. As you know, capacity has increased from 240 in 2005 to 720 this year. This shows that our government is forward-looking and that we are taking the fight against crime seriously. Many of us have registered that some trained police students report to Nav. It's worrying. That's not why we're educating them. That's not why society spends a lot of resources at the Police College. We want them to actually go into the police action and engage in crime control and prevention. So I'm really worried when someone on the one hand joins Nav - and charges an already pressed Nav-etat - and on the other hand when Tone Vangen, the Salten Police Department Police Commissioner, says to the NRK: «We still have vacancies in the Salten Police District. It is an arduous situation that we have had for a long time." She said this to the NRK on 25 May 2009. But I've been talking to the Salt today. According to Jan Tore Hagnes, the head of administration there, the situation is still the same. It's not broken vacations, we don't get people, he said. On 13 January 2010, NRK Nordland had a look-up entitled ‘Rejecting to work in the districts’. That day the district of Nordland had 23 job vacancies. A police student, quoted by name in the notice, said the following about working at a county clerk's office: "I think it might be boring and not challenging. We want to experience things." The NRK describes the situation as described in this statement: ‘Since there are not enough police officers trained on a national basis, there is no problem for Jansen, and the other students to get a job where they wish.’ "We're probably a little shy," says this young student. "When we can get a job elsewhere, we choose the Länsmann offices," she concludes. So it's probably true that some students have signed up for Nav – not because the police case doesn't need them, but because they don't want your jobs. I feel that it is a common task for all of us in this room, and for the Police Union, to work to ensure that the North in the districts also get good police officers. Nordmen who live in the districts are entitled to security, so are they. I am therefore pleased that more people have focused on this. Prime Minister Jan Tore Hagnes of the Salten Police Joint Union said to NRK on 28 May last year: ‘It is a concern that we are not able to obtain applicants for jobs in the districts and in the Nordic countries in general.’ Therefore, we need to work actively to increase recruitment to the districts. The image André Oktay Dahl is trying to draw in his interpellation, is half the truth. He knows very well that the police budget has been strengthened by a total of DKK 1.3 billion this year compared to last year. If we subtract wage and price adjustment, the growth is close to NOK 1.2 billion. He knows very well that the police budget has increased from DKK 8.7 billion in 2006 to 11.6 billion this year. He knows very well that this is an increase of the entire 32.8 pst. I'm starting to wonder now, as I've said before, what are the police spending 1.3 billion kroner on? That must be anti-crime, because I can't imagine they're buying flowers to each other for NOK 1.3 billion. Then there will be many flowers! If that's what happens, I want us to send a couple of flowers to the Minister of Justice, who's been working hard because the budget is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2559	The President would just say that SEK 1.3 billion in flowers is going to be slightly above the tax-payable. It would trigger tax liability for the Minister of Justice, so let's hope that it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2562	It's always important and interesting to discuss the police, even if I'm not in agreement with this specific debate. There is no doubt that the police are facing, and will always face, major challenges when it comes to preventing, detecting and clearing crime. As long as we have laws, it's probably always going to be someone who breaks them, and they're constantly planning new ways of not being discovered. That's why it's both necessary and right by the red-green government to bet on the police, as we've done. It's a formidable bet it's about. When it comes to the claim that comes from Dahl, about the case of unemployed police students who don't get a job, one should not underestimate the reaction that people get when they're new and not get a job right where they want to. But this is the case within all occupational groups. If we take education, we have to assume that it can take some time before we get a job where we want to. What is at least certain is that the number of police students has increased considerably, and that there are jobs around in the whole country to everyone, if they are looking for a job where it is available. What I would like to point out then – almost to the right of the representative Dahl as if there are mass redundancies in the police for the time being – is that if we go into the latest figures on annual police work, we see changes from March 1st to October 1st, 2009, i.e. in half a year. Let me refer to concrete examples, first from Oslo, where the number has gone up from 2,368 to 2,487 years, i.e. a difference of 119 to the plus. In Rome, a well-known district of Dahl, the number has gone up from 523 to 565, i.e. 42 plus. Furthermore, I can learn that Asker and Bærum have received 16 plus, Vestfold 19, Rogaland 58, Süd-Trøndelag 45, etc. On this long list, there is a decline in only three districts, and the decline in 1, 2 and 7 fewer annual works. So numbers clearly show the image that we give, that it has a bet. Then I can't see that there is a basis for the claim of so-called rose measurement from the interpellant's side. To ensure that everyone can feel safe no matter where a cage in the country and no matter who it is, is at the heart of the Central Party's judicial policy. Different places in the country have different challenges. Strengthening specialised response groups, for example: drug law crime in big cities and ensuring that the police are ready to move out in a reasonable time in all parts of the country are two equally important pieces of the community. Prevention is very important, and it is important to make criminal activity difficult and less profitable. Of course, the police are supposed to be visible and to be doing detainee work. There is no doubt that, unfortunately, most of the resources are involved in reactive work. The operation of the police is too much event-driven, and therefore this performance reform, which is now under way, is becoming important. The operational analysis shall show how resources are used and what grip can be done to improve the results. What I might particularly like to point out when it concerns the districts is that in different parts of the country there is also different coverage per. A thousand inhabitants. It is important to look at how to ensure that all parts of the country have a sufficient number of annual work per year. A thousand inhabitants. The goal of the Center Party is that it should be two per. A thousand until 2020. Finally, I would like to stress that there is a great deal to be gained from better cooperation between the police districts and the officers’ offices. I notice that the Police Joint Union, etc. talks about the need for more focus on leadership roles in the police. One should not underestimate the extent to which good organisation and targeted cooperation can be obtained, and good leaders are a means of doing so. The concrete example of Rome, which now has much better results, can be a sign that other police districts should also see you for happiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2582	There should be no doubt that the police are the budget winner of the year, and it is not possible to get under the chair that very many sectors were green with envy when they saw how much the police budgets were increased, and one could only dream of a corresponding increase in the operating framework. It is timely to remind the interpellant and the party Right of what they propose in addition to the Government's proposals for appropriations – that was 140 million. kr at the top of what the Government proposed. The 140 million. kr was intended for, among others: equipment, ICT and senior measures, to mention something. What I could then imagine asking questions to the interpellant is: In what way other than what today's government is doing, would the interpellant have disposed of the funds if he had been Minister of Justice? Now there are several people who have discovered that the situation is not like the interpellant is trying to produce it. We're pointing out that it's over 500 new year's work just in six months. The representative Klinge referred to specific police districts and their numbers. As far as police students are concerned, there has been a debate about whether they want to go to the districts to work. It's a little bit where it lies, that some newly educated people today go and report to Nav because they don't get a job right where they live, and where they want to. Feedbacks I get from police students who have been out in the U.S. Office in their practical year are that it is very interesting to work at a local Länsmannskontoret, because you get a much wider range of police tasks, and you get a lot more of your skills by working out at a Länsmannskontoret. I think it's very important that we in the future make it possible for as many of the police students to get out and practice in the county offices. So that's the way, that's also for me, that when I was a trained nurse, I didn't get a job right where I lived. But I got a job in a completely different place in the country – in Stavanger. That's the way it is, and that's how I think most of our newly educated policemen are prepared to do it. Then I wonder if the interpellant has any thoughts about how one should have disposed of the resources, if he thinks that the way they are now disposed of is not good enough. The question is also whether it is that the Right believes that there is so much little money allocated here, that it will be proposed to grant large sums in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2597	I notice that the mantra from the government parties also in this respect is: we have never used that much money ever. It's kind of like when people travel to New York and use their credit card. Then there are a lot of people who come back and say that they have never spent that much money at any time, but they are not quite sure how much they got left for using the credit card. It's almost comparable. As far as flowers are concerned, I think the Minister of Justice could well imagine that 1.3 billion kroner were spent on flowers to praise this government, for any critical question asked by people outside this house, being answered so clearly that it is clear that no one has come to know what the situation is like. With regard to the figures of the representative, Klinge, she took note of some of the regions of this country which have the largest population growth, as opposed to some of the Central Party’s core municipalities. If you take the number of people moving here, versus the number of new policemen, the police coverage won't be much better. I understand that this is an unnecessary debate. I also understand that we have a government council that feels it is unnecessary to meet in Stortinget. But that's actually how we have to have a debate about what the situation is. I have to say that if our questions are taken care of, it would have happened that you showed a little bit of the ability to see that you have some challenges, rather than clumsing numbers on numbers that really don't say too much about what we're actually getting back, on the table. This focus should now be on the Riksrevision: What was the Riksrevision pointed to? Well, the Riksrevision criticized primarily the Ministry of Justice and the POD. It says, of course, that those who are going to have the overall management of this floor don't have order in their own house. Then I have to say that when I saw the police director kicking down the police districts yesterday – which she is actually doing – it may be time to clean up your own house before going to the police districts. Then everything is obviously very good. Yeah, then it's especially that the nightfalls in Oslo say they warn people not to go into parts of this city. It's worse than ever, more weapons in circulation. We also see that there are communication problems at the Police College. We see that people who come out of the Police College are not able to communicate well enough in their dialogue with their colleagues in some police districts. You weaken the physical requirements, and then the question is, is it because it's something you want, or is it something you have to do, because the quality of the applicants is not as high as you would like? Finally, to the representative Torve: Yes, take a look at the last nine budgets and compare Right-wing police budgets with the Labour Party police budgets. Then you see both numbers and proposals showing a completely different direction, which actually takes the people's security seriously, which the Labour Party has not done for at least ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2614	Let it not remain as a impression that I and others would not want to meet in Stortinget and discuss these questions. I don't think I've expressed myself this way, rather on the contrary. It is precisely in the Storting we should have this kind of debate. To be assigned that meaning I will strongly distance myself from. It's very good to meet in the Storting and take this debate, because this is where we get an opportunity to break up when it comes to whether we disagree about the facts and whether we disagree about the way forward. Now I have not heard so many proposals in the debate that will point the way forward. We stand in many ways and fight about the facts – the description of reality. But there are a few areas I think there is a basis for pointing to. The government's commitment to the police does not come because we believe everything is very well with the Norwegian police. Then we wouldn't bet. When we're going to pick up 720 students for the Police College this fall, we're not going to do that because we think there's enough police people. We do it because we think we need more, and because we have put forward a strategy towards 2020. I have realized that no parties in Stortinget have voted against having 720 students in the recording – either higher or lower. Of course, it was a proposal from the Right that went to 560, or something like that. But we're going to have to stretch and be clear enough to say that we were together in 720. We do that because we want to bet on the police in the future. That we wanted 1,000 new civilian positions to relieve policemen who were in the offices is not because we believe we have too little police force out there. One of the reasons behind this is that we want more police force. It is as I think it is unfortunate that we have had periods behind us where we have had such low admission to the Police College that the number of police officers has been reduced in total. More have stopped than those who have come to. The only way we can solve this is by educating more people. My claim is that we're actually now in a situation where all the police are going to get a job if they're willing to move on. That's how we have the highest recording that's going to help us achieve the goals we've set. I would also like to say that there are significant investments in other areas as well – the emergency network, as I mentioned earlier, and the DNA bet. But at the same time, I very much stress that in a period when we're betting a lot of dollars and people, we don't have to lose sight of whether we get that efficiency out of what we want. I want to underline it. Several have been involved, including the interpellant. For the future, we are totally dependent on having a debate on efficiency and results. It took the government initiative, as we announced last year, and which we are now doing well – both operational analysis and a future performance reform. It will be absolutely necessary at a time when we have such a lot of bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2627	The examination of case No. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2643	We must be happy that we have a legal system here in the country that enjoys great respect and that has both authority and trust. This in itself contributes to creating security in society. But the firm position of the judiciary cannot be taken as a matter of course. Thanks to a solid professional competence, good judgment and legitimate judicial practice, the courts have for a very long time established this position. The courts, and the judges as a trade group, are little visible in the public debate. I interpret this as a confirmation that the judiciary takes its constitutional role seriously, and abstains from the debates that characterise the legislative and executive powers. That is exactly why there is extra good reason to listen when judges raise their voices and point to a challenging situation. That is precisely what the judges did in connection with this year's government budget and what they are now maintaining. We have just concluded an interpellation debate on the situation in the police. That debate showed that we have major challenges both with the financial framework of the police and with the management of the funds. Now we are told by the otherwise sensible representatives of the judiciary that the financial framework in the courts is not as they should be. There is today a clear under-budgeting of the courts on the part of the Government. In the budget debate on the Justice Budget, which took place at this Chamber on 3 December, the Council of State stated that the ICT systems of the police are at rock age. This is the result of long-term underpriority. We in the Right fear that a similar situation is under development in the courts. With this interpellation, therefore, we want to have a debate on how we can avoid this. In the past, the majority and alternating governments have been aware that cases involving young offenders and custody prisons should be a priority in the courts. One option, of course, is to remove the deadlines for these cases. This will allow the courts to spend as much time on these as on other cases. However, this is a development Right-wing assumes that very few want to. The result of the government's under-budgeting of the courts is that the court administration is now implementing the employment stop nationwide. In order to be able to employ one single judge, a written application is required from each court. On the right-hand side, we appreciate the job done by the Court of Justice, as guardian of the money bag. It is not their fault that the purse is too small. The Court of Justice has given clear feedback on the need for budgetary strengthening and has specified where the money will be used in this case. Firstly, from the 2009 settlements alone, the wage-setting gap amounts to almost 40 million. kr. Secondly, if the queues of cases do not exceed the 2008 level, there is a need for 15 million. kr already in the revised budget, followed by 45 million. SEK in 2011 and 30 million. kr in 2012. From the Right, we're excited about how the Council of State comments on these numbers. The Courts have recently shown that they are able to reduce the length of proceedings. This is joyous, and there is a development the courts deserve honor for. But is it really the case that the courts have to be punished for doing well? The increased access to civil matters we now see is not just a result of the dispute law alone, since the number of cases just continues to increase. Now that the police conflict seems to have ended, as a result, we see an increase in the number of cases from the police to the courts. The Courts will become a bottleneck if the current budgetary level continues. As the right sees it, there are two main issues: Firstly, it gives rise to public unrest when suspects who the police believe they have the right to custody, when they feel the need is present, are released again. This may be either because the procedure is unsustainably long, or that there are no areas of custody to recover. Secondly, Norway has repeatedly been substantially corrected by the Council of Europe's torture committee for the treatment of smooth cell guards. Prisoners are in far too many cases long in the care of smooth cell — in some cases so long that it is referred to by the Council of Europe as torture-like conditions. This is the result of the government’s overcrowding of prisons to reduce the pay queue. Governments have been very busy reducing the pay queue throughout their working hours – a work he has done on the road a long time ago. However, there have also been several consequences that must have been clear to the Council of State. The occupation in Norwegian prisons has been very high and sometimes almost irresponsibly high. Over time, this is very demanding for both the employees and the prisoners. This priority has also been highlighted by the Council of State. On this basis, it appears strange that the Council of State would like to take credit for reduced pay queues, but refuses to take responsibility for an unsustainable care situation. The people's feeling of insecurity is a concern we politicians must take seriously. When the Justice Committee met with the Court of Justice and Oslo District Court earlier this winter, we also received two nice stories. The trial period at Oslo District Court has fallen dramatically in recent years, both in civil and criminal matters. This is very joyful. Our fear now is that the good work that has already been done results in lower budgets, and thus the queues will increase again. I have the pleasure of living in a municipality with an effective and good dish, Eiker, Modum and Sigdal District Court. Thanks to good and fast processing, it contributes to the security of the community. In the same way, the reduced remains in Oslo contribute to the care of 20 pst. of matters throughout the country, to make the capital a safer city. Right wants to facilitate the effective and effective implementation of large and small courts throughout the country of a resource situation that allows them to carry out their important work. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: How will the Council of State ensure that the objectives of the authorities on the time of trial in the courts can be achieved in a situation where the courts are in great need of increased resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2683	I thank you for the interpellation that I think is important. This is where the Right Party and the Government Party stand together. We had the same draft budget when it came to the courts, which were also adopted. But the interpellation is also important in addition to the budget, because it sheds light on a little paradoxical situation: we just concluded an interpellation that well had as a base tone that the police did not do their job, while we are now over in an interpellation that has as its base tone, as a formulation ‘that, after a long conflict between the police and the government, we have now seen an increase in cases resulting from the level of police activity’. Yes, I agree. We see better and better results from the police. There are more than 1,000 in custody. There is a situation of care, which was also discussed by the interpellant. I take full responsibility for that. That's why we're now going to open up a new prison in Halden with 252 places. That's why we're spending 20 million. kr extra to improve the maintenance capacity, and that is why we – I guess so – together with the Right must take the responsibility of ensuring that the courts do as good a job as the courts actually do. I believe that we have many heroes in criminal care, and we have many heroes in the police who are now doing a very good job. They deserve a positive light on themselves. But we certainly also have many heroes in the courts. We have Europe's fastest courts in both civil and criminal matters. It's an incredible value in being able to get a quick response. We no longer have a situation where people are waiting for years to come into adoration. For a period of time, we had almost 3,000 people who were swirling out waiting for redemption, which helped to make the reactions too late. The prerequisite for this is that the courts will be able to deliver as much as they actually do now. I would like to start with the description of the budget by saying that the operating appropriations for the General Courts in 2010 amount to approximately NOK 1.52 billion. That's an increase of about 77 million. kr in relation to the balance of the 2009 budget. In other words, the parties to the Government and the Right chose not to cut the budgets of the courts. In this increase there is compensation for wages and prices. However, the courts have also been strengthened as a result of new claims for reasons of appeal, and the Supreme Court has been strengthened by a new judgment. In addition to the increase of 77 million. NOK it's set of a total of 195 million. kr to new courtrooms in 2010, including Gulating Lawyers, which has been waiting for many, many years. It is therefore not right to say that it is cut in the overall framework of the courts. The government parties – and I don't think so either – don't want to wear it. However, on its own initiative, in line with many other public bodies, the Court of Justice has introduced a temporary suspension in the courts in order to re-prioritise funds within the budget adopted, from staff to increased investment in ICT, the work of competences and the improvement of the premises of the courts. The cessation of additions is limited and withdrawals will be replaced in the courts where the need for staffing is greatest. Prioritisation within the framework of the courts through the introduction of an addendum is an opportunity for the administration of the Court of Justice to do so as a result of its independent position. Here, it might be more topical than ever to criticize the Ministry of Justice if we were to go in and override how to govern the courts in detail. In my view, the courts have done an excellent job of streamlining cases in recent years. Oslo District Court, which was mentioned, is a strangely good example. There's a lot of good work there. But there are also many other courts that have delivered well. There is good quality in the decisions taken in Norwegian courts. We can disagree with some of them, that's the way it is. But that's good quality, and it's a good legal craft that's done evenly in many Norwegian courts. If one starts to compare with other countries' courts, I believe that the Norwegian courts are very good, thanks to the efforts not only by the current government, but also by the previous governments. This we have chosen to bet on. Case resolution statistics from the courts in 2009 underpin the momentum for rapid case resolution. For the purposes of the main proceedings, the average duration of proceedings for civil, exclusive and co-judicial disputes is good within the objectives of the Grand Duchy. For civil and co-judicial disputes, the average duration of proceedings was record-breaking. Lawyers’ rights are also finally at issue in the case of appeals against judgments in civil matters, but in criminal matters, the length of proceedings is about the same as in 2008. It has even gone so far that some, especially lawyers, claim that it is too fast. However, the 2009 figures also show, as the representative points out, that the number of cases brought in 2009 has increased so much in several courts that the length of proceedings could increase in the future. The first sign of this is the increase in the balances we saw in 2009 in several of the main courts, especially in Oslo District Courts. The Ministry of Justice is following these developments closely. We've had a meeting with Oslo object rights in particular. I will also visit several courts immediately after Easter. We are in dialogue with the Court of Justice administration on the situation. With regard to the representative’s assumption that an increase in the level of police activity is expected to lead to an increase in the need for resources in the courts, it is probably right that the Government’s strengthening of the police with a significant amount of money, which we had in place, will lead to more criminal cases. However, it is important to be aware that parts of the strengthening of the police are also to be used for crime prevention, which in the long term will help to reduce the number of cases in the courts. We see that some police districts are experiencing a decline in crime, and in this way they also have a decrease in the number of criminal cases. It's not a goal in itself to have a lot of criminal cases. The aim is to minimise criminal offences. In addition, there is a particular effort by the Government to increase the use of conflict advice, which received a significant economic increase, and mediation as an alternative to judicial proceedings, which will also help to alleviate the situation. I therefore believe that we should be aware of the budgetary situation of the courts in the future. It is followed very carefully. I have to get back to this in the future budgets. I can't pre-shoot anything. But at the same time, we can also have a look at how we work. may strengthen alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, in particular through mediation. New dispute law has been put in place. It has a very important mediation institute in itself that is going to help solve matters at an earlier stage. I believe that the courts, the prosecution authority and the police have a lot left to make the resolution of the criminal cases more rational, among other things. With the interception of evidence lists, the processes are made simpler and faster to find the points of dispute also in criminal cases, so that we do not get as bulky criminal cases as we have seen more examples of. My answer to the interpellant in this round is that the interpellant raises important questions about the description of the courts, which we must follow closely, and then you have to come back to the future budgetary rounds. And then we'll see if the Right Party and the government parties are still together on how much money the courts are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2716	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State begins by issuing a visit to the Right in terms of our satisfaction with the resolution of the police conflict, and we are, I can sign it on. But we are therefore not satisfied with the efforts of political leadership to further strengthen the police, which was the subject of the previous interpellation. The council also mentions the 77 million. kr with which the budget of the courts was increased. In a meeting of the General Judicial Committee on 23 February of this year, the Judicial Committee was informed of an analysis carried out by the Court of Justice showing that 67 p.m. Of the 77 million. kr goes to a pure increase in wages and prices. And president, with all due respect, you don't have to be a finance minister to understand that there's a difference between real and nominal dollars. 30 pst. Of the 77 million. kr goes to the new Inn-Trøndelag premises subject to fines, pure compensation for the additional work of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union. – it’s short and good so that the 77 million. kr is largely intended to cover the development of costs and to cover already necessary investments and manning positions. So there is almost no means left to strengthen the operation of national courts. Governments point out, as in the interpellation, the importance of our having an up-to-date, capable, competent, active and effective judiciary. So my question is whether there is any reason to doubt – or more precisely, perhaps: What is the Council of State's view of the Court's description of the financial situation, also in the light of the budget increase of 77 million. kr, which we agree was important?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2723	I'll be careful to advance future budgets and their likes. But I just want to say that with regard to the input of the Court of Justice to the Department both in terms of budget and in terms of the other actions being taken in the courts, I think the administration of the Court of Justice is very credible, first of all by taking the necessary steps in the courts to achieve the rapid and good results we have in the courts. It's also, as I guess it was suggested in the main post of the interpellant, so that we do feel that there have been moderate demands that have also been promoted from the courts, which makes you point to absolutely necessary challenges, and that's why I went a long way in saying that this we must now follow closely, because we see an increase in the number of things that are coming. And then you'll see what future budget rounds bring to the courts. It is absolutely vital for us when we put so much effort into fighting crime and criminal matters, whether it be violence, organized crime, the profit-criminals who travel – and you see that many of them are taken – that we have a judicial system that works and deals with those matters. There are many moves in time that also show us that we are constantly addressing many of the welfare policy challenges, which make it possible for many heavy, difficult case-law cases to be brought before the courts. I believe that the situation we now have in the courts is a prerequisite for doing effective work of a legal nature, whether it is in the fight against crime or in relation to civil law, and therefore I just have to say that the signals we receive from the Court administration, we listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2730	I share the interpellant's joy in terms of the level of activity of the police. But I have to admit that for me, it's going to be a little weird when the Right in one moment asks where the results of the police vows of the times have gone off, and then in the next moment to enjoy an activity search in the police. But don't do that. The police have undoubtedly experienced a rise under the red-green government, and it has naturally also led to several cases being brought before the court. Everything is related to everything. Strengthening the police gives more cases, we now see examples of that, and the efforts of the police are working. But then it's entertaining for a fresh growth representative to see that Right asks in one interpellation and answers in the other. Then I would like to stress that we must be able to expect that the police are now also able to do more preventive work. Police must also help to prevent crime, and in the long term we must expect the number of cases promoted by the courts to be reduced. Now, when we see that the number of cases before the courts is increasing, there's reason to be aware. I am pleased that the representative Werp addresses this in an interview, and I experience that the situation in the courts is taken seriously both from the opposition, from the position and from the Council of State. There are challenges right now, but there is still reason today to remind us that the picture is not completely black. The length of proceedings in Norwegian courts is among the lowest in Europe, and court statistics from 2009 also show that the time of proceedings in civil disputes and co-judicial cases is at a record low level. There is great reason to praise all of them as every day doing an important job in Norwegian courts. Then we also have to be able to see the whole thing and think in the long term, because it's not a goal in itself that all cases should be promoted before the courts. When we manage to resolve matters before they get into the courtroom, we save society too much resources, and it also saves the individual for the human burden it might be to have to face in a courtroom like that. a witness. That is precisely why the conflict management system is incredibly important. I'm glad that the government is betting on more use of conflict councils for young offenders, for young people who have committed crime, has a unique chance to understand what they have actually done. They are given the opportunity to repair the damage and to get help so that they do not come up with similar situations again. In the current year, the Government is strengthening the allocations to the conflict councils by 5 million. to extend the use of follow-up teams for young offenders and the testing of major youth meetings in cases where young people have committed serious and repeated crime. Therefore, conflict advice and mediation are both important and correct, and we must also expect it to remedy the situation in the courts in the long term. Then it is, as the Council of State was also in, sometimes difficult when the summits are reached on cases in the courts, to continuously adapt the manning. But I am pleased with the signals coming from the Council of State, namely that we must now follow developments in the long term. I think it's important that we think completely and long-term about the situation in the courts as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2747	I understand that this is the big day for the government parties, but I want to boast of both the previous and current interpellant to address questions that are very important for us to get Justis-Norway to work. I've heard representatives say that everything is related to everything. That's a correct observation. That's why when you give the police as much resources as you've done, you also have to follow up with the courts. The Judicial Committee has now had a dialogue with the courts. Several of us have been around visiting court-martials and court-martials, and we have also been in the Supreme Court as a committee, and then we get a different description than the tribute that the representatives of the government parties have from their policy towards the courts. There has been an increase in access to justice in 2009, particularly in the second half of 2009, and in 2010 in particular for civil cases. And there is reason to believe that if the effects of increased resources to the police come, the number of criminal cases will increase significantly beyond 2010. Increased investment in ICT is needed and interpreters are needed. Especially if the Council of State succeeds in capturing these travelling bands, this is huge expenditure. Videoconferencing equipment is also very important for relieving the police, so that people are not driven away to manufacture from e.g. Prison in Kongswinger and into Oslo District Court. What we have experienced as a judicial committee, both during the autumn of 2009 and so far in 2010, is the honesty shown by the management of the judiciary administration. It is incredibly valuable that we, as big politicians – and especially those of us who are in opposition, who do not have the same access to information as the government parties – experience officials who are so clear and say so clearly about the situation. It's an incredible respect. What is less impressive is that the State Council of Storberget and the Government were early made aware of the difficult budgetary situation in which the courts would now come in 2010. I have here a letter from the Court of Justice, dated 1 July 2009, in which the Chief Executive of the Court of Justice and the Director express great concern at the economic situation of the courts. In addition, after the adoption of the 2010 State Budget, a very serious letter from the Court of Justice signed the Director of the Court’s Administration dated 22 December 2009, notifying the consequences of the budget adopted for 2010, with a stoppage of office, a halt in investments, a stop in the course of the course of judges, etc. What I think is critical, and I think that the Council of State should respond to here, is why the Minister of Justice is unable to take on board the professional advice given by the Court of Justice on the budgetary situation. Clearly, resolving the situation in the courts is much easier than resolving the situation in the police, because the Court of Justice of Norway is a much simpler organisation. So here, if you had taken these advice in, with simple grip, you could have avoided this entire interpellation and the situation that we're in right now. And it surprises me that you are going into such a situation knowingly and willfully.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2762	I think it's good to see that new representatives in the Justice Committee have come to realize that everything is related to everything. That is what this debate is really about, in the extension of the previous one, namely how the different parts of the criminal chain are coordinated in relation to each other. It's called fine balance in the criminal justice chain. It's a concept that all of us in the Judicial Committee know quite a lot about, and that's something that the Council of State might have been even more concerned with in opposition than he's been now. During the budgetary procedure, the Right proposed something that might have been a little tricked, which should be looked at, namely to seek to investigate and implement an overall recruitment plan for the entire justice sector, so that the different parts can be adapted to each other. Some of the things that interfere with the previous interpellation, and this one, are e.g.: the establishment of Barna's House. Both the police and the courts point to major economic and practical challenges related to their use, and they do not do so for no reason. But we've adopted something politically, and then we haven't checked whether the courts and the police are necessarily able to deal with the challenge they have. This is a very good measure, but unfortunately there are some practical things related to economics, distances, small courts, small police districts, competences, etc. Recruitment to the courts could also be discussed. We see that it's not as attractive for everyone to apply to the courts as it was before. There will be greater competition for the labour force. This is something I know that the Council of State is concerned about, and that he is following. But if we look especially at e.g. So the land change rights and the salary level where versus other parts of the legal system, we see that it might be a little bit of an intriguing name. I don't think that's just the name, but like an old culture, which can seem if not repulsive, so maybe not attractive to all the young people you'd like to have. But a major challenge in the future is, in fact, securing enough people to the courts that can take care of the big tasks that the courts have. So it's not so special that two interviews point to the challenges of the police. Of course, it was just to be missing, when the police get more money from one year to another after a police crisis and they get an agreement to work more, that there should be no more cases to the courts. But the problem is that it looks like the Christmas evening came to a certain person considering how explosive the custody capacity is. It says something about why there has been a need to find out more together in the justice sector, so that not every single time comes as a shock that as soon as the police start to make a certain effort again after a conflict, they actually get pressure on the care situation, which means that they have released – even until recently – people who are repeaters. As regards the context of the criminal justice chain: the Riksrevision report can be used effectively, and I hope that there will be an open consultation on it in the control committee. At that time, it is incredibly important to focus on the very interaction between the police, the courts and criminal services in such a hearing. Because if we just discuss the court separately and the police separately, we're going to experience exactly the same challenges year after year, that you can't balance the different parts of the criminal chain. And the challenge for all of us in the Justice Committee must be that we spend a little more time checking that what we actually adopt is working. There is also part of the reason why the right here today has had two interviews – one on the police and one on the courts – just to verify whether all the laws, images, press releases sent out are consistent with the reality of the world. So if we could spend a little more than an hour on control and a little less discussion in the budget, we might experience that there was a more balance in the criminal case chain, and that you could see to an even greater extent the reason why it is important to discuss both the police and the courts on the same day, even though there are two different conflicts. So I'd like to congratulate new representatives on getting how things actually relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2780	Interpellation is about trying to be at the forefront, so that the courts do not become a bottleneck in the criminal justice chain. And so that there should be no doubt: the right will boast of the efforts you make in the courts and in the judiciary. I would warn against, as it appeared in the debate, understanding what is now happening in the judiciary, as a temporary top in the number of cases. In our opinion, there's nothing in the number material that indicates that this is transitory. Rather, it may indicate that the increased amount of cases will be constant, and even increasing, in the time to come. So here it's important that the Grand Government and the Grand Government are in the forefront, so that the judiciary and the courts do not lose the governance they depend on to meet the challenges they're facing at all times. It is an important competence that they possess, which is not necessarily built up in a larger volume in the short term. We have to keep steering and contribute to it. Then, too, the debate has made it apparent that there is an expectation gap that arises when political leadership mentions the efforts in the field of justice as the bet of the times and a historic promise. That's exactly what the Right is trying to point out in these two interpellations, that it creates a problem for all of us when those who are practically facing the problems of the day, do not feel that the big words are being translated into action and with the necessary resources, primarily in the police. We have to be careful about that, and not create the expectation gap. The same thing applies not least to the courts, that we take the signals they give seriously. We from the Right are going to follow this on. I put a positive opinion from the Council of State in that we should also look at this in common to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2791	This seems to me to have been a very positive debate, and I'm very behind the interpellant, mainly because I'm burning in front of the courts. I believe that this is a prerequisite – I just repeat it – for us to succeed in both the civil-law challenges we face and the criminal-law challenges – very important! And there's no doubt that the government doesn't want to get back at a time when there was an imbalance in the criminal justice chain. That's absolutely right, like, for example. The representative André Oktay Dahl pointed out that it was a concept we used a lot in opposition, to balance the criminal justice chain. There was no balance in the criminal justice chain when there were 3,000 people waiting for asylum in society. There was no balance in the criminal justice chain when you trained 600 fewer policemen than you do now in a four-year period, which meant getting fewer and fewer policemen out in the community. There was no balance in the criminal justice chain as we had not got enough equipment for the police, whether it was emergency networks, vests or weapons, in which there is considerable investment. There was no balance in the criminal justice chain when the investments were not started and the promise that Halden Prison gives us, for example. to meet the care situation. And there was also no balance in the criminal justice chain when we saw the trial periods that were in the courts, which are now Europe's fastest, and, in my opinion, also some of the best things we're facing. This is a situation that we want to develop further, and it is quite right that the interpellant says: Increase activity, among other things. the police, because we have been committed to the police, provide an increased need for access to the courts. So I think this has been a very good debate, and of course it will be demanding for us when we're going to adopt future budgets, but I promise to do what I'm going to and can, against it, among other things. ensuring that the courts continue to receive increased funds for their activities, in particular linked to ICT — clearly. Video conference equipment was mentioned by the representative of Kielland Asmyhr. It is certainly important if we are to be able to save even more police resources on transport and its likes. It is also very important that the courts see the new instruments given in the criminal justice chain in a constructive way. I do not agree that children's homes contribute to creating more burdens for the police and courts, especially the courts. And a lot of the essays you've seen there, I don't feel that way. That judges have to go for 10 minutes or something to get to babysitting is not primarily a budgetary issue; it has to be a cultural issue. It is also said that we should have a crew plan for the whole sector. Yeah, but that's what we're about to get. We're going to have it in criminal custody now, we've got it in the police, and we're going to have a crew analysis. I am convinced that with the good signals we have received from the Court administration as well, we are given clear signals as to how much manpower there should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2805	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2821	The starting point for this interpolation is two things. One is the world’s energy needs; the other is what Norway can contribute. It's naturally related. The world's nuclear power industry is now experiencing violent growth after many decades of relative stamina. There are 57 new reactors under construction, over 200 under construction. In particular, China and India are betting big – India is betting very big. But also in the West, the climate is changing for new investments. At the same time, the lifetime of many of the 456 existing reactors is extended. In Norway, however, the nuclear debate is more or less a taboo. It is not appropriate to build, and it has been inappropriate to talk about spending money on almost some aspects of nuclear power. State power was bold, and a few years ago they studied a little around thorium, but when Focus had a series of programs about it, Statkraft scrambled his study immediately — one just shouldn't do in Norway — and that despite the fact that Norway as a nation was at an early stage in nuclear physics and nuclear testing, and despite our dependence on nuclear power to have a stable energy supply at home. This winter, with a difficult power situation, has illustrated this, when even our prime minister has more or less accused Sweden of not producing enough nuclear power, and thus made problems at home. It's almost a parodic approach all the time when most Norwegian politicians, to the extent that they've cared about Swedish nuclear power, have wanted to shut down the reactors. So now we haven't had enough of them. And so it may also seem that one has become more prayerful than expected, because on Tuesday the Swedish government put forward a plan to open up to build up to ten new nuclear reactors to replace existing nuclear reactors, which are now approaching the end of their lifetime. Although the number of reactors is the same, they will have much greater output than the current ten reactors have. There are also things happening in Finland. There we know that they build one, and have plans for up to three more nuclear power plants. It's being built in France. The U.S. at President Obama has just gone out and said that they will provide guarantees in the construction of nuclear power plants – that is probably four of his specific aims, but in many states there are major plans. This has not been completely problem-free, because this nuclear power plant in Finland has significantly exceeded its budget and has been delayed, but industry expects that with the size of projects now, they will also have a learning curve that makes them better at both design and implementation. We also see polls in Sweden show that half of the population are positive about replacing today's nuclear power plant, another quarter will build more than they have today. Investments in Sweden and Finland and in many other countries show that renewable energy alone is not sufficient to meet the world’s energy demand without CO2 emissions. Nuclear power plants in this context provide significant power volumes both in terms of costs and area. Obama’s nuclear guarantee scheme must also be seen in the context of his commitment to making the United States independent of imported oil daily, and then he sees that although renewable energy will mean a great deal, nuclear power will be essential in order to achieve those objectives. The Energy and Environment Committee has recently been in England and has been presented for a significant investment in sea wind turbines and an equivalent significant commitment to nuclear power. The difference was that while the wind turbines could be subsidized by about 1 kr per. kWh, they expected the nuclear power stations to stand on their own bones, without subsidies. According to the World Energy Outlook 2009 International Energy Agency, nuclear power is that technology with the highest percentage growth. When we look at EU funding for research programmes, where CO2 treatment is often brought forward in the Norwegian debate, the allocation of nuclear research in the EU is greater than it is for CO2 treatment. In this context, Norway should have many and significant interests in participating in what is happening, and should follow the development of nuclear power in other countries and contribute to its safest use. All our neighbouring countries, except Denmark, have nuclear power, and in all these countries a new nuclear power is also planned. An accident will undoubtedly affect us. Nuclear power stations that exist or are being built must be as safe as possible – also because we rely on their energy to provide a robust energy supply in the Nordic region and hence in Norway. Norway has small but strong nuclear environments. We were, as I said initially, early out with nuclear research, and our environments are still recognised in this work. The reactors at Halden and Kjeller were among the first to be built, and they are internationally known for research purposes. There is also a growing interest in nuclear power/nuclear physics at our universities, and at NTNU in Trondheim, it is now possible to take classes that go on nuclear power. Our supplier industry can be given a job to meet the needs of the nuclear industry. A special example there is within concrete, where we have got many things built of concrete to assume strange shapes and flow. Building new nuclear power is a significant effort. The Norwegian Veritas has a high level of competence in risk assessment also in nuclear power plants. In fact, the Halden project is Norway's largest international research project, with 100 member organisations and companies from 18 countries. In spite of this, there are several parties in this Chamber who have decided that it should be closed. This shows some of the challenges of using nuclear physics and nuclear research in Norway at all. The Halden reactor was established as early as 1958. Nuclear safety is being researched, and it is all managed by the Institute of Energy Engineering and the Institute of Atomic Energy. Only research into nuclear safety is so controversial in Norway that some batches will shut it down. The Holden environment is responsible for the design of control rooms and for the training of operators in control rooms. They are the leaders in fuel safety research. They see how the fuel rods react to different types of stresses like pressure and heat while the reactor is running. It's actually the only reactor in the world where you do that. The trust in the Norwegian environment is particularly strong, perhaps among others. because Norway is independent and independent in relation to the major nuclear power companies. So we have no self-interest as a nuclear power nation that prioritizes what anyone can perceive as a secret agenda. And when the world is now focusing on nuclear power, whether you like it or not, Norway should contribute as much as we can. The Thorium Committee presented its report in February 2008. It was sent out to a wide-ranging hearing, and quite a number of consultation responses have been received. [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2873	That means everyone has to get out, and the representative Solvik-Olsen will of course get the word if and when we get back in. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. Nineteen-ninth. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 20.13.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2880	For those who had to cheat, the president can tell that there was frying in the kitchen that triggered the fire alarm, it was not the discussion of any radiation hazards associated with radioactivity or the kind of thing. Ketil Solvik-Olsen was in the process of carrying out his post, and is given the opportunity, with a somewhat more liberal time, to conclude it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2885	Thank you, President. To the delight of new listeners, I can say that we have had a review of the nuclear situation with many new nuclear power plants during planning and construction, that the world's energy needs will probably be met by more nuclear power than they have been, that Norwegian nuclear power environments have been both early out and have contributed a lot to the process since the 1950s, and that we have a recognised environment, especially around Halden and Kjeller in terms of nuclear safety development. Then I found out what is really the point of the interpellation, namely, to challenge the Government in relation to the work of the Thorium Committee, which I believe was a good arrow and the precursor of such Norway should continue to work with nuclear power – not with the goal of building something as quickly as possible, such a debate I know would be derailed immediately. And there's no point in our national energy supply either. With the natural resources we have, we can make better use of water, wind, bioenergy and gas – and more like things at sea and deep into the earth. It meets our needs, without us having to discuss nuclear power in Norwegian soil. But with the situation around us, it's interesting. The Thorium Committee studied a resource that is a complement to uranium, thus making energy supply even more flexible and even more robust, and pointed out how Norway can contribute to research and development both around thorium technology and also in relation to more traditional nuclear power in terms of developing third-generation nuclear power plants and fourth-generation nuclear power. The third generation is now being built in Finland. The committee pointed to the need to increase our human resources through university studies and to allow our nuclear environments to be included in Euratom. The report of the Thorium Committee was both ground-based and nuanced by the fact that these issues were discussed. The Thorium Committee's report was sent out to a wide-ranging hearing, and there were quite a number of good hearings – a fifty, if I don't remember any faults – where it was probably only the environmental movement that was critical. Among all the others, both business actors, research actors and academies, it was a positive attitude to what the Thorium Committee said – not a positive attitude that should be interpreted to the point of building nuclear power, but a positive attitude to the fact that this is a theme and a resource where Norway has the potential to be a contributor and where we have small but robust environments that can be further developed. We know, as I mentioned earlier, that on NTNU it is now possible to study a little bit about nuclear physics, and there are people taking the master degree around the theme. It's been a long time since it happened last time, and it's an expression of something positive. I want the Council of State to say a little about whether there are any visions about this: how Norway should contribute, and make sure that the Halden environment feels safe that they will not be abandoned as a result of resistance to nuclear power stations in Norway, but that what they contribute is so valuable that it is something that will be guaranteed in the future and actually stimulate, as well as that one can develop an environment that stands together across research environments, business, academics and politics to contribute here. Not that this has to go at the expense of what we're betting on in terms of renewable energy, but this has to be one of the pillars where we're involved and contribute as an energy nation. We should remember that when the IEA talks about this area, nuclear power is one of the four thematic areas. Unfortunately, this theme area is left out in the Norwegian debate, but this should be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2898	We'll see if I'm more happy to be able to give the reasoning in the context. I want to start by saying that the representative Solvik-Olsen has an important point in the introduction to his post, considering that the energy demand is going to increase significantly in the future. In an international context, it means increasing investment in all energy sources, including – as the representative says – nuclear energy. So I don't think that means that Norway is going to bet on it. Norway is an energy nation. We carry proud traditions. We have over 100 years of hydropower experience, over 40 years of oil and gas experience. We are the third exporter of gas in the world, the seventh largest on oil exports, and the sixth largest on hydropower generation. This means that we are contributing to the world’s energy supply – far beyond our population – but we are not contributing as we know it when it comes to nuclear power. Earlier today, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and I held a press conference with General Electric on marine wind investments in Norway. GE’s decision to establish itself further in Norway is a major victory for Norway, and it is not least an illustration that Norwegian competence and Norwegian business are in close international. GE will invest significant amounts in research, development and also demonstration and production of marine wind turbines in Norway in the years to come. It's a bet that means we're getting new high-skilled jobs in Norway. The company should build a marine wind technology centre in Oslo and also plans to increase the production of wind turbines in Verdal. Why are they doing this in Norway? Well, because our companies and research institutions have world-class skills in the areas you're looking for. It is believed that the combination of offshore and energy competence and marine competence will give them a competitive advantage that will enable this investment to take place. In addition, we have good framework conditions and offensive policies in this area. As regards nuclear power, the representative Solvik-Olsen has addressed this issue on different occasions in recent years. The last time we discussed this was in Stortinget on 2 December 2008 in connection with a proposal for a representative. Globally, nuclear energy is an important part of the energy balance today — as is the case in Europe. It is true that a number of countries are looking at the possibilities of escalating their investment in this area. In addition, several countries, which do not have nuclear power today, look at the possibilities of building such facilities. A prerequisite for increased deployment of nuclear power in the future is that nuclear power is perceived as being safe. The Harrisburg catastrophes in 1979 and Chernobyl in 1986 have made mankind painfully aware of it. The representative of Solvik-Olsen calls for a wide-ranging debate on the role of Norway in research and development of safe nuclear energy. We have spent a long time researching nuclear power, which the representative was also involved in, but mainly in safe operation and waste management. The reactors in Halden and Kjeller came into operation as early as the 1950s. I find it interesting that this competence has given significant added value, including: Through these reactors, the Institute of Energy Engineering has now developed excellent material technology environments. We are providing significant funding for nuclear safety research in Norway today. IFE receives nearly 40 million. kr to this this this year. But I would like to stress that the policy in this area is firm. I don't see it as relevant to do more in the area. I also heard the representative Solvik-Olsen say that this is not a matter of building nuclear power plants in Norway now. I do not think that is absolutely necessary, nor do I want to call for the research effort to be stepped up at the expense of other areas. The setting that Stortinget last made in this area in a similar case shows that there was no support in the hall for it. But I want to comment something more about this. The issue of thorium, addressed by the representative, and the report of the Thorium Committee in 2008, has been identified as such. It is true, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen said, that the sample was positive that Norway should step up its nuclear activity. It is also true that many of the hearing opinions were positive. But sailing if there is a part that has such an opinion doesn't mean that I think it's right for Norway to use considerable resources to work in the nuclear field. Nor, in my view, does the report of the Thorium Committee provide a basis for neither supporting nor rejecting thorium for long-term energy production. Firstly, there is uncertainty about the Norwegian incidences and their value. Secondly, thorium for use in nuclear power generation does not eliminate the problem of residues; the problem is less likely to occur. Thirdly, considerable research and development remains before thorium-based nuclear power can become a reality. It means – with this framework around us, that we are a great energy nation, but at the same time a small country – that we must give priority. We can't bet on everything. I think the visit we had to today's presentation with GE is a good example that when we focus on what we actually have competence on, we can evolve to be world leaders in areas of energy. We see it generally in the energy field now that in a number of areas we are at the forefront of technology. On oil and gas, there's no doubt that we are. At carbon capture and storage, we are also at the top of the world in terms of development and technology levels. We also look at new technologies, such as salinity – where Statkraft is at the front – and the development of different marine power generators/tidal water generators. Here we have environments in Norway that are at the top of the world, and as we know, we also have the only floating windmill in Norway. Then we have the solar photovoltaic supply industry, which is at the top of the world, and in terms of energy efficiency, we are also not poorly placed in terms of the level of competence. I believe this shows that we have done a lot of right in developing areas where we have competence and where we have the opportunity to be at the top of the world, and I think it would be wrong to fragment our efforts more in the future. I hear the representative Solvik-Olsen say this should not be at the expense of anything. It's possible that you can allow yourself to say that. I can't do it in my position – there's always a balance between different resource uses. One can't just say that one should bet more on something and at the same time think that one should bet the same amount on everything else. This is not the way the world is when it comes to the problem and one is going to assess the use of resources in different fields. I believe that I have also seen in other debates on energy in this Chamber that the same representative has thought that there should be much more to be done in other areas as well. It's about prioritizing, we're not getting away from it. Then I think it would be wrong now to channel more resources into an area where we don't have the same assumptions to be in the top of the world that we have in the areas I've just mentioned. We have an offensive policy in meeting the challenges of environmentally friendly energy production. We have raised the budgets in this area also in terms of research, and we have followed up both climate and individual budgets in terms of both spending more money on existing schemes and establishing mechanisms such as: Environmental energy research centres, which are designed to help raise the various areas I have mentioned, further in the coming period. So for me, this is about priority. I believe that we should give priority to areas where we are strong, where we have a significant industry, where we have research actors who – together with our political desires – have an ambition to raise the level forward. Our contribution to meeting the world's energy needs, therefore, in order to meet the climate challenges, must be concentrated above all on those areas where we are already at a global level.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2938	I record an answer that I think is very disappointing, but that would like to live up to the spirit of former Minister of Energy Åslaug Hagas. Because I think there are many shortcomings in the arguments that are being promoted. One of the reasons why I raised this debate is that I believe that Norway has a world-class environment that can contribute to this. The Halden environment is world-class in terms of safety, in terms of design of control rooms, in terms of testing the safety of reactors while in operation – it can be further developed. That's where we're leading. That doesn't mean you need to take the entire engineering knowledge that lies in the oil industry, in the windmill industry and the hydropower industry and transfer it there. This is special competence. But it's usually a capital-intensive area, which thus doesn't need major priorities resourcefully, but it would probably have been okay. We're world-class in concrete. The fact that we get things out of concrete to float out into the sea, that we know how important concrete is as a foundation – which has been one of the major problems of Olkilouto in Finland – should be an inspiration for Norwegian business and for the authorities. Flow technique/flow physics is very important for the oil industry. Some of the professors I've spoken to say that on the day oil engineers become unemployed, they need an evening course – then they're ready to run nuclear physics. This is said very simply, I'm aware of that, but it says a little bit about that we have a basis that can also be exploited in this direction. Priorities – yes, I can give priority. Red-green politicians have said that it is cheap to spend 27 billion dollars on cleaning Kårstø. I'm not going to charge $27 billion for nuclear research in Norway, but $1. by it would have been reasonable as a start. But just by saying that Mongstad is our moon landing – to use the government's terminology – for CO2 cleaning, and then we're going to take that money from Kårstø and dedicate it to climate and energy research, some of which goes to nuclear power, I've already prioritised. One may have great visions about sea windmills. I also think it's exciting what's happening to GE, to all intents and purposes. But I'm recording that this government wire in this room on March 11, 2010 said he didn't think it was going to be built commercial sea windmills in Norway for the next ten years. Ergo is very far ahead in time. What we notice when we travel around the world is that those who are going to bet on wind turbines are talking about subsidies, and those who are going to bet on nuclear power are saying this is going to be on their own. Then we have to ask ourselves, if we're going to put our capital into something that has market potential: is that where the subsidies are greater, or is that where you're standing on your own feet that the market potential is greater? The challenge here is that marine wind turbines have their function. But if you don't get the costs down, they're going to be out of competition with nuclear power, and then it doesn't give us very much income in the long term. It was just a consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2955	It is a very defensive message that the representative Solvik-Olsen ends his speech here now. The essence, as far as I can hear, is that renewable energy – like offshore wind – is too expensive, we get to let it lie down and give priority or at least spend more money on what is profitable in the short term. The reality is that just offshore wind is a glittering example of an area where priority is needed from different national authorities to reduce costs and bring up technology levels in order to make use of the renewable energy resource in the future. It's a very good example of a priority we're facing. I hear the representative of Solvik-Olsen saying, that he thinks it's a little too expensive, a little too long to go, now to use resources on offshore wind. I disagree with that, because I think it's a great future and waiting for us there, but we don't get there without authority involvement. And then we see through what we've now done with GE, that by having technology environments in that area, we're also attractive to foreign companies. We can build on it, get up a cluster/cluster of technology on offshore wind. That's a very good example of why we need to give priority, and why we need to want something in the energy sector into areas that we think we're going to get further into in the future than where we are now. I have no doubt that if we chose the simple path, setting up nuclear power plants in Norway in the short term would be a more reasonable solution. Getting some breakthroughs in relation to research could also be better in nuclear power than in offshore wind. But I disagree. That's the priority we're going to take, because I believe and believe very strongly that the technological rites we have to take in, for example. offshore wind, is necessary to take into account what the world requires in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2962	I also want to start my post by giving the representative Solvik-Olsen the fundamental right in his initial analysis of the world's energy needs. But the consensus stops there, too. Claiming that the representative Solvik-Olsen is a lukewarm follower of nuclear power stations on Norwegian soil would not be telling the truth. Solvik-Olsen is perhaps the closest thing we're going to be to an expedient nuclear activist in Norway. It's not the first time it's expressed in the main hall. It is claimed that thorium-based nuclear power plants cannot be compared to uranium-based nuclear power plants, because thorium-based power plants do not have the same challenges. That I believe is to substantiate important facts. Mine and the Workers' Party's resistance to nuclear power stations on Norwegian soil is not a result of a position based on dogmas and misunderstandings, or prejudice, for that matter. The resistance is versatile, but it can be summed up along two main lines. Point one: Norway is a major energy nation with special energy advantages in relation to petroleum and renewable energy. At the same time, when you don't have unlimited resources, it's smart minds or other resources, it actually becomes a discussion of priorities. The working party is precisely characterized by our ability and willingness to make choices through priorities. That's why we've chosen two main tracks for our future energy deployment, carbon capture and storage efforts, and the expansion and development of renewable energy. The representative Solvik-Olsen has repeatedly drawn out the IEA report in this Chamber, which says that we are going to be dependent on fossil energy for many years to come – although I have to say that I think it is interesting that the representative in this context is concerned about giving the oil engineers something to do after the oil comes to an end. But we're going to depend on fossil energy for a long time, and then CCS is an extremely important bridge builder to the renewable. Over perhaps 40–50 years, we are going to see a paradigm shift in world energy supply, new renewable technologies are going to break through. And yes, we have the presence of thorium in Norway, but it just can't be compared to the occurrence we have of wind, waves, salt water, sun and biomass. This is about how we control the limited research resources we have. We are convinced that the future is renewable technology. I am among those who are very pleased with the news we received today that GE is coming with its sea wind bet to Norway, as among others. will lead to a large technology development centre in Oslo. Point two: Despite the appearance of thorium as a better technological solution than conventional nuclear power based on uranium, there are significant challenges associated with this material that have not been solved either. One factor is the problem of waste. Large amounts of radioactive waste must be handled and stored. A number of countries in the world that have invested in nuclear power plants have not satisfactorily solved this challenge. We're talking, after all, about radioactive waste that has disastrous consequences with unwanted dispersal – waste that has a degradation time of hundreds of years, and maybe longer than that. Another factor is that the installations themselves are a potential hazard in given situations. We know, for example. nuclear power stations may be the subject of terrorist threats, human error, etc. Then I am aware that melting down is no longer a problem when talking about thorium, but an explosion will in any case lead to waste on the way. Do we really want to expose ourselves to these significant challenges when this is not necessary? The answer to that question is from the Workers' Party's side a very unambiguous no. While we are discussing thorium, there are several countries that have traditional conventional nuclear power stations under construction around the world. We're going to have access to cheap uranium in the world for many, many years to come, maybe decades to come. That's not the situation for thorium. Nuclear power is an incredibly intense debate in the European Union, and I would like the Progress Party to take a greater position in that debate. So here we're talking about one or two generations can create a waste problem for 10,000 generations after us. What is the attitude of the Progress Party towards conventional nuclear power? It's very rarely discussed in this room, and we should also get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e2977	We have recently discussed the short-term challenges of energy supply in Norway on several occasions, after a winter in which prices have gone to heaven in parts of the country. These have been important debates and it should be a priority task to find good solutions to these challenges. Today’s debate, on the other hand, is about the long-term opportunities for Norway as an energy nation. These are possible solutions for how the world can cope with today’s use of fossil energy sources, with the potential impacts on the climate and living conditions of the earth, and on the future’s emission-free energy sources. The biggest challenge facing the world today is to combine developing countries’ and rapidly growing new industrialised countries – such as China, India and Brazil – with increasing energy needs in the years to come, while at the same time reducing greenhouse gas emissions in order to save the climate, and thus the living conditions, here on earth. To meet this challenge, we need to avoid the long-term combustion of fossil energy sources and shift it to non-emission-free energy sources. Renewable energy sources, such as hydropower, wind power, bioenergy and solar energy, will have to play an important role here. It is important to continue to invest in these energy sources both through research and technology development, the pricing of CO2 emissions from fossil energy sources, and support for renewable energy through green certificates. However, nuclear power will also play an important role. Nuclear power already plays a major role in the world’s energy supply. Nuclear power accounted for about 6 pst in 2007. of the world's primary energy supply. This is an increase from below 1 pst. in 1973. Focusing on the climate challenge, the production of nuclear energy in the world is likely to increase significantly in the coming years. Although we do not have nuclear power plants in this country, nuclear power is also important in Norway's energy supply. I would like to remind you that it was actually lost by Swedish nuclear power due to operating problems and necessary maintenance that was the main cause of the very high power prices especially Mid-Norway experienced this winter. We with our hydropower-based power generation were clearly shown how dependent we are on the import of nuclear power from our neighbouring countries during periods of the year with low rainfall and water in the warehouses. We should therefore be careful to be too bastant in our rejection of nuclear power. It can easily seem a little bit sacred to the skin. In the coming years, new nuclear power generation in Finland will be an important contributor to the Nordic power market’s building up a significant surplus of power. The problems with nuclear power are well known. The storage of highly hazardous radioactive waste is going on for hundreds of years to come, the risk of serious accidents that can have significant consequences, and the risk of radioactive material being used for the development of nuclear weapons. These are serious objections to nuclear power and the reason why it has not been relevant for the Right to engage in nuclear power in Norway with today's technology. In the future, however, this may look different. The development of the salt-melting reactor, with thorium as a source of energy instead of uranium, is exciting and can reduce counter-representation against nuclear power. The salt-melting reactor produces less waste with a long half-life, safety is much better than with traditional nuclear power, and thorium cannot be used for nuclear weapons. At the same time, the energy potential is enormous. It has been claimed that the saline melting reactor can be the civil energy mechanism that both removes the Chernobyl scare and solves the climate challenge. This is therefore an energy source Right-wing believes it is important to look into it. Moreover, the fact that we can sit in Norway with some of the world's largest thorium deposits does not make it any less interesting to develop this technology. The Norwegian resources of thorium have a potential energy content that is about a hundred times as much as all the oil we have produced so far on the continental shelf, plus all the remaining reserves. So it's an enormous energy potential we're talking about here. To this end, the right supports initiatives to research and develop nuclear power in Norway with thorium as a fuel. I am therefore pleased that the interpellant addresses this issue today. In January 2008, the government-appointed Thorium Committee presented its report. It was a good report, written by the leading Norwegian and international experts on thorium technology. It is important that this report not only disappears into a drawer, as I unfortunately have the impression that it has done at the Government, but that it actually leads to the further development of this energy source and its opportunities through research and demonstration projects. The government is apparently willing to spend tens of billions on its moon landings, but as far as the development of thorium technology is concerned, which can make an equally important contribution to meeting the climate challenge – at least in the long term – the government seems to be completely passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3003	The construction of nuclear power stations around the world, to which Solvik-Olsen's representative explained very carefully before the alarm went on, is not necessarily an argument for starting a debate on development and construction in Norway. With the assumptions Norway has in order to further develop our status as a major force in the field of clean renewable energy, it is not necessarily wise to focus on other, difficult investments. But that is only a practical argument. It is far more crucial that nuclear power is a highly problematic source of power, and it is probably not with life and joy and great joy that many countries have become dependent on nuclear power. We know from our own history that nuclear power does not exactly strike the population. I have to add that I don't remember it myself, but when I was a kid, the home contained both stickers and shopping networks with “Atomkraft?” No thanks mark. It was a lot of homes that did. It is therefore a somewhat biased image that the interpellant presents when it is presented as if everyone, just not the environmental movement, is positive to nuclear power. In this case, I am sure that the environmental movement has very large populations in its back. The experience of Sweden is interesting here, and more rich than the production of the Progress Party. The huge commitment of the population in the country to landfills in the local environment that we saw in Sweden for many years is not an expression of the well-known concept of not in my backyard, which is quite understandable and very responsible. I feel very sure that a debate on construction in Norway will produce similar reactions and commitment. I don't think a single municipality in Norway is ready or willing to store the very dangerous waste we get from nuclear power. It is in itself irresponsible to meet its own generation of energy needs by resorting to power sources that generate huge waste, waste for which future generations must bear responsibility and fear, and it has existed for a longer time than human civilizations have so far. These are huge time perspectives we're talking about. That others do, I mean, and SV is a non-argument. When we're going to make our contribution to solving the world's climate and energy crisis, we have a huge potential for environmentally friendly energy that the minister explained very well. A turnaround in research efforts will lead to less resources for this effort. To establish that there is no personal attack on those working with nuclear physics in Norway, as interpellant almost suggested in its article. It's the opposite of holding onto, among other things. the priorities we have set, which represent future, not only climate and energy, but also too much of our industry in the field of renewable energy at sea. Finally, I note that there has been a turnaround in the Progress Party's approach to the debate on nuclear power, for now the representative Solvik-Olsen says that he no longer wants to raise a debate on the rapid construction of nuclear power plants in Norway. It is not long since the Party's fraction in the Committee on Energy and the Environment had a different position than that. Although the representative shakes his head, it is true that in 2008, Tord Lien, for example, called for the construction of a nuclear power plant in Orkdal. It didn't fall into very good soil in the home state. And I don't think that's an exception, I think it's symptomatic of any matter involving the construction of nuclear power plants. It is not desirable, it is not popular, nor is it necessary in Norway. On the contrary, it may prove to be striking our legs under much more important initiatives for our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3019	There is no doubt that the energy demand in the world will increase. Nor is there any doubt that energy production in the world needs to increase. If this whole increase comes in the form of fossil energy use, it can have disastrous consequences for the climate on earth. It does not rock, however, at the center party's basic position. We're opposed to Norway producing energy based on nuclear power. We mean that research on nuclear power should not be a priority task. We should give priority to our main action in other areas. Those who want to bet on nuclear power forget the serious history of nuclear expansion has had. A series of serious accidents at nuclear power stations in the 1980s slowed down developments, including: Three Mile Island accident in 1979. Furthermore, most of us will remember Chernobyl accidents in 1986, which affect not only the neighbourhoods of today's Ukraine but also Europe and Norway. In the last two years, it has also been what we can call serious events at nuclear power stations. Those who are adherents of nuclear power will point out that there is not this kind of first, second and third generation nuclear power plant we're going to bet on in the future, and they're probably right in it. Technological innovations are likely to ensure future nuclear power stations better than current ones. However, it does not solve the basic problem of waste and security. There is currently no safe way to get rid of spent nuclear fuel, and no way to degrade the waste. Atomic waste can only be saved, not undamaged. Some waste residues are to be kept away from man and nature in excess of unimaginable 100,000 years. So, the challenges are passed on to the next generations, and people who are not yet born must bear the burden of what is our time producing energy. This is in direct contradiction to the Central Party's administrative thinking. The representative of Solvik-Olsen has pointed to the report of the Thorium Selection. Although thorium waste would require shorter storage times than traditional nuclear waste, it will certainly require long-term storage. Thorium contains, among others: two types of long-lived radionuclides with a half-life of 32,000 and 7 340 years respectively. This therefore requires very long-term storage. Accidents or the diversion of waste can have disastrous consequences. Nuclear power generation transfers great challenges to the generations that come after us. This is against the Center Party's ideology. The central party's main objection to nuclear power is that it's not resilient. On the other hand, Norway has large and good resources in terms of energy that is actually resilient. That's enough to remind you of the debate recently, when the marine energy laws were signed. In addition, we have considerable resources and knowledge of hydropower and bioenergy and many new forms of energy production. I have used this post to stretch below the Centre Party's resistance to Norwegian nuclear power production. Interpellant has focused most on research and development. There are arguments for researching nuclear power, even if it does not produce nuclear power, but again policies are about prioritizing. Then, in the view of the Centre Party, Norway must focus most on the renewable energy sources on which our country is so rich – both in terms of production and in terms of research. We need to give priority to the resources where we can really get the counting and get the best. It's not on nuclear power, but it's extracting the enormous potential we have in bio, water, wind and other renewable sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3036	Unfortunately, this became a more sad debate than I had feared. In particular, I note the way in which the Council of State intervenes in my second article. There he grips a straw straw and twists my message to be that I should bet on nuclear power rather than on sea windmills. I think I was pretty clear in my statement that if there's something I'm going to prioritize away, there's no point in using tens of billions of dollars on Kårstø. One can get a lot of fun in terms of both sea windmills, nuclear power, hydropower, bioenergy and geothermal heat for the 10-27 billion kroner the government estimates to use there. I agree that renewable energy should be one of our areas of activity. And it's going to be a wide bet area, dealing with both water, wind, bioenergy, geothermal energy and offshore wind. Tomorrow, the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition will make a proposal on this. The Progress Party and others in the opposition also promoted proposals for a strategy for offshore wind power in the previous period. It was voted down by the government parties. I'm, as I said, very pleased with what General Electric, GE, is doing. But let's not forget that GE invests in many countries today. It is not just in Norway that they have advertised the bet. The wind turbine factory will not be added to Norway, it will be added to England. It's England that gets the largest investment pot from GE today. The main research on the turbines was added to Germany, and then the offshore section comes to Norway. It's far from a complete structure we have. It is an important part for Norway as a supplier industry. I again point out that the Council of State itself has said that he does not think it will be built commercial wind turbines in Norway for the next ten years. I also think we should take that into account. Smart heads work internationally. We don't have to fear engineering shortages if we set up good research projects. We also see that in the petroleum industry. Among the doctoral students at the University of Stavanger are probably two Norwegian and 90–95 foreign students. There is no problem in recruiting foreign labour in terms of neither sea windmills, nuclear power, petroleum nor hydropower, if we have the right programmes. I mentioned oil engineers, not just because they're going to have something to live by after the oil – the oil is going to be with us for generations yet – but because they represent a cluster of skills that can be further developed, in the same way as one has the cluster of skills in the industry that develops the solar industry in Norway, and not political programs. There are no Norwegian support schemes that have made solar cells a success in Norway, it is foreign. In the case of waste, I see that both Sweden and Finland have come very far, much further than the representatives of the red-green parties give the impression. And what's also alarming is that in terms of the new storage pathways that they're planning to build, they don't think about plumbing those spaces, because they think that this will be resources, this will be raw material, in the next generation. Norway cannot adopt what the EU should do on the nuclear side. We can help to make what they do safer, more efficient and less waste. It was my attempt in this debate here, but I see that I am speaking for deaf ears, except for a good partner for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3057	I don't think it's that much to add from my side. I think the debate has clearly shown that there is a little different willingness to prioritise in this Chamber. Some of us have a clear sense that priority is needed to succeed in renewable energy in the future. The representative of Solvik-Olsen disagrees that this is what the priority debate must be about in the future. It is an honest matter in itself, but I am absolutely convinced that we are going the farthest in Norway to give a clear priority in the areas where we now have good competence, and where we also have a plan to further develop energy production in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3064	That being the case, it is no. 9 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3095	At least I want to have good ambitions that in this debate we relate to each other's arguments, whether we disagree or not, rather than twist what is the message. But let me go straight to the case. The competitiveness of Norwegian business and the competitiveness of a climate quota system is the theme here. This is not a challenge as to whether to have climate allowances or whether to have a cut target. It is also in agreement with the Progress Party. The question is: how should this be organised in order to obtain the best possible result in the short and long term, both for the world and for Norway? Power-processing industry will be the biggest theme here. There is a significant export industry in Norway. The power-generating industries are important for employment and value creation and are corner stone holdings in many places in the country. This is a capital intensive industry that must be long-term in its investments, usually with a time horizon of 40 to 50 years, and it must have predictability. It competes largely on the global market. I have traveled around the country, and I have since visited most power-generating industrial businesses, from the List in the south to Finnfjord in the north. There are many themes that deal with them, such as: the prices of raw materials, which are often a global assumption that cannot be addressed, and all competitors are subject to the same pricing. When it comes to labour, Norway is a high-cost country, but we have a productive workforce that can defend the level of costs, and that's fine. There are two themes that one still expresses concern about: one is energy that I should not particularly touch on here. The second is the CO2 costs and the framework conditions for this. This industry is exposed in an international market — it lives on the margins. The aluminium industry has a price of aluminium, regardless of emissions and regardless of resource use. This requires predictability on some cost frameworks. Some of the inputs, as I have mentioned, are given in the world market, and some are given by political authorities. Compared to the CO2 quota market, there are two things affecting the industry. One is the allocation of allowances for their direct emissions. The second is the cost of CO2 contained in the energy purchase. I refer in particular to the European power market, where the CO2 ratios of coal power bring up electricity prices in a way that companies located outside the EU do not get at their electricity prices. In this debate, I do not want the Council of State to give concrete figures on how much a single enterprise should be allocated by quotas, what the price should be, or what the development should be. I'm just looking for one thing, and there's a fundamental clarification about non-discrimination in the Norwegian system versus in the EU. This can therefore be a very short debate. Let me still explain why I'm doing it. It's because it has a connection with history. In many ways, the government has boasted of having the most stringent climate quota strategy in the world. Then you'd think it had something to do with us being the ones who manage to cut the emissions the most – that we don't use all of our allowances, but actually eliminate some of them, and thus cut faster than you had expected. But that's not the case. Looking at what is defined as a tight climate quota system, or as an offensive climate quota system, it's about how much is allocated to industry free of charge. The Norwegian Government allocates less free allowances to industry than the competing companies do. Now, this system was not as bad as it was originally supposed to be, because the Storting first adopted the climate quota law once, with significant restrictions in Norway versus the EU, but this was complained to ESA. The Norwegian Government lost and had to allocate more or less allowances to the existing process emissions industry, at EU level – for energy emissions, somewhat less. The problem lies in the fact that new industry, established after 2005, does not receive free quotas from the Norwegian Government. It's a favorite of the established industry, that is, of those who have the old technology. Those who come in with new technology will have an extra competitive advantage. Not only do they have to invest in capital, but they also get a CO2 cost that the competitors that exist in Norway do not have. It's a problem because none of these industries have technology that's CO2 free. Of course, if the aluminium industry could show that there are commercial clean-up technologies that can eliminate emissions, it would have been a point, because then they would have been forced to invest in clean-up technology immediately. But that technology doesn't exist. Even though Elkem is talking about his carboermic processes, they're talking about something that likes to cut the emissions by 30 pst. So it's a long way to go until you cut them 100 pst. It just means sementing an industrial structure in Norway where the old survive and the new invest elsewhere. The problem is also that when you reinvest, you invest elsewhere. Then one ends up gradually building up Norwegian industry, with these conditions. It is a problem because the demand for the products supplied by the Norwegian industry does not change on the world market – it is maintained. This means that competitors in other countries will have increased demand for their production, will have a basis for establishing new production lines — and thus simply shift output, shifting emissions. But the Norwegian accounts are improved. Unfortunately, it seems that it is the most important thing in this case. I think that is absolutely not the most important thing. What the government should have as its starting point is what the global impact of national measures is. If Norwegian measures result in both global reductions in CO2 emissions and national emission reductions, it is positive. If a Norwegian measure results in Norwegian emissions reductions with global increases, it is in no way positive. That's what we see is the consequence if you stick to what is the framework conditions. It is true that the conditions have not been long enough for it to begin to have very visible consequences. When you talk to actors in the business world, and in the industry, it's obvious that that's what they think. No one is going to shut down a business overnight, but the next time they're going to reinvest and the next time they're going to start maintaining, it's going to be a problem. At the latest today, I spoke to an actor in a major industrial company who indicated that when they, who are now owned by a foreign company, took over this factory in the West, the former owner over a long time had not believed in the company and had stopped maintaining it. They took over something similar to the Nikel melting plant – nothing worked. But because they now had a long-term perspective, they had implemented a comprehensive modernisation programme. Of course that's the consequence. The first thing you do is stop the maintenance because you want to drive the company into the sunset. This fundamental clarification that I am calling for is therefore very important, because if they know that they can trust that the Norwegian Government will give allowances at the same level as they do in the EU, the level of allowances can really be what they want, because they know they will receive equal treatment. That means that their margins on CO2 are not different from what their competitors have. Then one doesn't need fear of the future in that particular area. After the Storting’s Question Time a week and a half ago, a question about the CO2 quota allocation of Kårstø, my concern was further increased by the Council of State saying that it is irrelevant for Kårstø whether they are allocated the allowances free of charge, or whether they have to buy them – in relation to their production plan. The information manager of Kårstø has rejected it in the media. It is also a problem, because if that logic is to apply to Kårstø, it might as well apply to all industry in Norway, namely that it does not mean anything if they get it for free or pay for it. But that means a lot. If Kårstø is to buy all of its allowances on the international market, it is an additional bill of 150 million. kr that competitors do not have when they receive it free of charge. That means something to the margins. It means something to who stops production only when the market is bad. In this debate, many people point to the fact that when industry closes in Norway, it is because the economy is poor – we cannot influence demand. No, that's absolutely right, and I totally agree with that. However, Norway may influence the framework conditions and hence the profitability, the margins, under which the Norwegian industry produces. If we have better margins than competitors, it's the competitors that shut down first. Even if demand goes down, it doesn't mean that everyone cuts the same thing. It's not a cheese match that works in the industry. It's one and one factory, one and one production line. And so, if we have better margins for Norwegian industry, they'll be able to keep the production open longer, while there are others that are turning producers. That's why this is so important. If you are to receive initial investment in the Norwegian industry, you must have the principal clarifications. I fully agree with the argument that I'm typing the Environment Minister will come along, that having to pay for the allowances is a bigger incentive to cut than getting them free. I fully agree with that. But that principle only works if everyone does it the same. When only Norway does so and not the competitors, it just means that the state gets income, the industry gets lower margins, and the industry moves over time out of the country. That does not make sense for the climate, and that does not make sense for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3168	I will first show that I have answered a fairly identical question from Solvik-Olsen in an interpellation earlier and a series of times answered very parallel questions in various debates. The questions are important, so it's okay that we get a rich chance to get back to it now. Solvik-Olsen began by saying that he would now seek a proper answer and a proper debate, on which he put into very many parts of his post something that when I studied to prepare in his time, was called to agitate against strawmen, namely to hold up positions that no one has, or that political opponents at least don't have, to attack them with great force and weight. So if we are to have the honest debate that Solvik-Olsen has just put forward, I would recommend that he follow up in practice. The basic thing in my answer, to take it initially, and as I have said very many times before, is that what Norway should do, must be based on a full overview of what the EU is doing. What Norway should do? On the one hand, there must be a balance between wanting as offensive a quota system as possible, which drives technological changes in Norwegian business – it will also be in the long-term interest of Norwegian business – and, on the other hand, the fact that significant parts of Norwegian business are in a very competitive position and therefore, of course, cannot be imposed on the non-competitive industry. No one has any interest in installing an allowance system that will drive industry out of Norway to other places where emissions will often be the same. The process associated with the revised ETS Directive and related legal acts is comprehensive and complex. The government therefore follows this process closely, with frequent meetings with the EU in Brussels and elsewhere. Many of the details of the legislation under the Directive remain undetermined in the EU, and it is therefore too early to say how the outcome of the amendments to the Directive will turn out both within the EU and for Norway. One of the details still to be determined is the allocation rules for free allowances. The EU has decided to harmonise the allocation rules. The EU Member States will thus lose the right to determine the share of the allowances to be sold. We need to have a clear understanding of how the Directive will turn out in Norway before we can conclude on how the Directive is to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The government is, as I said, in dialogue with the European Commission on this issue. The Government, as it is known, has worked to base the EU ETS on the fact that no allowances are allocated free of charge after 2012. However, we have also said that the allocation rules in Norway should be assessed in the light of EU policies in this area. In general, the Government is committed to maintaining the environmental and energy efficient industry in Norway and Europe in parallel with the development of the quota system. This is one of the considerations we want to address in the context of the revised ETS. The quota system may be Norway’s main climate policy instrument. The revised ETS Directive extends the scope of the ETS from 2013. Over 50 pst. in that case, greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory will be subject to allowances. This is positive, as the polluter will be faced with a cost of its emissions. As is known, the Government has opened up free allowances for the current period from 2008 to 2012. The reason for this was that we wanted to facilitate the conversion costs of ETSs. Free allowances are a clean transfer to the emission intensive industry in Norway. Free allowances increase the profitability of emission intensive activities and make it more lucrative for owners to invest in such activities. This is at the expense of the profitability of emissions-free activities and increases the costs to society elsewhere. In view of this, that the Government has considered that Norway should not add up to the continued allocation of free allowances after 2012 in the current period, Norway is free to determine the share of allowances to be sold. This freedom has also been exercised by Norway. About half of the Norwegian quotas are sold. No other country sells as much of the quota as Norway. We now see that the EU is adding up to a longer transition period than the government originally considered necessary. In the EU, many industrial industries appear to be defined as likely to be exposed to carbon leakage. These industries will be allocated a large share of free allowances. There is, of course, a significant difference, when it comes to transferring it to Norway, between the Norwegian enterprises that are not exposed to competition and those that are extremely exposed to competition. One of the reasons we have had a CO2 tax on the oil industry is that it has not been considered a particularly competitive industry. Petroleum activities are based on the extraction of natural resources and investments in industry yield higher returns than in other industries. In today's allowance system, companies on a Norwegian base pay for all their CO2 allowances without having significantly reduced the level of total investment and extraction on the cap. The full quota obligation and CO2 tax have led to technological development and triggered measures that have given rise to significant reductions in emissions in the Norwegian petroleum sector. Let me add here that when the CO2 tax was introduced early in the 1990s, it was a major struggle for the industry itself, who thought that this would put the industry at an absolutely impossible cost. Now this is seen as a thunderous success. The Right Party and the Labour Party have fought over who really had the fatherhood, and who had the fun of this gigantic success in Norwegian environmental policy. I heard Gro Harlem Brundtland claim that she was the mother. Not long afterwards, Arne Sunde was out and told me that he was the father. It shows that what was considered too difficult at one time is often considered to be much simpler and a success at a later time. However – and there will be an important basis for all assessments – there is a fundamental difference between the more and the less competitive parts of Norwegian business, Norwegian industry, when this is to be done. The government’s view has been that no free allowances are needed for the period after 2012. It is too early to say how the revised ETS Directive will be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. However, an important part of the overall assessment of the Directive is how it will affect industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3208	It's true that I've addressed this topic before. The reason why I'm taking it up again is that you don't get a clear answer. It is not a question of asking exactly where the level of the allocations should be, nor of what the price will be. The point is to get a confirmation from the Government, that they recognise that Norwegian industry that has been exposed to competition – and that is what I have been talking about, not local industry that is not exposed to competition from abroad – must be allocated allowances on the same terms and conditions as in the EU. It is true that there are processes in the EU. However, I have not noticed that there are some countries in the EU who say that they should try to have more stringent conditions than the EU is capable of, rather on the contrary. In these countries, there is a struggle among those who have an industry to ensure that EU legislation allows derogations for the export industry to the EU. Because we see that no matter how much a try to work out global climate agreements, there will be a transition period that is likely to be a bit long, where China's industry will have disproportionate competitive advantages if you have a full quota obligation and take the costs yourself in the EU, and they don't have it in China or in the United States. That's the point. I was unable in this post from the Council of State to hear that he was willing to say that in principle we should be equal. We would like to work to make it as strict as possible, but what the EU decides on is also what should apply in Norway. We should, as he said, look at this. This is where the political risk comes in, which businesses fear more than anything else, and which was confirmed when the climate quota law was first presented and which was maintained even if the climate quota law was improved the second time. But it was maintained for the new industry. "To agitate against strawmen," said the Council of State I was doing. No, I don't. The council's own party trap Inga Marte Thorkildsen spoke several times in the previous period about Norway not giving free allowances after 2012. Tore Nordtun of the Workers’ Party sent out a press release on 21 August 2008, saying that Norway should not have free allowances after 2012, and he hoped that the EU would stay at the same level. He didn't mean it, he just hoped it. This is a position that is fatal to Norwegian industry. I would also like to remind you that in a Question Time in Stortinget on 25 February 2009, Minister for the Environment Solheim would not be in favour of any exemption rules for Norwegian industry, because a high CO2 cost is required to avoid overinvesting in the Norwegian emissions industry. Yes, that is the attitude that I fear, that one does not understand that even if one never wants to reduce CO2 emissions so much, one must also take into account the competitive situation. Today’s quota system is also enough to see a non-discriminatory new industry with existing industry, or new industry in the EU. That is why I ask the Council of States once more: when we are done trying to negotiate as strictly as possible, we have to put ourselves at the level that the EU is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3229	Solvik-Olsen claims that he does not receive an answer, but that is, with all due respect, because he does not listen. What I have said now is very, very clear: we need to know what the European Union is doing. Once the EU has made its decision, we will, of course, respond to it. We will take due account of Norwegian business in that process, so that there will be no undue distortions of competition, as I believe is the main concern of Solvik-Olsen, and that no Norwegian business will come into a situation where strange measures will cause them to come into a completely impossible position. None, and at the very least the Government, are interested in us getting a flagging off of Norwegian industry as a result of a process that has the exact opposite purpose, namely to contribute to Norwegian industry becoming more competitive because it is in the forefront of adapting to a development that will come everywhere else, and which was also a valuable part of Solvik-Olsen's own interpelation, as he just pointed out how environmental technologies and measures have contributed to Norway's competitiveness in important areas. In a good number of areas, environmental technology itself is just the saleable product that Norway is interested in marketing internationally. Now let's just say that we have to take due account of Norwegian industry. It is therefore in the industry's own interest, and, fortunately, a large part of Norwegian industry sees it itself and is pressured to take on climate considerations. Let me also just say that there is something that impresses me very little, it is Solvik-Olsen's reference that Kårstø wants gifts from the state. With all due respect: I hardly know any businessman who does not say yes to a great gift from the state. So the information manager at Kårstø says yes, we want a gift from the state, doesn't impress me, at least. I think that the day the Advance Party comes into government, if that were to happen, and begins to be impressed that parts of the business would like to have a gift from the state, there will be fine little money left for most people. But again, to repeat and repeat what is the main issue: we need to have a quota system that drives rapid technological change, which makes Norway an environmental spearhead, but we're not going to do it in such a way that there are unfair distortions of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3240	I start by stressing that for the Labour Party, it is a clear objective and, of course, very important that we have a competitive industry – a competitive power-intensive industry – and a competitive business elsewhere. It's about jobs, it's about value creation, and it's about whether we or the world need the products that are being made here. And it's our clear hold that we have to create values before we can create and share. Of course, the Labour Party also supports the Government’s objective of abolishing the distribution of free allowances after 2012, but as underlined by the Council of State, this must be assessed in the light of what becomes the EU’s final policy in that area. It's hard to have any final solution to it right now. If it is that the Progress Party believes that we should not make demands on the industry, I am actually very disagreeable. I think that's a misunderstanding of politics. We don't have to go back any further than to see what happened in the United States when the U.S. car industry was running with a huge lobbying against environmental taxes and industrial charges. Under Bush administration, they were also very well-off. The result is that the car industry in the United States has lost more than anyone else to it, precisely because they are now in arrears in terms of environmentally friendly cars compared to competitors. So these requirements for the industry are not really just about reducing emissions, but it's really about being environmentally friendly in the future is going to be a strain on itself. It'll be a competitive advantage. It is also about what the Council of State also stresses: the development of technology. It's about developing the products, but the technology itself is also going to be a market. Both we politicians, and not least industry, make ourselves a bear service if one does not make clear demands for this. Of course, this is also clear to industry, and therefore they are also taking their own initiative. The Council of State notes that when the CO2 tax was introduced in the 1990s, no one was “taking the wave” for this, but now there is obviously very much satisfaction with this scheme. Then I would like to say that when it comes to the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry, there is not a single element that is involved in determining it. It's the totality of these competitive factors that have an impact, not least the community that's around the industry. It's clear that Norway is very good in some areas. In other areas, we're worse. But so far we have a totality that makes Norwegian industry quite competitive. And so it must also be in the future. Finally, we stress that we must have a competitive and powerful industry. That is why we must also ensure that we have the framework conditions that make us competitive, both in the EU and in the world, otherwise. It will be the clear policy and attitude of the Labour Party in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3260	Many Norwegian companies compete on the global market and need competitive framework conditions. Companies are concerned that energy costs and CO2 legislation for industry are significantly higher and stricter than they are in the competing countries. We have also heard this earlier today. In Norway, industry is leading the technological development of energy-efficient production processes for the production of metals and materials in many areas. Disappearing this industry are the key prerequisites for achieving breakthrough innovations away. After many years of employment in Elkem Aluminium Lista, now Alcoa Lista, I know this industry well. Elkem's own engineers started in the late 1980s on an improvement in the Søderberg furnaces for aluminium production. Over 10 to 15 years, the entire work was transformed into a modern work of emissions competing with the best available technology available today. As a result, the company reduced CO2 emissions by 350000 tonnes per year. year, corresponding to 67 pst. Production increased by 15 pst, while manning decreased by 35 pst. during the same period. Most other emissions to which the enterprise is measured are reduced by up to 90 pst. Technology is cheap, and it's exported to many works in four parts of the world. Had Elektem’s engineers not been in charge of innovation, in order to reduce emissions, this work would probably have been closed down in 2011. Similarly, Elkem produces solar silicon for solar cells, and uses half as much energy as traditional technology. Together with Alcoa Elkem now builds a large-scale installation on the List to produce aluminium with 30 pst. lower energy consumption and the possibility of net emission-free aluminium production by using CO2 off-gas for chemical or energy production. So it's clear that the industry is working hard to reduce emissions. But if the conditions are different from the rest of Europe, it is difficult. I must also mention in today's debate what former Minister of Oil and Energy Åslaug Haga says to Technical Weekly: ‘Norwegian power-intensive industry is based on renewable energy, has tough environmental requirements and the world’s best technologies. Moving production out of Norway is pointless. Although it is good for national climate accounts, it is not good for global accounts.’ I fully agree with Mr Haga. I would therefore challenge the Council of State whether he shares Åslaug Haga's statement that this industry is the world's purest and should remain in Norway. The EU sees carbon leakage as the biggest threat to its industry in countries, and they revised their Trade Directive in December 2008. It is found that the two supporting elements relevant to the Norwegian industry are that companies exposed to carbon leakage are allocated up to 100 pst. free allowances for direct CO2 emissions. Member States may implement financial measures to sectors that are exposed to carbon leakage as a result of quota costs passed through power prices. In Norway, it may receive 99 pst. by the power of water, so we would not charge the industry any charge for CO2. The levy levied goes directly to State Power and to the State. So it's important that there is a policy that promises from the Government that you follow exactly the same – not just nearly the same, but the same – requirements for quota regulation, for free quotas, so that there will be no difference in expenditure for Norwegian industry and for foreign industry. That's what the industry is waiting for. They have no hope of getting better in Norway. They are innovative, and they want to develop their businesses to minimise emissions, but there must be identical, equal conditions, otherwise that industry will disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3297	I would first of all like to thank the inter-pellant Ketil Solvik-Olsen for raising this important debate on framework conditions, which means a lot to Industry-Norway. In fact, the process industry is Norway’s second largest export industry. Overall, it is therefore greater than the export value of seafood from Norway, and it is as you know no coincidence that just this industrial cluster is large. The availability of cheap energy has given us a comparative advantage. Many towns and places up along our coast are just built with the basis of energy access and the power-generating industry. Over several years and generations, we have built a competence around power-processing industries that makes them appear today with the weight they do, both nationally and internationally. This power-intensive industry employs directly approx. 28 000 people in Norway, and we know that it is often located in the districts, preferably in areas where alternative jobs are not necessarily everyday food. Right is concerned with the creation of value. We're concerned that people are going to have jobs all over Norway, and we're busy taking out the potential of our competence and comparative forts actually provide us with. This is what creates the welfare state and the security of each of us. That is why, of course, we are also concerned about the framework conditions for our process industry. This is an industry that competes mainly in a global market, where prices are also set globally. In other words, it is an industry that is used to competing every single day, and they know that they must always be proactive in relation to being able to deliver the best products at the best possible price for customers. They also know that they need to develop further to keep their position as leading actors. Such an industry depends on the most competitive framework conditions compared to its competitors. Today, this industry appears to be among the most environmentally friendly producers due to the fact that production is largely based on hydropower, but also because in Norway we have been good at demanding environmentally friendly production, and the industry has been similarly good at setting up afterwards. This implies, for example: in the production of aluminium, this means an environmental contribution, the more aluminium Norway can actually produce. This is a product that we know the world will by all probability only demand increasing. Here our industry will be able to make a significant contribution to the environment because exports of this substance can be said in many ways to be exports of pure renewable hydroelectric energy in solid form. This means that our aluminium and metallurgy skills can help meet the global energy and climate challenges, and industry has ambitions in this area. The industry believes that it can reduce its emissions and use less energy, it can help its customers reduce their emissions and become more energy efficient. Last, but not least, there is considerable investment in the recovery of aluminium, and this only takes 5 pst. the energy input in relation to the first production of this metal. The climate challenge is global, and this in practice means that in Norway, as in other countries, we are served with the lowest possible greenhouse gas emissions. It is then easy to acknowledge from the Right that we can in no way solve the climate challenge by moving production from Norway to other countries, mostly countries with less environmentally friendly production requirements, so-called carbon leakage. If this happens with our process industry, we've lost on all fronts. First of all, the environment has lost because a shift of production is likely to take place exclusively in parts of the world with less eco-friendly production requirements. Then we lose jobs and skills. This is likely to mainly affect district Norway and some communities where the process industry enterprise is a cornerstone enterprise. Thirdly, society loses tax revenue. All three of these conditions are serious enough in themselves, and of course even more dramatic when they occur at the same time. The right-hand approach to these issues, whether in relation to quota regimes or in view of the possibility of State aid within the EU, is that we believe it would be natural for Norway and the Norwegian authorities to align themselves with the EU on these issues. The EU represents our closest competitor country and also has a number of its own industries in this area. I want to make it clear that this is about the part of the process industry that delivers global products and that competes globally. It is this industry that we need to ensure that competition neutrality is maintained in relation to the schemes that the EU chooses to use. The EU is now establishing an allowance trading system for 2013-2020 and seems to agree that trading in allowances will remain the crucial instrument of climate policy. Furthermore, they focus on avoiding carbon leakage and assigning up to 100 pst to industry that is particularly exposed to carbon leakage. free allowances for direct allowance costs. The Commission also opens up the possibility for Member States to compensate for indirect emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3327	I didn't intend to speak in this debate, but there's a question that has been mentioned by several, where I think there might be a need to make some clarifications. It is that the EU's quota systems contain two elements. One is the quota tax, and the other is what many call a CO2 tax on electricity. But that's not what we're talking about. What we're talking about in Norway is not a CO2 charge on electricity. What we are talking about is the market price that is changing in the EU because of the CO2 regime at coal power plants. This comes through the free market for which the Progress Party and others are so much in favour, enters the Norwegian power market and leads to a higher price of power. The point is that the EU ETS Directive states that each country can choose different mechanisms to compensate for an increase in the electricity price. It is one of the reasons why it is not possible today to say what the Norway regime is going to do. We can experience that the different countries in the EU are handling this in different ways. Today, it will be impossible to say that we should do as the European Union, when we know that the different countries of the European Union can do different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3345	I cannot quite see the relevance of the last post in relation to neither the Progress Party nor the Right post in this room. We talked about the allocation of allowances to direct emissions, so I fully understand the description you're coming with. The point is that in this case Norway has to say that we are at the best levels in the EU, when one sees what they allow. That's where I think the Council of State comes in with a fog speech. I'm not looking for party speeches about how important Norwegian industry is. We've heard that many times. I'm looking for a confession that we're going to give the same conditions of allocation as that one gets in the EU. The council says he will look at what is being presented and respond to it. That's not the same thing as giving a fundamental clarification. When we see how he deals with Kårstø, he has not given a level playing field. When we see that he has boasted in this speech that he has sold much more quotas than the other countries have done, it is an expression that he does not look at the need to allocate the same quantity of quotas to Norwegian industry as it does to the corresponding EU industry. But let me ask the Council of State a question: Does the Council of State think that today's climate quota law has the same competitive conditions for new industry in Norway as it is for new industry in the EU? If his answer is yes, I am deeply concerned, because then he is relatively alone in that question. If the answer is no, it is reassuring, because then he has realised that the Norwegian climate allowances law is distorting competition for Norwegian industry. I'm still a little worried about why the open-eyed people chose to introduce it. It is not only useful to say that one is for Norwegian industry, when the framework conditions in this area do not reflect that competitiveness should also make it possible to invest and provide security for investment in Norway. When the Council of State sees quota allocation as a gift from the state, from the taxpayers, it testifies to a wrong attitude that builds up under my concern. The country has not gone out and bought these allowances from anyone. The State has been allocated them free of charge through the Kyoto Protocol, in line with the emission restrictions imposed by the Kyoto Protocol. So one would like to say that these are lost revenues – that Solheim is not allowed to sell them on the EU allowance market. It's actually not something taxpayers have to finance, but it's about the state taking the income instead of letting the industry drop the cost. That's what we're talking about. That is what the EU has understood – that imposing a cost on industry by forcing it to buy more allowances than competitors need – distorts competition, and that is unfortunate. One can talk so much about encouraging us to develop technology – I have asked more questions to the Government to allocate even more allowances free of charge if the industry undertakes to take action, in line with the Norwegian industry itself has proposed. It's going to be another bowl. The point is to ensure the principle of non-discrimination. Can the Council of States then say how he deals with the current quota regime and look at the conditions of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3358	The President would point out that'murder speech' is an unparliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3362	I can be pleased with the President that I have heard a lot worse from Solvik-Olsen than just a 'wrong speech'. Let me focus on what I see as four good contributions to the debate – from Torstein Rudihagen, from Alf Egil Holmelid, from Siri A. Meling and from Henning Skumsvoll – and I will focus on the two from the opposition. I realized that all of these four posts had one thing in common, namely that we all want the Norwegian competitive industry to stay in Norway. There is no environmental benefit if Norwegian industry is uncompetitive. The same emissions often come with worse technology somewhere else on the globe. That's the basis for all the work we do. Meling nuanced this, as I perceived her, in a very wise way in my opinion – it is possible I put a little too much into it – by just emphasising the difference between the competitive part of the industry and the less competitive part. There can be little doubt that petroleum activities are not as competitive as the aluminium industry. There is also a difference between competitive industry and industry operating on a global market but which is not exposed to competition and industries competing on a domestic market without significant competition. All of this, of course, is to go up, but – once again – with the dual objective of keeping industry in Norway and, at the same time, making it the fastest possible transition in an environmentally friendly direction. This was very well illustrated by Skumsvoll and so far by Meling as well. Skumsvoll drew up two glittering examples of conversion in Norwegian industry. The aluminium industry is a good example of an industry that has changed rapidly. It is far more environmentally friendly than what it was, and, as I see it, also more environmentally friendly than in very many other countries. It is essentially an environmentally friendly product. This was well illustrated – there has been a significant degree of conversion. An even clearer example of conversion is Elkem Solar, who was mentioned here. I was myself at the opening of the company, which is based in a long Norwegian historical tradition of silicon technology in a cluster – which was an expression used – of knowledge, but with pioneers who were able to make use of this – not the old product, but a brand new product. The Norwegian aluminium industry and, even more, the Norwegian solar industry will be encouraged by the fact that we are able to achieve the strongest possible global market for eco-technological products. The larger the volume and market becomes international, the faster it develops, and the more Norway contributes to that development, the more it will promote that part of Norwegian industry and business — and it is significant — that has just taken on the transformation task that Skumsvoll has so well described.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3375	Then there's case no. 10 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3389	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2701]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3397	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3404	During the debate, 34 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-13, from Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 14-16, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposals No. 17 and 18, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 19-23, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 24 and 25, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 26 and 27, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 29–33, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 34, by Trine Skei Grande, on behalf of the Left, proposal No. 35, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1–27 is included in the vote, while proposals Nos 1–27 are included. 29–35 is distributed in the hall. The President noted that proposal No. 28, from the left has not been recorded. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3458	The proposals are then put to the vote. 26, 27, 33 from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3488	The proposals are then put to the vote. 29 and 30, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3514	The proposals are then put to the vote. 31 and 32, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3540	The proposals are then put to the vote. 24 and 25, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3564	The proposals are then put to the vote. 19–23, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3606	The proposals are then put to the vote. 17 and 18, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3630	The proposals are then put to the vote. 14–16, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3660	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-13, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3752	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 35, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3816	Case No. 4 is exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3823	During the debate, the representative Harald T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3924	The President expects the Party of Advancement and the Right to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3936	In Case No: 7, 8, 9 and 10 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-25.ana.ud624e3983	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
