ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e66	The representative of Morten Höglund, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e77	The representative, Henning Skumsvoll, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e80	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on a national plan for wind power deployment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e85	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e99	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e108	The issue we are dealing with today is two things with a common setting. It is a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party on humanitarian and health-related measures for paperless migrants and a representative proposal from the Progress Party on health services for illegal immigrants. The Committee decided to deal with both cases as they relate to the same subject but each has its own approach to the matter. The common position on proposals has therefore been submitted in the two cases. I am pleased that the members of the Committee agree that the right to emergency health care should be granted to all those who need it. Something else would be unmistakable for a welfare society like ours. The majority of the Committee has noted that it is unclear how far the right to health care for people residing illegally in the country extends. There is a difference of opinion within the Committee on how to provide the necessary health care in addition to emergency assistance and whether health care institutions should be required to notify when treating illegal residents in the country. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government has adopted the start of work on amending the priority regulation, so that adopted practice and understanding of the legislation on the right to health care for people residing illegally in the country will be clarified in the legislation. The preparation of the legislation will provide health professionals with clearer guidance on how to deal with these patients and the treatment to be given. At the same time, we will have a fairer treatment of this group and a greater predictability. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to leaving Norway as soon as possible. But it cannot prevent them from having the right to absolutely necessary health care. It is obvious that we should follow up our obligation under the Children's Convention in terms of health care for children and pregnant women. We also want to ensure that people with a public infectious disease are treated with a focus on the protection of the public by the law. It is also important that mentally unstable people at risk to society receive the necessary health care. It creates a safer society for all of us. That is a split vote for proposals in committee, but I believe that the minority will promote and defend its own proposals. Since the Government is well in the process of clarifying the provision on the right to health care for persons without legal residence in the country, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposals for representatives be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e129	At any time, there are quite a number of people in Norway without a legal stay. No one can say for sure how many people are involved, but we know that the Central Statistical Office has estimated that it can be a place between 10,000 and 32,000 illegal immigrants. In Europe, the Red Cross has estimated the number of people between 5 million and 6 million. Of these, two thirds are assumed to be former asylum seekers, while the last third is made up of persons who have never applied for asylum. Comparisons with other European countries show that such a distribution is also not unlikely for Norway. Figures from the Directorate for Foreign Affairs show that over 22 000 asylum seekers have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients in recent years, without the new address known to the authorities. Persons without legal residence in Norway have few opportunities to feed themselves. The alternatives are assistance from friends and known, black work or other criminal activities. Any asylum seeker who has received a refusal to apply for asylum has received it after a thorough procedure in the administration of foreign affairs. The legislation in force does not provide these persons with the basis of residence in Norway. In addition, there are those who have not applied for asylum or have been granted a residence permit, and who are therefore also residing illegally in the country. The background to a final refusal to apply for a residence permit is a thorough overall assessment of all aspects relevant to the application. This applies to international laws and obligations, but also to national policy issues, the current Norwegian law and political priorities of the Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy at all times. Both current and previous governments have signalled that it is desirable to take action to reduce the number of groundless asylum seekers, but also to return those who have been finally rejected more quickly. All lots are admitted to the care of the institution of asylum. Anyone who has a right to protection must receive it. However, this proposal concerns people who have received a final rejection of their application for a stay, or those who have never promoted such an application, and therefore cannot be expected to have a need for protection. The proposers consider it important to put power behind a final decision in order to ensure a general view of the functioning of the asylum institution as intended. The Progress Party believes that a sustained high number of illegal immigrants contribute to weakening the institution of asylum and the necessary confidence in the public authorities. A final refusal to apply for a stay must be followed up by good follow-up and rapid deportation procedures, if not returned on a voluntary basis. We are aware that more organisations today offer, or want to offer, humanitarian and health-related assistance to foreigners without legally staying in addition to the minimum legal requirements on the right to immediate help. When someone calls on the State to recognise a responsibility for providing such assistance, the Progress Party believes that it will be very unfortunate and that it will weaken the credibility of the Norwegian authorities, since the same authorities have already defined these persons as illegal immigrants in Norway. A ban on providing such extended assistance will ensure that the country does not contribute to legitimising measures that are appropriate to prolong the illegal residence of foreigners in the country. The applicable law on foreigners requires any foreigner to notify the police of the place of residence during the period of processing of his application for a residence permit, but also after rejection of the application until the foreigner has left the country. Unfortunately, the experience is that many foreigners without a residence permit are hiding from the authorities by not stating their place of residence to the police, as required by law, in order to avoid forced dispatch. The Progress Party believes that action should be taken to facilitate the police’s role in the enforcement of a final rejection. Section 20 of the Foreign Affairs Act states that different institutions and businesses may be required to report to the police when they have foreigners with them. Reporting obligations include, inter alia: defined to apply to those taking a foreigner in employment, when accommodation at hotel, camp, etc. The Progress Party will claim that organisations providing health-related assistance to non-residents without legal residence, without simultaneously notifying the police, contribute to the extension of their stay and therefore have to be subject to such reporting obligations. A clear reporting obligation will help facilitate police work, while ensuring that illegal immigrants are dealt with more quickly and can be transported if they do not return voluntarily. With this, I will be allowed to address the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e150	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e153	It is an important matter that is being addressed. Health care for persons without a legal residence permit, paperless migrants. The matter is important because there is a need for clarification in this area. Everyone is entitled to immediate help. Everyone is entitled to infectious disease assistance. Pregnants are entitled to help. Children up to 18 years of age, although not legally resident, are entitled to health care to a greater extent than adults under the Children’s Convention. It should be noted that the Central Statistical Office estimates that there are between 10,000 and 20,000 people without paper for lawful residence in the country. Many of these represent a vulnerable group who are subjected to violence, exploited by employers, trafficking, etc. Paperless migrants have less physical health than others. Many have serious diseases, tuberculosis, war currents and generally weakened general conditions. For this group, it would be right for both humanitarian and socio-economic reasons to extend the right, i.e. not just the immediate right to health care. Early intervention will prevent a worsening of the course of disease and more expensive hospital treatment. This group also represents a challenge in that they may be carriers of infectious diseases, which it is very important to be treated as soon as possible. I refer you to the Health Directorate, who made a report last year on migration and health where the right to health care for people without legal residence was a central issue. They came, among others. with the following recommendations: Paperless persons shall be given an explicit right to preventive and curative service in the primary health service. For vulnerable groups such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, the offer should be in line with that of the general population. The necessary information systems should be established to help this group become aware of its rights. A selection of representatives of the health authorities, migrant organisations and inclusion authorities should be set up to clarify the responsibilities, rights and obligations of the paperless. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Minister of Justice have jointly started work on clarifying the rights of the paperless migrants here in the country. I also assume that the Health Directorate's report will be included in the further work. SV, who has previously marked a dissenter in relation to the Government's tightening up of immigration policy, sees what is happening in this matter, which is very positive and in line with the traditions we believe Norwegian immigration policy should be based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e181	The two proposals we are dealing with today stand in stark contrast. The Progress Party asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that the provision of humanitarian or health-related assistance, in addition to immediate or urgent assistance to persons with illegal residence, is prohibited by law. In addition, they want organisations and undertakings ‘who hold a foreigner suspected of being illegally resident in the country’ to notify the police thereof. I'll almost call this inhuman policy. The Christian People's Party, for its part, asks the Government to make proposals for humanitarian and health-related measures and any legislative changes that may improve the situation of paperless migrants living in Norway. This is not about asylum or refugee policy in general, but about humanity and solidarity, as we see it. It's about individuals who need help, both children, women and men. It was just to be lacking that we did not set up. We should also be grateful to NPISHs and volunteers who contribute. We should thank them, not forbid them to help or order them to report to the police. It is commendable that the Red Cross and the Church Bymition have opened a health centre where paperless migrants can receive treatment, and we support this work. But at the same time, we will stress public responsibility here. These people should not depend on voluntary initiatives to get the help they need. Paperless migrants generally have poor physical health, and many of them have severe diseases and disorders, such as tuberculosis, war trauma and a generally weakened general condition. Irregular migrants are a complex group, among others. include women and children who are exposed to trafficking in human beings. These are people who are very vulnerable, many live with threats, they are subjected to violence, and most have little confidence in the authorities. Lack of health care in addition to emergency care can have serious consequences for the individual’s health. Today, adult paperless migrants are only entitled to immediate or urgent assistance, and those who are not members of the public health system have to pay for health services themselves. The current situation is difficult for these. We know that it creates a great deal of pressure on healthcare employees, and also on non-governmental organisations that meet this challenge in practice. The essence of the professional ethics of health professionals is that health care should be provided regardless of the status of the patient in society. There is a need for action and clearer legislation in this area. That is why the Christian People’s Party is promoting its proposal. This proposal does not get the majority's votes in today's magnificence. It's sad. And it's a particular shame when we know that the majority of the Storting agrees that this is a good proposal. We know that because it was sent out a press release one week before this matter was submitted to the Committee, and we could read in a large notice in the evening post that the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister of Justice now wanted extended rights to paperless immigrants who are particularly vulnerable. Of course, the Christian People's Party warmly welcomes any proposals that extend the right to necessary health care. But it's alarming when government councils go out in the paper one week before delivery without the Storting being informed. So instead of sending a letter to the committee that the government has taken a decision on a matter that the Storting has to deal with, they send out a press release. I think that is critical. I believe that it shows a lack of respect for Stortinget and Stortingen's work. Of course, I am pleased that the Government has adopted a start-up of work on amending the priority regulation so that adopted practice and understanding of the legislation on the right to health care for people who are residing illegally in the country becomes clearer in the legislation. The big paradox, however, is that the government parties are not voting for our proposal today. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e200	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e203	Today, the Storting deals with two Document 8 proposals which both deal with the provision of health to illegal immigrants. The Christian People's Party urges the Government to urgently propose humanitarian and health-related measures to improve the situation of undocumented migrants in Norway. It is shown that the Red Cross and the Church’s Bymission have opened a health centre in Oslo where paperless migrants can also receive treatment beyond immediate help. The Christian People's Party believes that the public must also provide such health care. The Progress Party, on its side, will criminalise relief organisations such as the Red Cross and the Church’s Bymission to provide health care for paperless migrants beyond immediate assistance. The Progress Party will also have legislative changes to ensure that all organisations and enterprises are obliged by law to report non-residents without legal delay to the police. Today, anyone who behaves in Norway, including people who behave illegally, has the right to immediate help from both the local health service and the specialist services. Furthermore, children up to the age of 18 and pregnant women, although not legally absent, are entitled to health services to a greater extent than adults under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is also the case that relief organisations such as The Church’s Bymition and the Red Cross in Norway can provide health assistance to illegal immigrants beyond immediate assistance without being punished for it. The proposals currently under consideration raise several debates. Is there a need to extend the right to health care for paperless migrants beyond immediate assistance, or should this be penalised on the contrary? Should health professionals be required to report patients they have for treatment for immediate help or other health care to the police if they are aware that they do not have legal residence in the country, or should it be like today? No country is lit with an unregistered population. The need for action to counter such a development is clear. However, the obligation for health workers to report own patients to the police is an action the Centre will reject. Such an obligation would be a fundamental breach of the professional ethics of health professionals, namely that one should provide health care without regard to the status of the patient in society. If this had been done, the right to immediate help would also be threatened. Because when health workers are required to report these patients to the police, who would contact healthcare professionals for immediate help? The centre party sees the need for a review of what kind of health care you should be able to provide in-depth ‘immediate help’. We want to show that the Government has agreed to start work on changing the priority regulation, so that the practice and understanding of the legislation on the right to health care for people who behave illegally in the country can be clarified in the legislation. We have also included this in the comment form in the setting of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e216	In VG 10 February 2010, under the title ‘Cynical Output’, the doctor Wasim Zahid, a doctor with Norwegian background – i.e. a Norwegian doctor – and an internal physician at Drammen Hospital, writes the following about the proposals of the Progress Party: ‘How cold can you get to be eager to throw unwanted people out of the country? There is no evidence that the necessary health care can prolong an illegal stay and the proposal completely violates the fundamental principles of the professional secrecy of healthcare professionals.’ On proposal No 2 from the Progress Party he writes: ‘The obligation of professional secrecy is governed by §21 of the Health Care Professional Act and includes both a passive obligation to remain silent and an active obligation to prevent the disclosure of information. Proper handling of patient information is a prerequisite for complying with the obligation of professional secrecy. It is a central element of privacy and its purpose is to ensure human confidence in healthcare so that they do not fail to seek health care for fear of flow of information or, in this case, to indicate to the authorities. Paragraph 23(4) of the Health Personnel Act is a general exception to the obligation of professional secrecy which allows disclosure when ‘heavy private or public interests make it lawful’. In practice, there will be emergency justice considerations such as trying to prevent the abuse of another person, stopping an intoxicated person from driving a car, or informing the police that a person in a mental imbalance is in possession of a weapon. The extension of an illegal stay in Norway does not constitute grounds for lifting the obligation of professional secrecy.’ It is interesting that the Progress Party here gives a legal lesson to a doctor about how the obligation of professional secrecy works already today, and that the Progress Party does not use more resources to see what the law is today, and what problems the proposal they have promoted would create for health professionals. The doctor continues: ‘Exceeded from legal considerations, the total lack of humanity is the most serious. One proclaims an elementary absence of empathy in what one chooses to persecute the weakest group of people in a society, when they are affected by disease. Talk about kicking someone who's lying down." I guess that's not the first time the Progress Party can be accused of kicking those who are down. He continues: ‘However, I can both exacerbate Frp and calm illegal immigrants. I have sworn to an oath that I hold sacred and above other principles. According to my abilities and understanding, I will always do my utmost to provide medical care to sick people, regardless of their status in society, and I will keep their health information secret. I have a higher call and correspond to a higher code than a simple and low law paragraph." Fortunately, the proposals of the Progress Party are not adopted, so one should not call it a low law paragraph. The doctors cannot pursue immigration policy; it still has to be a task for the police. Illegal immigrants cannot become a problem for doctors and not least create a bureaucracy for health services in order to keep them in order, it must be a problem for the police, and a challenge for politicians to solve. The left was already in 2008 of the following opinion: Firstly, the law changes so that paperless immigrants are entitled to the necessary health care even when the condition is not acutely life-threatening. Secondly, voluntary organisations such as the Church's Bymition and the Red Cross must receive grants for the operation of low-threshold health services for vulnerable groups in large cities. Such offers need to be provided with sufficient resources to ensure that health workers who contribute can also be paid for their efforts. Thirdly, anonymous health care must be an opportunity for, among other things, record-keeping systems and social security suspensions are ensured against the transparency of immigration authorities and it must be possible to obtain adequate health care without having a personal identification number. Fourthly, health professionals must be guaranteed the right to provide relevant health care to paperless immigrants without risking any legal aftermath. I would like to inform you that we will support the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e260	The right to health care for people residing illegally in the country has long been a controversial issue. Today’s legislation is somewhat unclear and thus does not provide the necessary guidelines. This gives little predictability to persons who are residing illegally, and it can lead to discrimination. It is also problematic for health professionals, who do not know what treatment they are obliged to provide to this group. On this basis, the Government has decided to initiate work to clarify the legislation. The Ministry will draw up a consultation note detailing proposals for clarification and clarification. All residents of Norway shall be entitled to immediate assistance, including persons without a legal residence permit. In addition to this, I believe that everyone should also have the right to ‘health care that cannot wait’. Closer definition of this concept must be further explored, and I do not want to draw any final lines yet, except to say that the concept must reflect that a medical assessment must be based on. I have, however, noted the comment made by the representative of Davøy in the position, where she points out that the Norwegian Medical Student Association sees the need for patients with diabetes and asthma to receive health care before there is a need for emergency treatment. This may, in my view, be examples of conditions in which health care cannot wait in some situations, and I would like to include it in the further assessment. I believe it is important that all children are entitled to the necessary health care, and that pregnant women are entitled to health care before and after birth, regardless of their residence status. I would therefore like to put to the consultation a proposal that more closely equates these groups with other groups. We're going to have a well-functioning infectious agent in Norway. It is important that persons residing illegally in the country also have the right to infectious diseases. Furthermore, I believe that social reasons indicate that mentally unstable persons who may present a hazard should be provided with mental health care. I also believe that women should be given the right to abortion. This is important for particularly vulnerable groups, for example: prostitutes and victims of trafficking in human beings. I fear that women will apply for other opportunities to interrupt their pregnancy without legal residence if they are not given legal abortion in Norway. In addition, there is no need to extend the right to health care for persons residing illegally in Norway. More health care for people without a legal residence in the country could help undermine immigration policy decisions. However, it is important to look at the human aspects of the matter. I therefore believe that the offer made by the Church's City Mission and the Red Cross should be continued. Health professionals are bound by a duty of professional secrecy which requires them to actively prevent others from becoming aware of information they are told about in their capacity as health professionals. Reporting obligations to the health professionals police will break this principle. I fear that such a reporting obligation could lead to people refusing to seek health care. In particular, I think that such a reporting obligation could be for children. I am therefore pleased that the proposal of the representative for a ban on the provision of health care to people who are staying illegally in the country and on reporting obligations to the police is annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e290	In this case, the Party of Advances proposes that health professionals should be required to report to the police if they come into possession of a foreigner who is presumed to be illegally resident in the State. The Council of State then points to the obligation of professional secrecy as a restriction on health professionals not being able to report. So my question is, what is the reason that health professionals report to the police when a child is suspected of being sexually abused, but not when a girl illegally resides in the country because she is sexually exploited by trafficking? What are the legal paragraphs that the Council of State believes defends such a different treatment of what I experience as analogue cases? So in the first case, you have an obligation to disclose – why not in the second case?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e297	In the first case to which it refers, there has obviously been a criminal act. Doctors and healthcare professionals have a duty of professional secrecy in general, and I believe that this obligation of professional secrecy should also apply in cases where they provide the necessary health care to people who are staying illegally in Norway. As I explained in my article, we want to clarify the guidelines for this type of health care. We believe that this is absolutely necessary, but that it should not be such that people who are staying illegally, for fear of being notified to the police, should not be able to visit the health service. We can then fully agree that people who are illegal in Norway – and who have been refused their application – should leave the country. But it's a completely different matter. Health professionals should not be the ones who report this to the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e304	When the Right supports the decision that the proposals are annexed to the Protocol, it is because we agree with what the Council of State writes in the letter. Clearing and reviewing current legislation may make sense to ensure that legislation is clear, but in such a way that it actually clarifies current health professionals’ practices, which handle current legislation in a sensible way and use their heads in the meeting with individuals and assesses the situation in a concrete way. In addition to current practice, there may be a few impressions from the Council of State that one also wants to expand this. Such a development will not be in a position to support the Right. But my question to the Council of State is: is there an assessment of the need to clarify the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act relating to ensuring the necessary health care for people residing illegally in Norway, so that it will not strengthen the person's relationship with Norway in the next round and thus have an impact on the residence permit?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e311	What I tried to explain was that the government is going in to get the legislation ready so that we can provide urgent assistance to all people who are in Norway – a type of health care that cannot wait, even to people who are illegal in the country. Then it is enough that there have been some ambiguities in this legislation for health professionals in terms of what they can deliver. There are some clarifications that are being made here, for example: in the case of children. They are roughly assimilated to Norwegian children with regard to this benefit. This applies to pregnant women, who also need health care for both mother and child. Otherwise, this is an attempt at clarification and at creating a better regulation – with more predictability for both health professionals and those seeking this kind of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e316	I have a question as to why not the government parties in the UK can get the government to vote for our proposal to improve the situation of paperless migrants, when the government itself has started work, and even goes very far in saying that they want – in fact, perhaps even stronger than we have said – to extend the rights, where reference is made to children and pregnant women in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e321	This work has been undertaken by the Government to clarify unclear legislation and to establish guidelines that will be more predictable for those who are to provide assistance, as well as for those who are to receive assistance. Then, of course, we've also looked at international conventions in the case of children, in the case of pregnant women. But otherwise this is about immediate help, and it's about health care that can't wait. And then it's about a case to be clarified and sent out to the hearing; a work that the government has seen as necessary to do, just to be predictable with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e330	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e335	I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party's representative proposal is not about asylum or refugee policy, but about responsibility and solidarity with our fellow human beings. It is about individuals in a very difficult situation — children, women and men who need help for their own health. Then it was just to be lacking that we did not set up – that should be done by the public. Actually, we should thank the ideal organisations and volunteers who set up, as they do. We should thank them, and not oblige them to report to the police. Of course, the Christian People's Party is voting against the two proposals of the Progress Party. One of the problems of the Progress Party is that they make this a matter of asylum and refugee policy. They believe Norway is becoming too attractive if we provide health care to the paperless. However, the fact that we have measures for this group does not make Norway a liberal country in relation to countries in Europe. Until the Church's Bymission started this, we were one of the very few Western European countries that did not have special measures for this group. No country is serving an unregistered population, and measures are needed to counteract this development. Even so, we have to recognize that this group exists. This group will not be reduced by making life as difficult for them as possible, or by criminalising co-humanity and neighbourliness as voluntary organisations show when they provide help to paperless immigrants. Helping one of the most vulnerable groups in society is to show fellow humanity and empathy. It is about fundamental human rights, and the Christian People’s Party will today ask the Government to ‘promote proposals for humanitarian and health-related measures’, and we ask the Government to promote ‘possible legislative changes that may improve the situation of paperless migrants living in Norway’. The majority will not vote in favour of our proposal. I understand that not the Progress Party will, but that the government parties, as far as I can see, can not agree with us, can vote in favour of this, I find it difficult to understand. It's almost going to be a parody. When we promoted this proposal, we received a response from the Minister of Health that she would assess the need for action. It was not surprising that the members of the governing parties in the committee also turned the thumb down, even though they expressed themselves in the debate as if they were in agreement with the proposals of the Christian People's Party. But just a week before the committee was due to give up its position, we could read in the evening post that the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice are addressing almost the same thing as the Christian People's Party is promoting in its proposal. That they don't mention the Christian People's Party, I understand, because you prefer to own things yourself, but I expected the government parties in the committee to change their comments. And the parody is that today they're voting against something they're really in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e350	The topic of today's debate is addressed in two different ways. I see that the proposal by the Christian People's Party uses the term 'paperless migrants'. The Progress Party uses the term ‘illegal migrants’. I think that illustrates a little bit of the problem. Firstly, if there is a very large number of illegal immigrants in Norway today, there are a lot of papers, because there are people who have largely been treated for an asylum application, who have been rejected and who may have been accused on several occasions. They are by no means paperless. But it shows that you're trying to talk about this problem with – what to say – nicer words than the fact. Persons who are illegally present in the Kingdom and who have nothing to do here, to be returned, are a strong growing group. Thus, although estimates are very uncertain — between 10,000 and 32 000 — there are several tens of thousands in Oslo alone. This problem is growing, and then it's not very smart to impose strong rights for these types of groups. For there is something today’s government should have brought with it during the years it has been sitting and directing this country, it is that relatively small, marginal changes in Norwegian policy can have major consequences for the arrival of specific asylum seekers. We've seen that over and over again. Small legislative changes that have been made here in this Chamber have led us through 2008 and 2009 to blow up all the records of asylum seekers from outside Europe. There is some lack of learning ability, so this has not been done carefully with regard to the borderline moves to be made when it comes to rights for illegal immigrants. Then it's not like someone's trying to present it, that it's problematic that we have to inform the police about illegal immigrants. So you have an information obligation in a number of other contexts, and the introduction of this here is not going to be anything fundamentally different either. The size is free to adopt what you want, no matter what the representative Raja of the Left Party may think of it. And no doctor can stand above Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e361	I think it is quite special to hear the representative, Mr Davøy, and the representative, Mr Bekkewold, claim that the majority is not allowed to vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. It's pretty straightforward, I think. For us it becomes strange and completely unnatural to ask the government to start a work that it is already doing. We don't need that. We have confidence that the Government will do what it itself has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e367	The President is uncertain whether the term ‘fair’ is appropriate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e370	I'm an alternate, so I still have the opportunity to be surprised at how to abuse this pulpit. When the representative Per-Willy Amundsen speaks, one would think that the rest of the hall here disagreed with him – that someone else believes that illegal immigrants should be allowed to stay in Norway. It would be thought that we others believe that no, illegal immigrants do not burden the system, and that maybe we others think that no, they do not exploit the system. Perhaps the representative believes that we other politicians or the other political parties want to welcome the illegal immigrants and that we are of the opinion that the illegal asylum seekers do not destroy the legitimate asylum seekers. But it's not like that. This representative shouts and shouts, and I am surprised that he allows himself to use this hall to kick in open doors and speak against better knowledge. I'm surprised. Of course, all the political parties agree that illegal immigrants are going out of Norway, that they are charging and exploiting the system, and that illegal immigrants are destroying the legitimate asylum seekers, whom the majority of Norway fortunately wants to help. But this debate is not about kicking in these open doors. It is about whether to provide the necessary health care to those who need it or whether to impose a health care professional’s obligation to report that is contrary to their obligation of professional secrecy and the oath they have taken. To the fact that the doctors, who have been trained in medicine, should now not help the people who need help, it is to say, I am very pleased that these doctors write in the newspaper time and time again that they swear to a much larger oath that is far more sacred to them, and that is saving human lives. I am very pleased that the proposal mentioned by that doctor in my previous post as a low proposal is not going to get the majority of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e381	I need to make something more related to the statements by the representative Olsen. She responded to the Christian People's Party statements here. I stand for what I have said. The background for this is that the formal writing we got in the committee from the government and the government, is not what it said in the evening post. I am also not aware that the work has started. It may be, but in response to the committee – during our discussion – the Council of State writes in the last sentence: ‘I am aware that current legislation in this area is partly unclear and will therefore assess whether there is a basis for clarifying it.’ This is the formal response of the Health and Welfare Committee of the Stortinge during its treatment from the Council of State. We got that long before we gave the setting. Having said that, of course, I am pleased that the government has started the work. That's great. In our proposal, we want to improve the situation of paperless migrants living in Norway. That is the end of our proposal. What we've read about in the Evening Post is that both state councils now want to clarify the provision. So they have made a decision in time between the letter we received and before we gave the cancellation, that they will clarify the provision on the right to health care. And a little further down it says that children and pregnant women will have extended rights after the proposal. This will, of course, greatly improve the situation, as we propose. That's why I don't understand that you can't vote for our proposal – when that's actually what you've been doing. I wish we could agree on this. We were even willing to change the proposal so that it could become more in line with what the Government is going to do. But here you want to vote for a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e397	As I tried to point out in my speech, things can be done in one policy area, have consequences in other policy areas. Thus, it is not that immigration policy is isolated, Norwegian integration policy isolated, which has consequences for the arrival of, for example. asylum seekers and the extent to which people become illegal immigrants. There is a set of policies, in a variety of areas, that influence this. That's exactly what's the problem, that you don't take it into this room. That's where you have to have a good balance. So this is where everyone agrees that illegal immigrants are not good. It may be, but it does not help to be opposed when you are not willing to implement the policy that is necessary in order to bring the problem to life. Today, we have major challenges – I stress major challenges – with a growing number of illegal immigrants who are in the realm at all times, and I note that there is no need to take on board the need to take other policy measures beyond immigration policy in order to address the issue. Then it must be that the Left Party with the representative of Raja is also against illegal immigrants, but the truth is that if the Left's policy had been applied, this problem would have been totally unmanageable because it had blown up all borders with regard to immigration into the Kingdom. In practice, Norway would have acted as a haven for how many would want to seek asylum — and with the Left’s policy, almost everyone would have received it as well. Other politicians are concerned with the context of Norwegian policy. We are concerned that we have a responsible policy in this area, in the area of health as in the field of immigration, which means that Norway does not have further problems with illegal immigrants. This is one of several proposals the Progress Party is promoting in various areas to address that issue. I record that the other parties do not have solutions to meet just these challenges that I point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e408	I'm a little surprised by the representative Davøy's obvious irritation about the government's way of doing things. When we wrote in a letter dated 20 December that we are aware that the legislation is unclear, no one should be surprised that the government is actually working on the issue. That is a clear recognition that there has been an unclear code. This is not a good situation, either for those seeking health care or for those seeking health care. The government wanted to do something about it. That is why we have taken up this work, had it going on for a while, in parallel with the proposal under consideration today. So it is that the Minister of Justice and I went out in the evening post, is completely in line with what I have explained here today. So there's no difference. I find reason to stress that there are no surprises here. This is actually what the matter is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e415	The representative, Raja, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e418	The Progress Party is now trying to turn its proposals into a sort of immigration issue. Is it parliamentary to be able to call it the slightest hesitation, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e423	It is an unparliamentary expression and shall not be used in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e426	Then I will not use that concept of the Progress Party proposal. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is concerned about this with the proposals and the context of the policy. I don't think the Progress Party itself has seen the context. First of all, they want to impose an incredible amount of bureaucracy on doctors and health professionals. And if there's something health professionals already have too much of from before, it's just bureaucracy. We get at least out of each of the heads we put into the health care system, already today. In addition, the Progress Party has not seen the consequence that many will not seek medical attention — the importance it will have in terms of infection. For example, how will it be? Illness is changing in Norway? In addition, there is no need to change the rules of professional secrecy, and not least our relationship with international conventions. The progress is the worst to see for yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e435	The President just wants to remind you that you shouldn't use unparliamentary expressions in this room. The President has a certain suspicion that it is possible to obtain information on which expressions you should not use in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e438	This is a matter where it is tempting to move at the border of what is parliamentary, when you hear what accusations are going on. The representative Amundsen said it was important to see links in Norwegian policy. I very much agree with that. But I think we may be able to demand of Mr. Amundsen that he sees the context of his own policy. It could be a good start. It is said that with the policy of the Left, this problem would become bigger, because then so many people had stayed. It's not entirely related. If everyone had stayed, they wouldn't be illegal immigrants. Then maybe this problem had been gone. It's not true that everyone would have stayed with the Left's policy. But the fact that you had received more human treatment is quite clear. The second thing I think is fascinating about the argument of the Advancement Party is that you have to use medical help to enforce other policies. It would have been tempting to ask if you could imagine refusing health care in connection with other types of criminal acts in order to avoid people going to them. It can be thought that there are other criminal acts in a society for which it could be an appropriate punishment, to prevent people from committing criminal acts. Is it the case that health care should be prevented for other groups who commit criminal acts if we define it to be illegal as a criminal act? So it would be exciting to see how to try to enforce it consistently. For what the Progress Party will do here is that they will introduce health care as part of our criminal regime in Norway – when punishing for criminal offences, refusing health care is part of those measures. That's okay, but it's a punishment you're kind of just going to use for foreign citizens. That's one point. The second point is this: I live in that part of town where there are probably most illegal immigrants. Let's say we don't care about them. Let's say that their human value is equal to zero. Let's say that one of them is behind me on the trick -- there's probably someone doing one morning. I would very much like that person to have the acute psychiatric help he needs when he's behind me on the trick. If he has a contagious disease, for example: tuberculosis, I would like him to have health care for it. Even in a world with the view of the Progress Party, where it has no value, it is about the value of the other citizens, the security of the other people – our security of the trick. It's about the fact that a person who lives in this country should actually have a minimum of health care. It shouldn't be part of our criminal regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e452	The representative, Mr Bavøy, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e455	It is true, as the Council of State says, that in December we received the letter that the Government will consider looking at the legislation, after we in the Christian People's Party had promoted this proposal in November in Stortinget. Of course, it is positive that both the Committee and the Government have worked on this. I'll have to say that again. I think it's good. But I think it's a little strange that when the committee has a case to deal with, the Storting is not formally informed that the Government has made a decision. We'll read about it in the Evening Post. We had not given the setting – we had a week left before we had to do it – when we could read this in the evening post. Neither is it that everything in the papers is always quite right. I would expect the Stortinget to be briefed before we gave the adjustment. Yes, I have to say that I might get a little tired and frustrated that the government is taking the case without even mentioning those who have promoted it in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e464	I get a little bored when we get accusations against us that we're running an inhuman policy, and that the Progress Party has the view that man doesn't have value. It's as far from the truth as it can be. We want to protect the institution of asylum, and we do not want it to be undermined. We also want a clear regulatory framework in this area, on what we are going to give of health care. We all agree that immediate help should be provided, there is no doubt about it, but here it is a limit to the additional health care and medical treatment to be provided by society, and the duties to be imposed here. I note that we probably didn't have any illegal immigrants with the Left's policies, but I think that's a little interesting in this context. I think it's more interesting when it's said that the doctors swear a higher oath that's almost lifted above Norwegian law, if we're to understand Abid Q. Raja right. So it's said that there's going to be a lot of bureaucracy, and that there's a breach of confidentiality. In fact, health professionals also have an obligation to provide information. They have a duty of loyalty to their employers, and they have an obligation to provide information to the authorities they have to comply with. I used this as an example with sexually abused children in my question to the Council of State. Then the council says it's okay to report it, because it's illegal. It was set up against trafficking, which I got the impression is not illegal in this context, and it scares me a little. Today, we are struggling with a number of people who use the institution of asylum a little dubious – perhaps it is economic motives, with a desire for a better life, which is behind, and perhaps it is not exactly that you are persecuted, etc. Do we now risk getting a number of health refugees if we open up in this area? I noticed that the Council of State said prostitutes would be able to have abortions. Can we then get a stream of people to Norway who want abortion, by just claiming that you are a prostitute? I see that it's a sought-after production, but that's actually what can be the consequence if you're not tidy and drawing up a good code. That's what the Progress Party is looking for. We want, as I said, to provide immediate help, but we want those people who live illegally in this country to get home as soon as possible, and that they should not exploit our system, which is actually built up to take care of the people who have the right to be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e475	I think the representative Gåsvatn is a fundamentally nice man, so I think I'll just bring some people's information in relation to doctors' duties. The duty of doctors to warn about criminal acts is largely linked to ensuring that criminal acts do not happen again. So, the reason why doctors are going to warn about child abuse is that the abuse should stop. The reason why they can also report abuse in other contexts is that it should stop the abuse. Their warning shall ensure that criminal acts are not repeated. There is a big difference between a warning from a doctor and a warning that we are almost setting doctors to enforce Norwegian legislation in other areas. That's a very important part. This is a major challenge for the Norwegian medical profession. We see today that Norwegian doctors have such a focus on treatment that they are sometimes not fit to take evidence, for example. in cases of rape. They're so busy treating the patient that they're not good at taking evidence. I think it's a good thing at the Norwegian playroom. I think we should teach someone to do that job well, but I think the Norwegian doctor has a good focus, and I'm proud that we have a doctor who actually has treatment and prevention in focus. If we think we're going to use our doctors to enforce Norwegian legislation, there's no limit to what Norwegian doctors will meet with challenges in this area. I think we should have a clear distinction. Their task is to save lives and make the health of patients better. It is not their job to call the police except to ensure that criminal acts do not happen again. And being in a country I don't think it's important enough to use the Norwegian medical profession – that's the job of the police and the Norwegian foreign agencies. It's not Norwegian doctors' job to do this. I believe that this is as much about the health safety of us as Norwegian citizens, making sure that we do not associate with people who are psychotic, schizophrenic, or who can pose a threat to us in other health ways. What I think is a task for the Norwegian doctor to work with, not to enforce Norwegian foreign legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e500	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated up to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a change in line — within the allocated speaking time — of up to three lines with replies after the State Council’s intervention. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e509	Today, we are discussing Document 8:29 S for 2009-2010, to reduce the use of coercion in the mental health system, promoted by the Christian People's Party. Proposals address issues such as coercive medication, monitoring the consequences of coercive measures, national guidelines, a new mental health escalation plan and its funding. Furthermore, national minimum standards for school health, lowthreshold funding and outpatient teams are proposed. The proposers point out that it is at any time approx. 1 000 patients admitted to coercive treatment, and that approximately 1000 persons outside institutions are compulsorily medicated in the year. These are figures that the Committee agrees to be too high. The Committee is united behind a comment that this concerns, as it is contrary to fundamental human rights in terms of self-determination and personal freedom. The Committee points out that the use of coercive measures is perceived as offensive to individuals and can help to weaken the confidence of treatment providers. Furthermore, an overall committee is behind the requirement that the use of coercion be kept to a minimum. The Committee meets a debate on the issue. The Committee is also gathered on the importance of health stations and school health services in terms of prevention in relation to children and youth health, both in terms of mental and physical health. The Committee has been informed that the Directorate for Health has now been given the task of examining alternative measures to strengthen the capacity of the school health service and that the Directorate is to assess a national minimum standard for staffing. The Committee shall meet this examination. Apart from these joint statements, there is a distinction between the government parties, who do not want to support any of the proposals, and the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, who are behind different proposals, and I leave it up to the individual party itself to explain its position. I am pleased with this opportunity to discuss the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health. In the perfect world, coercion would not happen at all. Unfortunately, we don't live in a perfect world, and the Progress Party also realizes that there are a few people who are so sick that they can be a danger to themselves or others. But at the same time, the Progress Party is quite clear that there is too much coercion and that the use of coercion is unfortunately also linked to the lack of proper and adequate treatment and assistance at an early stage. The Progress Party continues to believe that the abolition of coercion must be an objective. I am pleased that there is an overall committee behind the comments that the use of coercion is too great, and I am pleased that a joint committee wants a change. Then, of course, it is disappointing when the same committee is unable to gather on any proposals that could lead to an improvement. One who calls herself Mia has a blog she calls "Pairy in Psychiatry", where she writes about her mother. On her blog I found, among other things. the following: ‘I wish I could get through this, with this ‘bleeding wound’ that will never grow. It's when I think about what they did to mother, those who called themselves therapists and specialists. [[...]] What happened to Mother during this treatment was that she was completely broken down both mentally and physically. [[...]] Why did they call it a hospital? Why did they take away our mother? [[...]] Personally, I think it is difficult to be contacted by individuals who believe that they are being forced to do so, which TV 2 has recently put on the search light. I feel helpless and unable to give good answers or advice. It is therefore a puzzle when the Government's response to these serious issues is to wait, assess, come back to or reduce a sample. The Progress Party is therefore promoting a proposal today, in which we ask the Government to present a comprehensive communication on the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection, which will help reduce coercive treatment and coercive medication. Furthermore, we are promoting proposals for monitoring the consequences of coercion. In her letter of 1 February 2010, she admitted that ‘cuts and changes in some municipal services to people with mental health problems are reported’. This is in line with the warnings given by the Progress Party when the earmarked funds were lost. It is serious, because not all the targets in the escalation plan were achieved, and we therefore do not tolerate cutbacks in what was actually achieved. The Progress Party is therefore promoting proposals today for the reintroduction of earmarked funds, so that the objectives can be achieved, rather than cut. Furthermore, we promote proposals to ensure the financial financing of low-threshold social services. I also refer to the alternative budget of the Progress Party, where the Progress Party increased the appropriations by nearly 200 million. kr. The Council of State also points out in its letter that persons with mental illness who are not satisfied with the offer given have different complaint procedures that they can use. I want to stress that some people are so sick that they have problems with seeking help, and that the same people will have major problems with or will be cut off from making a complaint. Psychiatric illness has a bad and difficult everyday life, where their closest one suffers as well. As politicians, we bear enormous responsibility for the existence of good and right offers that include and heal when the need arises. I would ask that the Council of State in these budgets do not forget all those who are struggling. In this matter, the party promotes seven proposals together with the Christian People's Party and one proposal together with the Christian People's Party and the Right. I take up the proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e548	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e551	The matter raised by the proposers here is a serious matter. It's a difficult topic, which deserves most of all that we have a focus on it. This is a matter that has no simple solutions. Of course, the use of coercion shall be limited to what is strictly necessary. No one shall have to be subjected to coercion without all prior testing. Being subjected to coercion can be perceived as offensive, and many labor with it in retrospect. There is evidence that those patients who have been involved in the past are better off in retrospect. The fact that we in Norway are high on the statistics on the use of coercion is worrying, and it needs to be taken seriously. In addition, when we see that there are many variations in individual enterprises, it must be possible to limit the use of coercion. That is why it is good to set up a legislative committee. There is a high level of responsibility on the legislative committee, which is to assess ethical, professional and legal aspects of current legislation and practices in the field of mental health protection, including issues of adjustment/removal of the treatment criterion and the conditions under which treatment is administered. It is important that we have clearer legislation in this area that guarantees patients' rights. Force is not a treatment method itself and should only be used to prevent the patient from harming himself or others. It is positive that a new national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercion in psychiatric services is being developed. Its anchoring in the Health Directorate and in regional health businesses, and their commitment to local businesses, will contribute to a broad review and focus on reducing the use of coercion. Finally, I would like to say that I am grateful to all those who burn for this matter, and who keep me and other representatives well up-to-date both by e-mail and other contacts. We still have to have a big focus on the use of coercion and what we can do to reduce it. That means a lot to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e564	The right shares the concerns of the proposers regarding the use of coercion in psychiatry. Forcibly-treated means a serious violation of the integrity of an individual, and the use of coercion must be avoided as far as possible. The use of coercion requires a balance between the protection of privacy and the care of society towards people who are unable to care for their own interests. The protection of the integrity of individuals implies that health care can only be provided exceptionally and under very strict conditions without the patient’s consent. Even then, it must be part of the treatment based on care, proximity and safety. The use of coercion may have consequences for the good relationship and trust that has been developed between patients and treatment providers. It can create anxiety and uncertainty in a situation where exactly the opposite is crucial. SINTEF Health has analysed coerciveness in mental health protection, and the study shows that there are wide variations in the use of coercive measures between health businesses. It shows that the legal certainty of patients has not been adequately ensured. The government must now intensify its efforts to ensure that healthcare complies with the guidelines adopted and that any differences in the use of coercive measures between different treatment institutions are reduced. We know that patients with poor living conditions are more often exposed to forced use than others, as the Health Authority has also pointed out. It is therefore essential to ensure better health and care services, in particular for serious mentally ill people. Force handling must not be used as an instrument because it lacks competence, because it lacks professionals, or because it lacks financial resources. The right supports the proposal to ask the Government to provide a large-scale notification of the use of coercion in order to help strengthen the supply of users and reduce the scope of coercive use. It is also necessary to monitor the consequences of the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. Right eartaged in its budget for the current year 300 million. kr for interaction measures and outpatient services, inter alia. within psychiatry. In addition, we proposed to strengthen the work of health centres for vulnerable families of 25 million. kr. It was disappointing that the government parties could not support these proposals. To the right, it is essential that we continue to strengthen prevention and build up better provision so that patients can be helped before they develop acute illness and are subjected to coercion. The roadmap for mental health has led to better provision in several areas, but a number of objectives have not been met, showing a report from the State Health Authority. There are several examples of the reduction of mental health services only within three months of the termination of the escalation plan. Mental Health Youth is now acting through a postcard action to warn against cutbacks in the provision of services to children and young people. I want to give honor and support to the young people who are engaged. After completion of the escalation plan, they are witnesses that the offer to young people with mental health problems is escalating around the country. They are still receiving signals that it is being cut in psychological and health care positions in several municipalities. They are concerned that it is proposed to be cut, and that there are proposals for the closure of offers for children and young people, among other things. in the Youth Psychiatric Department of the Hospital Telemark and the Hagen Treatment Centre in Hedmark. Mental Health Youth is supported by President Hofgaard of the Norwegian Psychological Association, who says that there is also a significant cut in the supply of mentally ill people both in municipalities and in health companies. This is about the future of children and young people, and we know that 15-20 pst. in Norway, children and young people have impaired their ability to function as a result of mental illness. Therefore, the health service must be built up and not cut. These conditions must now be addressed by the Council of State. We do not accept that mentally ill people, both young and adults, become a balancing item in the budgets of municipalities and health enterprises. It is necessary to strengthen prevention and to develop more lowthreshold and outpatient services. Better accessibility for mental health protection needs to be ensured and the competence for the treatment of mental illness needs to be strengthened both in municipalities and in health enterprises. It is these offers that could provide a better offer and at the same time reduce the use of coercion. Finally, we in the Right will state that we will support the good proposals of the Left, asking the Government to develop educational material for healthcare professionals in the care of demented, mentally retarded and mentally ill people for the proper use of coercion, and that the material focuses on principles of the use of coercion, ethics and legal legislation. We think that is absolutely necessary, we need a safe treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e594	In this case, the Committee shares the concerns of the proposers regarding the use of coercion in the mental health system. It is agreed that coercion must be limited to a minimum necessary. Forces are contrary to fundamental human rights and self-determination of personal freedom. Of those who are under compulsion, it is perceived as very offensive. We in SV are therefore pleased that the majority believe that treatment should be as voluntary as possible and that coercion should only be used in very special situations. Norway has more than 1000 forced admissions to psychiatry in a year. A SINTEF report of June 2007 demonstrates that coercion is increasing towards patient groups such as mental retardation, mental illness and dementia. Norway has a high proportion of compulsive patients, compared with other countries. Differences in the use of coercion among treatment institutions show that the potential for reducing coercive use is high. A new national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection shall be established in the current year. In addition, a legislative committee shall be set up to assess the ethical, professional and legal aspects of current laws relating to mental health protection. This confirms that important and proper work is being done in the Government to reduce coercion in mental health protection. I look forward to the fact that Stortinget will have the opportunity to come back to this matter when we see whether the measures to be implemented are effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e605	The central party shares the concerns of proposers when it concerns the use of coercion in mental health protection in Norway. The final report for the Mental Health Progression Plan states that in Norway we have had a large and successful quantitative development of mental health in the last ten years. However, the report also states that the quality of service provision is not always as certain as it is, and that the use of coercion in mental health protection is not well documented. Therefore, ensuring the quality of the treatment currently taking place in the field of mental health needs to be a priority. This includes reducing the use of force to a minimum. Many suggest that Norway often resorts to coercion in mental health protection, compared to other countries. Today, there are wide variations in the use of coercive measures between health businesses. Health authorities have also pointed out that patients with poor living conditions are more likely to be subjected to forced use than others. Proposals require a holistic approach and include a wide range of measures to reduce the use of coercion. The Central Party will demonstrate that the Government has announced a new national strategy for reducing and using coerciveness in mental health services. He has to be established in 2010. We will also show that the Government has announced that a legislative selection will be set up to assess ethical, professional and legal aspects of today’s legislation and practices in the field of mental health protection. The selection of the law must also assess the treatment criteria and the conditions under which they are to be treated. The Central Party therefore believes that the intention of the proposers to demand a roll-out message and a mapping of this theme has been abandoned. In its setting up, a joint committee indicates that the health centre and school services are the most important prevention and health promoter of the health care sector in the municipalities with regard to children and young people. The centre party will be given the impression that what needs to be given priority is school health, especially at the youth school level and in secondary school. The centre party will also stress that the determinations should be mentioned in this context. In many places today, there is a total lack of cooperation between the residents and the school nurses. Lack of cooperation has been shown to compromise the quality of health promotion work. The Central Party believes that defining its tasks, cooperation and responsibilities against school hospitals and prevention among children and young people must be made more concrete in the further work of the Cooperation Reform. The centre party is initially skeptical of a standard for staffing for the school and health centres, as this in practice always turns out to be a minimum standard. In our view, it is important to set quality requirements for services and ensure that students are offered in this way. The proposers demand that funds for psychiatry be earmarked. In general, the central party believes that it is important that the local government sector should be financed as much as possible. Earmarks shall be limited to major bet areas in a step-up phase. Our starting point is that the populace in the municipalities will secure a development of the supply of people with mental disorders. This also applies to ensuring the development of low-threshold social measures, for which the proposers will have their own financial instruments. We support what the Minister of Health and Health refers to in this respect, namely that the provision of psychiatry in the municipalities will be closely followed up by specific annual reports. What is not mentioned in the draft representative nor in the debate is the role of the medical officer in reducing the use of coercion. Many of the infections in the psychiatry occur today via a medical professional. It is the doctor who stands up in the concrete and often difficult situations in which the use of coercion is assessed. It is therefore important to work in order to strengthen medical care and to increase the competence of a medical practitioner in the field of psychiatry. The switch to mental health protection must continue. We still have a very high level of mental health protection, where too many people are being treated at an too high level. The main challenge in the future will therefore be to strengthen both the capacity and quality of psychiatry provision in municipalities and at the district psychiatric centres in order to improve prevention and thus also prevent the future unnecessary use of coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e626	The freedom we all take for granted every day is not all wrong, nor in Norway. It is very serious, since it violates fundamental human rights such as self-determination and personal freedom. In particular, this applies to people who are being treated with coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. Many get hurt, perhaps for the rest of their lives, as a result of this. It also does something about their relationship with the mental health system. They may not be afraid to seek help again in fear of experiencing new injuries. I would like to make it clear that someone feels that forced treatment was right for them, but it may be difficult to know in advance how this is being done. Therefore, a clear objective must be to reduce the use of coercion in mental health protection in Norway. This is the cross-political agreement on which we have also heard here from the pulpit today. The risk of being subjected to coercive treatment when you become mentally ill varies depending on where you live in Norway. It also varies from department to department. No later than January this year, a report on the use of coercive measures in emergency youth psychiatric wards from the Regional Centre for the Mental Health of Children and Young People was submitted. The report, which is thus quite fresh, shows that there is a wide variation between departments, both in the proportion of coercive and in the extent and type of coercive use. This is a clear signal that it is possible to reduce the extent when variations are so large. Some have done much better than others. We don't have information that definitely tells us how much coercion is being used, and what kind of coercive patients are being subjected to. This is very serious. The above report also shows that the recording procedures vary between departments and that there is no reliable and readily available information on the use of coercion. The Christian People's Party is impatient, we can't wait year after year for work groups, selections and investigations. In fact, over three years passed from the 2006 Health and Welfare Committee on my initiative asked for a thorough evaluation of the treatment criterion, until a working group in spring 2009 put forward a proposal to set up another sample, a legislative committee. As I can see, this legal committee has not yet been reduced. The Christian People's Party has proposed that there be a big message about the use of coercion. As soon as possible we want it. It should provide a broad picture of today’s challenges, it must have the clear objective of reducing the use of coercion and having proposals for action, including whether it is possible to remove the treatment criterion. It is important to anchor this in the Stortinget and keep a constant pressure on the case about the treatment criterion. It means a lot too many. We also propose that the consequences of coercion in mental health protection should be monitored. We need to know which patients are being coerced to, and why. We need to know about the variations in the use of coercion, how the use of coercion affects treatment, and how it is experienced by patients, relatives and treatment staff, and what are better alternatives than the use of coercion. I get a number of enquiries from people who report from Kommune-Norway and from hospitals about reducing treatment provision for the mentally ill. It was never meant to have an escalating plan and then to descend. There are still great and unmet needs. At a meeting with representatives of the patients’ representatives last week, it was said very directly from them that they feel that there are too few daily places today in mental health. They also said that the new Youth Guarantee often worked so that the young person under the age of 23 has a conversation within the guarantee period, but then it can take a very long time before the next consultation. Rapid help when needed and early diagnosis and treatment will also be essential to prevent negative development, where perhaps forced in the worst case will be used later. The Christian People's Party has proposed a plan for further involvement, in particular in the transformation and organisation of mental health protection. We still have a long way to go before we can be satisfied with the offer that mentally ill people receive. Today's debate is about coercion, and there is an urgent need for a comprehensive response to less coercion across the country. There are proposals from the Christian People's Party together with other parties in the vote, I have not reproduced everyone here from the pulpit. The Christian People's Party supports the Left's proposal, presented in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e652	I want to start by thanking the Christian People's Party for promoting this proposal for a representative. The Left promoted a proposal for a representative at the same time during the previous period. This shows that the centre is united about the important common values in society. This is an important thing, because the use of coercion is one of the things that it is important in a liberal society to limit maximum. It's an important value to take care of in society that you don't use coercion against people. What I think is most eye-catching, is that if you look at studies of places where you have systematically worked to reduce the use of force, you can see that the effects have been very large. That means that here we have a lot to go on, here is a lot of coercion being done, which didn't have to be – sail if I think it's a little important to say that comparing different countries when there are so different reports, sometimes can give us a wrong picture of the use of force, also saying that living conditions affect the use of coercion. I live in City of Old Oslo. The City of Old Oslo has six times more schizophrenics than the City of Ullern. Whether it's the living conditions that lead to schizophrenia, or schizophrenia that leads to the living conditions, it's a little hard to say. It's a little hard to say that coercion is practiced more often against people with few resources. It's a little too easy to draw conclusions if you compare, for example. the districts of Oslo. So we probably have to go a lot deeper into it before we know what the result is. Left believes that ideally we should never ever force people, but we know that in some cases it might have to. Then I want to say that if someone were to do it, it's best for health professionals to do it, that you actually have a professional background to do it. But I think we have a lot to do in Norwegian legislation in this area. How can we fight it, as it is today? I would say that the Left very much supports proposals on low-threshold services in social matters. We have also spent money on health sisters in state budgets for the last eight years. But I don't think that might be the main tools in this case. One of the most important things you can do is do something in the drug field, because drugs and psychiatry are closely related. Prevention and work across the drug field are important for combating mental disorders in general and forcing particular attention. Otherwise there are probably three fields that we need a bet on low-threshold services in the psychiatric offer. It's to bet on the DPS, it's to bet on the municipalities, and it's to bet on the organisations that work in this field. It's clear that when people get forced, they're very sick. The best way to avoid coercion is that people get help before they get very sick. Therefore, the lowthreshold provision of psychiatric services is very important to combat the use of coercion in a community. I think that is a great potential. Feedback I have received today from both doctors and others when I wrote on Facebook that I was going to discuss forced labour, is that there is a lot to go about in research, and there is a lot to go about in order for research to be used at all; that this is a field where not much research is being done, and the research being carried out is not being used, which in any case leads to a lot of relatives contacting me regarding new research and new treatments used in other countries, but which are not used in Norwegian psychiatry. I think we have a lot to go on in this area. The left has also promoted its own proposal here in the Chamber. Someone has whispered to me that we can transmit it. It depends a little bit on what the council comments on it. We think it's very important that everyone who has authority to exercise is well educated in ethics, human rights and the thinking behind our liberal democracy – that it actually has some consequences in everyday life when it comes to enforcing decisions. We believe that the training of employees is very important in this area – that is why we have made our own proposal. In addition, of course, we are going to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 — Proposal No 2 — Proposal No 4 and proposal No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e673	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e677	This is an interesting and important debate, which means a lot to many people, and which has a great impact on many people's lives. Moreover, I refer to the position of the Health and Care Committee on the proposal to reduce the use of coercion in mental health protection, and also to my letter of 1 February of this year to the Health and Care Committee. I am pleased that an overall committee believes that the use of coercion must be kept to a minimum. The commitment to mental health in the last decade has resulted in a strong rise in the supply of people with mental illness. This applies to both municipal and specialist health services. We have taken important steps to convert the service into a more accessible and voluntary service, but we still have a way to complete the transition and reduce the use of forced labour. Being subjected to coercion by health professionals or police, as many have been involved in the debate here, can be a very heavy additional burden for a person with mental illness. That's why we have to do what we can to get better in this area. Force use is going down, and my assessment of it is that there is a clear potential for success. At the same time, it is important that enforcement be properly exercised when there is a first need to use coercion. The obligation to help people in distress applies both under human rights and under Norwegian law. The obligation applies in any case, whether it is mental distress or somatic distress. This means that coercion is sometimes necessary, but there must be clear rules on when and how to do so. For many years, Nordfjord DPS has shown that it is possible to reduce waiting times, reduce forced use and insertion through reliable and close cooperation with users. The Jären DPS is another example of a simple substitution of voluntary use from time to time. They created user-controlled daily places where patients with an individual rights contract could volunteer when they needed it. The system has now been tried out, and the number of forced insertions is almost halved. We must learn from this. In 2009, all regional health establishments were commissioned to test out a system of user-controlled daily places, as is done by Jären DPS. In 2010, I expanded the mission so that the requirement to take advantage of good experience from user-based interventions will apply at all district psychiatric centres. I want to closely monitor the further development of the DPS. Health surveillance has identified deficiencies in the quality and competence of the DPS in several locations. It tells us that authorities and healthcare companies have a job to do to ensure the further migration of mental health protection. The User Perspective will have the overall status of the new national strategy for the reduction and proper use of coercion, as announced by the Government in the 2010 government budget. The strategy requires healthcare companies to make local obligatory plans in cooperation with users and municipal services in order to ensure that the objectives are achieved. A treatment philosophy based on volunteering shall be at the heart of how patients are met and cared for. With the new strategy and the announced legislative committee to review ethical, professional and legal aspects of legislation and practice, we are now taking important steps to create a more consistent health service where the need for coercion is reduced to a minimum. So to the proposal promoted by the representative Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. In the context of the work on the national strategy, it is quite natural that teaching materials should also be developed. It may be important, in particular, for the competence in a difficult area and for groups which have not so easily expressed themselves. They are both demented, mentally retarded and mentally ill. I would also like to include the development of teaching materials in the further work on national strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e698	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e701	In January I asked the Council of State a written question. This was a matter where, after repeated reminders, the Health Service in Rogaland had not been given access. I asked for a statement from the Council of State on whether health companies can train and ignore enquiries from the Health Authority, and what, if any, the Council of State would do to ensure that such cases find a quick solution. The Council of State replied that the Ministry has been in contact with the health region in question on this specific matter and that they regret the incident. They have also responded to the State Health Authority. Does the Council of State think it satisfactory that relatives must send her a letter via staggering representatives to be heard in matters of coercion in psychiatry? And what will the Council of State do for others to be heard without having to move forward in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e710	Sometimes it is difficult to comment on matters because it refers to a single matter and it is not expressed which matter – naturally enough – since we are in Stortinget. But in general, I would like to say that it should not be necessary to go through Stortinget to ensure that both the administration, the health companies and the health authorities act in accordance with the applicable legislation. As for what I want to do in this context, I have to say that in general I am also trying to manage this administration in a way that means that we are in agreement with the legislation we are set up to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e717	We agree that it is essential that we continue to strengthen prevention and build up better lowthreshold services, so that patients can get help before they develop acute illness and are subjected to coercion. Both the Psychologists' Association, many municipalities, Mental Health Youth and the Department itself now admit that there are cuts and changes in the municipal offer to people with mental problems. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that it takes this seriously and that it is to be ‘included in the assessment’. It is very good to consider, but I could imagine knowing exactly what the Council of State is doing now to ensure that the offer is maintained both in the health companies and in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e724	I think I can say that there is no area where I have been more in contact with health companies, including through mission documents and business meetings, than in this particular field. I fully agree with Mr Sjöli that it is important that we focus on prevention. When it comes to any cuts, I've also heard that there should be cuts. Therefore, we need to review and carry out a continuous monitoring of the work carried out in the municipalities and in the district psychiatric centres. Because it's not going to be cuts. So it's like somewhere there's a change from 24 hours to day care. It has sometimes been interpreted as cutting, but it is a conversion of the offer. In addition, we have intensified the treatment capacity for outpatient teams from the DPS. So it's done a lot just in my short time to improve and increase the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e733	Early help and diagnosis, which was also discussed by the representative Sjøli, is my question. It is also essential to prevent the negative development of disease and, in the next round, to prevent coercion. In the case of the second-line service – I have also sent a written question about the past – I experience more and more enquiries from municipal doctors, communicators, psychologists, decision-makers, relatives and also from patients who need help with the second-line service. They are in a way firm, or in need of assistance from specialist health services. So the child and youth psychiatry, the DPS or the other line service says, "No, this has to be handled locally." What can the Council of State do to ensure that the second line service – when so many want it and need it – is not allowed to say no either to accept or at least to guide those who actually need help?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e740	Now the clear speech of the figures shows that there has been a huge increase in both treatment capacity and in the number of treatments in the second line service over the years, so at least it has not deteriorated. It is a very serious claim that comes from the representative Davøy, whom I will of course include, because it should not be such that if there is a need for the second line service, one should be prevented from getting help. In general, I would like to say that the most important thing is that you can have different types of services, low-threshold services, so that you don’t have to wait for the second-line service, but that the offer is initially there, and that you don’t develop a disease, which several others have been involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e747	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e752	The use of violence in mental health is about tradition, culture and lack of competence. But it is also a matter of not taking the necessary decisions in this Chamber. Every day, many seriously mentally ill people are picked up by the police when they are at the very sickest. The Progress Party proposed four years ago the establishment of psychiatric ambulance services, as they have established in Bergen, in all health establishments. The Stortinget has not joined in. It has meant that it should be done over time. It turns out it will take a very long time. It is serious when the most sick are picked up by the police at home without the presence of health professionals. Of course, the police have to assist an ambulance when it's necessary. There have been many discussions here, and everyone agrees that there needs to be a different system, but it has still not arrived. Then there's another group that is often forgotten, and I think is also forgotten today, and that's the older ones. In the course of the escalation plan, which lasted for ten years, the health care of the mentally ill elderly was not improved — rather on the contrary. It has been shown in both the National Audit Office's reports and other investigations that the elderly do not benefit from the DPS: the over 60 are very few, and the over 70 are completely absent. The most ill people, those who are usually hospitalized acutely in a psychiatric clinic, are now admitted to regular hospital wards. There are no personnel who can treat them. No one can help them. There are also other people who are not used to living with serious mental illness. This leads to much unnecessary use of coercion. It's been told by those who work in hospitals that they have to throw themselves over a person in order to give a sedative shot, there's a lot of coercive medication, and there's a lot of trouble in the wards. You talk a lot about having to bet on children and young people. It's very important, because otherwise it can have consequences through a long life. But you should not forget that older people are in a phase of life where they are often depressed, and they experience a lot, for example. losing a job, having close family and friends, and they have to move. They also need help not to get seriously ill. It's not like you're getting better at a serious mental illness when you're 60 or 70 years old. You often carry the disease with you your whole life. Then we cannot have older people when they cross a certain age limit, not getting help in the specialist health service. There must be an offer that can catch them in a completely different way from what we see today, because they are not looking for the DPS, and they are not getting any help. I hope that this will also be included in the investigation to be made, so that there will be an investigation that will take care of everyone who needs it, and not just anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e767	I noticed that the representative Toppe was involved with this with the school health service and any personnel standards. What the Christian People's Party has been concerned about in this context is that we might have to set standards, and former Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad gave a positive feedback that she would consider a norm for predictable opening hours, so that young people who need school health care know that, for example. a few hours a week, the health care provider is present and the school health service office is open so that they can go there. Today, there are many very short opening hours, and the time is often covered with services that allow you not only to enter when you need it. It's a way of standardizing that I think it would have been positive if you could evaluate it. Then I just want to go into one more area, which is also embedded in the Committee's position, precisely this because, not least, in the field of mental health protection, human rights are violated. Many people feel that they are being subjected to human rights violations when coercion is being used. What I could imagine asking the Council of State about -- now it's possible that she's not prepared to answer it -- is if in the work that's now going on in the department, she could imagine what's going on in mental health, also in a human rights perspective. I find many of the abuses, which I'll call it, that patients experience in the field of mental health protection, very serious, and I think they also have an estimate of human rights violations. We haven't seen this much in Norway in relation to it. If the council could say a few words about it, it would have been positive. Otherwise, of course, I can do it another way, because that's an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e775	I see it as perfectly natural that this human rights perspective is being brought in. It's nothing new, it's actually a recurring issue when it comes to the use of coercion. So it's perfectly natural that it's also being looked at in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e780	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e796	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e805	In this case, the majority shall examine a proposal by the representatives Per Arne Olsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on measures to ensure the financial management and cost control of health businesses. Three proposals have been made: In introducing an annual hospital proposal II setting up an evaluation group with a view to improving the DRG III system to carry out an external review of health enterprises, including: certification, administrative management and financial control; The proposals have not been endorsed by the majority of the Committee, and I assume that the rapporteurs in the debate will give them more detailed reasons. However, there is broad consensus in the Committee that it is necessary to ensure the planning and long-termity of the activities of health establishments. These include treatment provision, manning, research, maintenance and initial investment. The majority of the Committee points out that a proposal to introduce a separate hospital proposal was addressed by the Stortinget in 2008. At that time, the majority of the Committee pointed out that the objective of providing patients with a comprehensive service is best ensured by seeing the specialist and community health services in the context. This possibility may be weakened by examining the hospital economy in a separate annual proposal. The majority of the Committee points out that the Government has undertaken to develop its national health plan into a more operational tool for priorities in the overall healthcare system. The national health plan shall be a strategic governance document, anchored regionally and locally through a consultation round, including a concreteisation of the leadership that the Stortinget will now adopt in the context of the Cooperation Reform. It will then become an important instrument for good governance of the overall healthcare system. The representatives have also proposed to launch a review of the DRG system. An overall committee considers that there is a need for attention to be paid to the issues related to the DRG system. However, the majority of the Committee considers that there is a need to look at the overall funding system for health enterprises. It is shown, among others: to the Government Platform, where it appears that one will review the whole funding scheme for the health sector in the light of national and international experience. Therefore, a review of only the DRG system becomes too narrow or limited. I also refer to the detailed statement from the Council of State attached to the suspension. Proposals have also been made for an external review of healthcare undertakings for the purposes of certification, administrative governance and cost control. The majority of the Committee considers that this review is not necessary. It also concludes the Council of State in its letter of reply to the Committee. Among other things, the Health Directorate has recently sent a report to the Ministry of Health and Welfare where this issue has been assessed and has concluded that certification or accreditation should not be introduced as a State requirement for health institutions. The economic development of regional health enterprises has been positive in recent years, cost control has improved considerably and the accounts for 2009 will be very close to economic balance. It tells us that the measures that have been put in place in healthcare companies to improve cost control have worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e839	Today, the size has several proposals for financial management in health enterprises. Health enterprises are among the largest jobs in the country and manage tax resources in the 100 billion class. One of the reasons for the hospital reform in 2002 was the need for better organisation and management. The path from justification to achievement has been a counter-ground. Year after year, the accumulated deficits have increased. This is in opposition to an important nerve in democracy — the fact that a populous population determines the income of the community and its distribution. It is not for executive bodies to challenge this over the years. Before the reform, hospitals in county ownership had their own financial frameworks, and there were many established practices with additional consumption of 1 or 2 pst. But small percentages of large numbers become even large numbers. 1-2 pst. out of DKK 100 billion is DKK 1–2 billion – amounts that many others with good common goals almost never get to dream of. Fortunately, during the last year, the sector has found firm ground under its feet. After many years of some significant deficits, health enterprises went on balance-sheeting overall in 2009. This is primarily the result of clearer management by the Ministry of Health and Health towards regional health enterprises. And precisely management is the basis for good results in the kind of competence activities that the specialist health service is. Although the health business world has now shown an economic balance, the sector is demanding and we should continuously assess improvements in operational and incentive structures. The proposal for a representative we are debating today is based on three proposals. The first proposal is that the Storting should consider the allocations of the specialist health service in an annual hospital proposal according to the model of the community proposal. It is indicated that this should improve long-term and predictability. The argument is not unbearable, but I want to emphasise that there should be particularly serious reasons for treating further social sectors in time apart from the state budget. I would also like to point out that the financing of the specialist health service has been marked by predictability. Therefore, the good leaders in the sector are able to accurately predict their planning frameworks already in spring and can make good priorities for next year's budget. The second proposal concerns the diagnostic system of input-driven financing. This system is continuously adjusted to have robustness for its purpose, namely to be a system of state financing of regional health enterprises. The diagnosis groups are rough and therefore not suitable at the level of detail, but are well suited in a macro-economic model between country and regional enterprise. It follows that the system is not suitable at a more detailed level in the specialist health service, for example: towards the individual department. Health business leaders have a responsibility to follow up on this, so that a macroeconomic system is not linked to one and one patient treatment. The last proposal concerns a request from the proposers for an external review of, inter alia, certification, governance and financial control in health enterprises. In my opinion, this would be a gift package for large consultants for taxpayers. Specialist health management is demanding, but we know a lot about what works: an involved leadership that has real cooperation with trustees, protection services and patient organisations. Leadership in the sector is challenging, including: because policies, societies and the research front are constantly making new demands, and these do not always move in the same direction. Good solutions often come from below, and changes need to be anchored in the organisation in order to be robust in implementation. In my opinion, therefore, management of the specialist health service should as a general rule be a non-consultant zone. At the same time, we should focus on how to get the best leaders of the sector. Then the keywords become the right motivational structure and the right incentive structure. In good Norwegian, this means that things other than high pay should be taken into account in the management recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e858	Today, we are discussing a proposal for a representative that will ensure that healthcare businesses have both better planning and better financial management. It has been shown over many years that adequate governance of the health business economy is very demanding. This is demonstrated by growing deficits, poor liquidity, increasing mistreatment and increased waiting lists. The Progress Party sees a clear need for longer-term and predictable governance in health enterprises. In such a context, it is natural to compare the situation of health enterprises with that of the municipal sector, all of which are large public service providers with the need for long-term care. The challenge for municipalities has been taken over by Stortinget, and therefore promotes a separate municipality proposal annually. The Progress Party wants to give health businesses the same predictability and the same possibility for good migration processes as the Stortinget has given to the local government sector. In this context, it is appropriate to recall that health care businesses have long called for more long-term funding. In this way, it will be easier to plan the necessary maintenance, investment and patient provision and, nevertheless, to control the economy and not least the consequences for employees and patients. This is particularly important in the health care system, so we have a guarantee that patients and employees will not be harmed. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: through Document 3:3 for 2009-2010 on the need for longer-term planning in healthcare businesses. I am pleased that the National Audit Office, the Medical Association and the health companies are obviously in agreement with the Progress Party in our conclusion. Civilian parties have called for a review of diagnostic-related group schemes, the so-called DRG system. This will make the system more correct and flexible in terms of pricing healthcare, which will take care of all patient groups and particularly vulnerable groups such as chroniclers. The National Audit Office points out that with the current system there are several cases of deliberate or unconscious error reporting of DRG codes. It is also stressed that internal organisation is problematic. In this context, I would like to refer to the proposal for an external review of the implementation of systems, management, reporting and migration in hospitals. An external review may, for example: is carried out by the Norwegian Veritas. This is done in a number of other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The United States and the United Kingdom. This could have a very positive effect, both in terms of financial management and in terms of patient treatment. We have recently witnessed a number of unfortunate circumstances, including: at the hospital Asker and Bærum. Trixing with waiting list numbers, system failures and mishandlings has been detected. There is no reason to believe that this happens only in one of the country's hospitals. An external review can therefore help to save lives while financial management is under scrutiny. It is therefore possible to make major improvements if the majority of this will support the proposals of the Progress Party. It can't be that we're going to be afraid to see ourselves in the cards. We know that there is a great potential for improvement in how we manage, operate and structure the hospital sector. Therefore, we have to dry out letting external experts look at and make representations about how things are done in Norwegian hospitals today. In this context, I would like to highlight the flawed structure of regional health businesses. There are costly and unnecessary intermediates, which both cost money and create regional differences in health services, as the National Audit Office clearly demonstrates. The promotion party is engaged in an effective and good hospital offer to all in Norway, regardless of income and geographical affiliation. The proposals we are considering today will be important instruments for achieving a safe, good and well-functioning hospital service for patients and individuals in Norway. It will, as I see it, be wise for the majority in this House to put party politics dividing lines aside and vote for the proposals of the Progress Party. This is what employees, patients and taxpayers deserve. I would like to include these proposals in the vote where the Progress Party is the proposer or co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e896	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e899	It is a good and exciting proposal by the representatives of the Progress Party. It is necessary to look at ways in which health businesses can better manage their activities through more predictable framework conditions. It's quite natural to draw the parallel to the way a treats the community proposition. Many of the same reasons will also apply to our hospitals. It is not only that there is a parallel between the situation with regard to the management of hospitals and that with regard to the management of the municipalities, but in the context of working with the Interaction Reform, where one should see the community health service and the specialist health service in a wider context, it would also be a positive move to have a treatment parallel to the framework conditions, changes and adjustments in the relationship between the two sectors. It would provide the Storting with an early opportunity, before the government budget is presented, to make and provide clarifications related to changes in the system, financial mechanism, principles between the primary health service and the specialist health service at a time when both of these sectors would be able to spend some more time on planning and implementation. This would also lead to a more fundamental discussion related to these system changes without being directly linked to the proposals for appropriations, which are coming later, in the State budget. So the Right supports the proposal. We are also very clear that at this point in time, we do not believe it would be natural for such a hospital proposal to contain the overall framework for the sector, because if one treats both the framework of the municipal sector and the framework of the hospital sector in the Great Britain in the spring, the two main sectors of the State budget will in reality be clarified at a different time than the rest. Within the Government, this would present a challenge related to the priorities between the different sectors at a very early stage. Nevertheless, there may be reason – based on this – to start a discussion on the treatment and work of the State budget in general, to look at the possibility of also addressing the framework of the State budget in several rounds in the Grand Duchy, just to get that kind of clarification at an early stage. But that's part of a bigger discussion. The proposal to review the DRG system and its consequences is also supported by the Right. We believe that the system has basically made significant improvements in the management of the sector. It has provided improvements in terms of efficiency, better use of resources, but it also gives some governance challenges, which I think it is right to go through, not least in terms of priorities between different sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e912	Securing financial management and cost control in the hospital sector has been a central theme in the health sector for many years. Even when the county council was in charge of hospitals, the discussion was high about underfinancing, growing patient queues and constant extra-permissions in the Stortinget. Intervention funding, ISF, was introduced in 1997, and from 2002 the State assumed responsibility for the hospital sector. After the ISF was introduced in 1997, the queues were reduced just enough, but the problem was that expenditure exploded. Sjukehusa was motivated by effort-driven funding, but in a direction that weakened the state's cost control. The centre party believes there is a need to look at the funding system for healthcare professionals in a holistic way. It is important that the ISF system builds on is as up-to-date as possible with regard to changes in medical practice and that the DRG is constantly being evaluated. It is not that the tasks and organisation of the services should be adapted to the funding system, but that the funding system should support its activity. I would like to show the political platform for the multi-annual government, where the Government will review the financing arrangements for the specialist services in the context of the further work on the cooperation reform and in the light of national and international experience. The centre party looks forward to this work, and believes that the concern behind the opposition's proposal for a dedicated evaluation group for the DRG system will thus be taken care of. Then I must be allowed to say that there is reason to note that the Progress Party, which now requires external review and change, was itself a driver of the hospital and enterprise reform and a keen supporter of introducing New Public Management thinking into the public sector. Intervention-driven funding and diagnostic-related groups are a direct consequence of introducing New Public Management thinking into the health sector. A key strategy within this trend is to transfer models from private business to the public sector. The centre party has always been skeptical of such a development. What we are now most concerned about are the many feedbacks that are given that the use of input-driven funding and diagnostic-related groups in misuse may have an impact on professional priorities. E.g.: In 2007, the Directorate-General for Health carried out an investigation of response-driven funding and reported more feedback that the ignition requirement is becoming too strong and could affect the quality and priority of patient treatment. They write that they are concerned that the funding system is perceived as a priority instrument with a wide range of approaches to clinical practice. There is much evidence that the reason for this is uncritical use of the system at an too low organisational level. This shows the need for a review in view of how the response-driven funding scheme is practised. There will be errors in the use of time and forces on code works and the types of diagnosis that it pays to apply to the various patients for which they have professional responsibility. To the proposal for an annual hospital proposal, the centre party believes it would be wrong to see this without having to look at it in conjunction with the community health service. We will again refer to the Government’s policy platform, where a letter stating that the National Health Plan should be further developed to become a more operational hub for priorities within the overall health and care service. He shall ensure good political governance by being a strategic health management document. In order to secure a real priority debate, county councils must be involved in a hearing. The Centre Party does not share its view that there is a need for an external review of healthcare professionals. for the purposes of certification, administrative governance and financial control. There are already several external reports on the economy and activity in health care services, including health care. from the Directorate of Health, SINTEF Health, the National Audit Office and the Health Inspectorate. In addition, internal reports have been produced. This together provides a good basis for implementing measures to ensure professional and organisational management of the hospital sector over the years to come. The close balance of the hospital sector in 2009 is another argument that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e929	Over the past few weeks, we have received a message of concern from the management of the new Oslo University Hospital. They informed Health Southeast that they would not handle the changes to the new hospital with the budget they had been allocated. The message was clear: it was not enough money for both conversion and operation. 536 million. kr was what was missing to balance. 500 jobs were proposed, and the cheese needs principle would cover the rest. The County of Oslo and Akershus are concerned that this will affect patient treatment. The Commissioner for Public Health Knut Arild Hareide asked the Minister for Health about this recently, with concern that this would affect patients. The answer from the Council of State was that she is going to follow closely what is happening. After this, Health South-East has said that Oslo University Hospital can go with a deficit for a few years, if they go with a profit. This case is just one of many similar in healthcare companies and hospitals elsewhere in the country during these days. Budgetary requirements and conversion requirements are imposed, and hospitals are working hard to keep budgets. Almost daily we hear about departments and hospitals that are proposed to be closed or reduced, about offers that disappear. In most hospitals, there is great concern for patients. The Christian People's Party has supported some of the proposals in the proposal, in order to ensure better cost control and financial governance in healthcare companies. Among other things, the proposal for a separate hospital proposal at the same time as the municipal proposal is a proposal which could give hospitals better time to plan and increase the financial predictability of operations. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal to review and improve the DRG system. It is important that this is a functional system that does not require much resources to handle. Nor should there be code activity that controls the time use and the disposal of resources in hospitals. Health crowns should be used primarily for patient treatment, not coding, even if it needs to be done. Proper registration and coding of patient treatment are important – this is primarily because it ensures the correct data base for which diseases patients are affected and the treatment provided by hospitals. When the new Oslo University Hospital is stacked on its legs, and competences and environments have been accumulated, I think it should be time to look at the organisation of regional health companies. In 2002, when the hospital reform came into force, they played an important role in coordinating the many hospitals in the five regions at the time. That's about it. 40 local health establishments. Now there are only 20 local health companies, and the coordination work has become quite different. This will be much easier for a central overall body, which, of course, should aim at ensuring equivalent healthcare throughout the country – which unfortunately we do not have today in all areas. It also violates a fundamental principle for our healthcare. Furthermore, responsibility for the local adaptation of the health supply should be transferred to the local health establishments. To a large extent, therefore, it would be a decentralisation issue to reduce regional health enterprises. They're about to do the job. There is also time for adjustments now – almost ten years after the hospital reform. The reason why I deal with this matter is that health care companies are, in many ways, and will end up as, a large bureaucratic system that actually removes the money from patient treatment. In the Christian People's Party, we welcome the fact that this too will be part of the work to be done in the future – i.e. an assessment of whether the regional health companies have not now done the job they are going to do and whether these funds can be used in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e948	I agree with the Committee that it is necessary to ensure the planning and long-termity of hospital activities. These include treatment provision, manning, research, maintenance and investment. At the same time, I have to say that, especially after the last article, I find reason to stress that in 2009 regional health companies were in total balance for the first time – three of them with a surplus, and one with a smaller deficit, if you look at it as a percentage of the size. I just want to make such an overall remark that for approx. 100 billion DKK should be possible to create a good health offer in Norway. Although I agree that it is important to plan and have a long-term perspective, in my opinion it is not a proper approach to bet on annual hospital proposals. We need good national planning systems that can better facilitate looking at the different parts of healthcare services in the context, as indicated by the Government in the interaction message. The Government will therefore develop the national health plan into a more operational tool for priorities in the overall health care service. The plan is to present a new national health and care plan during 2010. As I did in the debate in connection with the examination of the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:3 for 2009–2010, I can agree that it is important that major changes are notified as early as possible. I will consider such alerts where this is possible. The Committee considers that there is a need for attention on issues related to the DRG system and the ISF system. Registration and reporting of diagnosis and procedures from hospital to Norwegian patient registry forms the basis for the DRG classification. Such data collection is a prerequisite for input-driven funding, but also for governance and administration and for research. Regular updating and development of the DRG system is necessary because treatment practices are changing and new methods are being used. Information on new patient treatment and diagnostic procedures is integrated into the DRG system. The codes describing the procedures are regularly updated. The cost of individual patients could also change as treatment practices and methods change. The cost weights of the DRG system have been updated annually over the last years to capture these changes, reflecting as much as possible the cost picture of each DRG. Major changes are announced as early as possible for business planning and budgetary work. There have been good developments in this area in recent years. The 2010 conversions were notified in the mission documents of the regional health enterprises for 2009, i.e. at least one year before launch. In addition, health businesses were kept informed through 2009 until implementation in 2010. Some of the criticisms of the ISF scheme are due to the fact that some expect the ISF reimbursement to be fully compensated for the costs of hospitalisation. We have to remember that the ISF refund is meant to cover only part of the costs. Intervention-driven funding is not and shall not be a system for the efficient financing of individual patients or individual departments. The ISF reimbursement, together with the basic appropriations, shall support the responsibilities of regional health establishments. With regard to the proposal for an external review of healthcare businesses, I would like to point out that there are already many activities related to certification and/or accreditation in healthcare businesses. The Directorate for Health has assessed the implementation of certification or accreditation and does not recommend that this be introduced as a State requirement. I support the Health Directorate's assessment and have noted that the majority in the Committee share my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e975	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e978	I am well aware that authorisation schemes for blood banking are in place, and now the Progress Party proposes that work be started to establish a certification scheme for health establishments. As the Council of State says, the Directorate has assessed it and the country that such a requirement should not be imposed. However, the Council of State points out in its reply to the Committee that clarification of the internal control requirements could have the same effect. Then my question is: what is the concrete state council going to clarify in internal control to ensure the necessary quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e985	It's always so that internal control can be improved all the time as a continuous process, and there's some of what I'm doing to strengthen internal control. Now I have not mentioned the word «internal control» in my post, but that is something I absolutely believe it is important to focus on, improve and focus on continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e990	In the reply to the Health and Welfare Committee of 18 December 2009 on this proposal, the Council of State writes: ‘The work on the interaction reform has led to an even greater awareness of the different levels of healthcare in the context. In my opinion, therefore, it will not be a proper step to bet on annual hospital proposals.’ What is the logical argument behind such a conclusion in view of the fact that the municipal proposition is presented in May and a separate proposition would thus give the opportunity to precisely see these health services in a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1000	If it were such that I thought that a total proposition for both the community health service and the specialist health service would be the answer, and that in this way you would see things in context, that could be right. However, with regard to the reference to the Interaction Reform, there is much more focus on seeing the primary health service in the context of the specialist healthcare service, and that is what it refers to there. So I want to say that betting on this kind of proposition once a year is not the right grip. What is important is that health businesses get notified of changes, and, as I pointed out, the changes introduced for 2010 were actually notified almost one year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1005	I have a question for the Council of State on a national health plan, as the Council of State outlines it, will safeguard the economic predictability that is absolutely necessary and that has been requested – not only what will happen to action, but also how the economy will actually be.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1010	I would say that there is predictability in terms of the economy of health businesses. There were also several who, during the debate we had on the Riksrevisions Document 3:3 for 2009-2010, confirmed that there is a reasonable predictability in terms of the budgets of health companies if we look back on time – at least it has been under this government. With regard to the national health plan, it is clear that there will be much more of a plan that looks at the overall health provision in the context, and is thus intended to be an operational plan for what it is important to focus on. And of course, the economy needs to be secured, as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1017	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1022	I'm just going to stay a little bit with this proposal on a hospital proposition. The representative, Bent Höie, had some of the problem of having his own hospital proposal at the same time as dealing with the municipal bill, namely that the budget would then be treated roughly up to half of the budget in June. The municipal bill is over NOK 300 billion, and the specialist health service framework is well up to NOK 100 billion. It must be a problem for more than the government parties to divide the state budget into two treatments and to treat only two of the sectors in the spring. More than government parties need to be able to see the state budget as a whole and assess the framework against each other in a comprehensive way, as a government budget will be treated early in December of each year. So I need to ask the opposition parties more about exactly the problem that will arise if you're going to deal with the two heaviest budgets separately and frame it. The second challenge that has been addressed is that of the predictable framework and the DRG system. Experience has shown that increased basic funding, the basic framework, for the specialist health service, has also increased budgetary control. It is contrary to what the Right Party and the Advance Party propose here, namely to increase the DRG share to 60 pst. It was in the years we had the high ISF share, we had the biggest problems keeping the framework within the specialist health service. But when we've reduced the ISF share to 40 pst. and increased the basic framework to 60, and more and more the budgetary framework has been monitored, and now the budgets are almost in balance in 2009. Then I also want to say that when it comes to an assessment of the DRG system in general, I do not hide that SV is critical to the whole system. Incentives are increasing in volume, and there are a number of issues related to the fact that the weakest patient groups are coming out worse. The Committee has been in the United States not long ago and visited Kaiser Permanente, where it was pointed out that there are other incentives that could be used in the financing of specialist health services and health services, including: quality, availability, interaction and prevention. There are incentive schemes that, for SV, it is much more interesting to study in more detail when dealing with the entire funding scheme in the Government – i.e. other types of incentives that promote the objective of the Cooperation Reform. We also have examples of a country like Scotland terminating the entire ISF scheme and financing everything with framework funding. They have been given control of the economy and deliver good results in terms of health care to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1035	It was the rapporteur's last post that prompted me to take the floor again. I let it pass because the representative of the Central Party had the word in place. I'm happy, as a former state politician, because we got the reform we had in 2002. I'm happy that we had a government council like Tore Tønne who took what the Progress Party had been in for years before, seriously, and made sure that the hospitals were turned into the state's responsibility. Then we disagree a little bit about the order-executor-bit. We would have organized it a little bit differently. But I think a contributing reason that we can say that we are now almost for the first time in history can get health companies that are almost in balance is that it is a state responsibility. Now we're releasing the blackmail between state politicians and big-time politicians, as we're going to see in the road sector in the future. Then a point is made that when the basic appropriations increased and the input-driven funding was reduced, more control was gained, as was said on the part of the rapporteur. I would say that what happened then was that the health cows grew. What we saw was we got 60 pst. ISF, the health cows that were then about 250,000 people, were dramatically reduced. Because it was thought that the costs came out of control, the 60-40 key has been converted to the reverse, so it is now 40 pst. ISF share and 60 pst. basic appropriations, and now health cows are increasing again. Then the question is, who are we here for? Is it for patients' sake or is it for politicians to have control? That's what it boils down to. For the Progress Party, it's the patients we're most concerned about. At that time, we believe that a higher ISF share is a contributing factor in the treatment of patients in need of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1044	The representative Gåsvatn asks who we are for – whether it's for patients, or whether it's for the economy. I would like to stress that I have commented on a proposal from the Progress Party that aims to obtain cost control. That is what the whole debate is about, and that is what underlies the various proposals promoted by the Progress Party. In this respect, it has been shown that increased basic appropriations are the most effective means of cost control, while the proposal put forward by the Progress Party and the Right to increase the ISF share has historically proved to be what creates the greatest problems for cost control. When we had that, we also had the biggest deficits in the hospitals. Fortunately, we have managed to have high basic funding and, at the same time, also clear reductions in health cows. And then it turns out that both of them are going. It is also the experience they have had in Scotland.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1050	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2510]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1066	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated up to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties, and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1075	It's a happy day today – not least for the United States, which got its health reform last night. But also here in Stortinget, this is the day of an important matter. Since the 1950s, the idea of establishing a register of cardiovascular diseases has been discussed in the healthcare community and in the public at large. Not without reason: As most people want to know, such disorders are among our major public diseases and cause about. 40 pst. of all deaths. Today, a wish over 50 years of age can be fulfilled. The proposal proposes the establishment of a national register of cardiac arrests, which shall be person-identifiable and exempt from consent requirements. It shall consist of a basic register and associated quality records with the National Public Health Institute as the controller. We have per cent. currently nine central non-consent-based, person-identifiable registers, regulated by the Health Register Act § 8, and new such registers may only be created by decision of the Stortinget. Today we can have the tenth. There is no doubt that a cardiovascular registry will contribute to improving the quality of prevention, diagnosis and treatment, to research on causes of disease, the incidence of the population, and to improving the management of healthcare with a view to achieving good knowledge-based priorities. It is in the interests of the patient and the general public that we now have a national register of cardiovascular diseases. At the same time, it is a challenge that such a register will contain personal information on health matters which are subject to professional secrecy. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government attaches great importance to the inclusion of personal data in the register under strict rules and to the establishment of good legal, technical and physical solutions to ensure that the information does not deviate. In this way, it will be possible to combine the purpose of the register with a good level of privacy. The Government calls for the issue of a general right of reservation for health records to be assessed and investigated under the auspices of the National Health Registry Project and is followed up in the work on a regulation for national heart and health records. This is a practice for the quality registers in Sweden, which are used by only 0.5 pst., e.g. in the nationwide Swedish brain impact register. Experience in Sweden shows, in other words, that such a right of reservation does not impair the quality of the register – and the government parties support the proposal in the proposal. It is strange, therefore, that the opposition could not join the majority comment at this point, all the time they strongly emphasize the importance of a right of reservation. But that's what I expect to be illuminated in the opposition's own posts. The vast majority of the hearing bodies, including important patient organisations such as the National Association for Cardiopathic and Pulmonary Disease and the Diabetes Association, support the Government's proposal for a person-identifiable register without requiring consent. Most are in favour of the proposal for internal encryption of the register, which involves the possibility of personal identification, but where identifying data such as birth and personal numbers are kept inaccessible and separated from other general variables. Decryption, i.e. access to person-identifying information from the registry shall only be provided by authorised personnel who have a legitimate need for it. A small minority of hearing bodies are in charge of a pseudonymised register, where the name and person number have been replaced by a pseudonym, and where feedback and personal identification are not supposed to happen. The opposition's view is that a pseudonymous health register can serve the purpose of the register and believes that the pseudonymous method, if desired, can also allow for personal identification, despite the fact that the justification of such a register is precisely anonymity. We would point out that the practice of internal encryption proposed in the proposition is common in our Nordic neighbouring countries, where otherwise it has never been discussed to use pseudonymous registers. And there is nothing to suggest that in these countries there has been a lower level of privacy because of the fact that internal encrypted records have been kept; on the contrary, the experience in this field is very good. In internally encrypted registers, it is possible to invite individual participants to research projects, to inform about mistreatment where appropriate, to offer new treatment methods or to provide patients with follow-up over time. Our Nordic neighbouring countries Sweden, Denmark and Finland have for several decades had national registers for many different diseases – records maintained by similar institutions as the Swedish Institute of Public Health. If the Storting decides today to set up a central cardiac registry, we are an important step on the way to where our neighbouring countries are today. I want to tell you that I only take 5 minutes, because our fractional leader is also going to have an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1098	The President has no knowledge of that. I give the floor to those who have asked for the floor. Tove Karoline Knutsen was now finished. She had an available speaking time of up to 10 minutes. The summit was referred to by the President and approved by the Stortinget on a proposal from the Committee. The next speaker is Jon Hunter Gåsvatn, and for the record: The representative Gåsvatn has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1105	Medical research continues to make progress. This ensures that more people are safe and well treated in health care, and it helps to save lives, and that's good. Research on treatment is one thing, but even more important is the research that is taking place, which means that we can prevent diseases to a greater extent than in the past. It is important that the Storting stimulates research environments for further research in important areas of health. The Ministry of Health and Health proposes, as a continuation of this, the establishment of a separate cardiovascular registry. This will undoubtedly contribute to improving the quality of diagnostics and the treatment of these diseases, but it is equally important that such a register could strengthen the knowledge base for prevention work. This will be socially profitable, but much more important: it will help save lives. The Progress Party will support the proposal to establish a separate register for cardiovascular diseases. Such a register may, in the long term, both prevent and contribute to the better treatment of those diseases. However, the challenge with a register is to ensure privacy. The interest in privacy is indispensable for the Progress Party, and it is at this point that we believe that the Government does not comply. Data protection is crystal clear in its conclusion that the Government’s proposal for a system of processing personal data is in no way good enough. For example, government lots would not allow for possible reservation rights in order to have their information entered in such a register. This in itself weakens the individual’s ability to secure his/her own personal data. The fact that the Government will have a person-identifiable register without consent is a serious interference in privacy – an intervention against which the Progress Party will warn. It is appropriate to remind the Storting that the Medical Association believes that the Department's proposal will seriously undermine the obligation of professional secrecy and the patient's claim to confidentiality. The Progress Party emphasises that a pseudonym based register based on consent will be the best option. Similarly, a pseudonym based register will provide good opportunities for research and maintain the registry’s intention without compromising privacy considerations. The views of the Progress Party have been confirmed by the consultation round from, inter alia, Health sector IT Competence Centre – KITH. It is also an important point that the National Association for Cardiopathic and Pulmonary Disease was primarily in favour of external encryption in its consultation opinion on the proposal for a cardiovascular code. This shows that the Government goes beyond many of the hearing bodies, for example what the Data Protection Authority and the LHL sees the need for. The Progress Party will pay particular attention to the fact that an ongoing extension of the possibility of the distribution of sensitive personal data by itself involves an infringement of the right to privacy if the registry is not based on consent. This must always be weighed against the desire for more research specifically related to disease prevention. The fact that the Data Protection Authority, the Medical Association and other Hearing Officers consider that this proposal involves a breach of professional secrecy and a serious deterioration of privacy cannot be overlooked by the Stortinget. Medical research is important, but by introducing a pseudonymous register, we can achieve good research results related to both treatment and prevention. In this way, we don't have to go along with privacy. The Stortinget must then show that privacy is still very important to the legislative assembly. Such extensive access to the dissemination of private and personal health information provided by this Government scares me. In our view, the Ministry's wide-ranging powers to regulate issues of fundamental importance to privacy are a democratic problem. I get a feeling that Orwell's horror scenario isn't that far away. I will therefore be allowed to address the proposal where the Progress Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1139	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1142	Initially, I would like to say that it is a pleasure for one to establish more health records in Norway. The right has been a driver to establish quality records in Health-Norway. I believe that it is absolutely essential to improve the quality of our services, develop and improve treatment, and not least lay the basis for new medical research to provide greater survival for our patients. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Right has provided significantly more money related to the creation of more health registers. However, this issue also concerns the development of health registers, in particular against privacy. We believe that it is a prerequisite for the quality of the registers, that it is a prerequisite for the confidence of the population in the registers, and therefore also a prerequisite for the possibility of future research and development linked to this information that data protection is adequately and properly protected. We believe that the proposal put forward by the Government here does not correspond to this. This debate goes back to the debate on the Health Register Act, Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005–2005, where the National Association of Cardiovascular Diseases, Competence Centre for Health and Social Technology, Data Protection Agency, Norwegian Medical Association, National Centre for Telemedicine, Social and Health Directorate, Statistical Central Bureau, SINTEF, Cancer Association and the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, all in their hearing opinions were opposed to the privacy system set up by the Government in this matter, namely that an individual should not have external encryption but internal encryption of personal-identifiable information, which clearly poses a privacy challenge. Today, the consultation period for «Good health records – better health» expires. In this context, in view of the way in which one handles this first real test piece, which this register implies, the Data Protection Authority has clearly stated in its consultation opinion that one of these places privacy aside. The Data Protection Authority has also said that the system that you put up here could be a violation of human rights. It is quite serious when the government in this trial, which this case represents, chooses to present a proposal where such central and important hearing bodies warn against this and say that this is a weakening of privacy. At the same time, we feel that this does not make any impression at all on the Council of State or on the Government. In its talks of 27 January at the Health in Development 10 conference of the Health Directorate, the Council of State said the following about the health records: ‘If we are to achieve quality improvement, we need to have registers that allow us to link information and research knowledge that can bring healthcare forward. I would never forgive anyone if privacy were to prevent the possibility of getting the right treatment of the best quality." This is alarming, it's historyless, and it's a little bit of a reflection. It expresses an opinion that the goal is devoted to all means. History has many examples of how grotesque medical research has violated fundamental human rights. This research may have led to better treatment, but individuals have paid an unacceptable price. Therefore, it can never be that the aim of health research is to allocate all funds. Therefore, it must always be such that the protection of the rights and privacy of individuals must be more important than the result of health research. And for the record, it's actually not the country's legislative and elected assembly that's going to ask the Council of State for forgiveness to put privacy first. On the other hand, there is a great danger that this Council of State will have to ask quite a number of patients in Norway for forgiveness because one has not taken privacy seriously. Nor is it correct, as the rapporteur said, that we are going here to our neighbouring country. Neither Denmark nor Sweden has these types of registers as independent legal entities. They record this type of information from other existing registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1162	There is a broad consensus on the need to establish a cardiovascular registry. It is important to gain more and better knowledge about the cause, occurrence and treatment of cardiovascular diseases, which is the largest population of diseases in this country. Despite a reduction in the risk of such diseases and an increase in the survival rate over the past 30 years, there is about an increase in the risk of such diseases. 40 pst. of all deaths caused by cardiovascular diseases. A national register will have a major impact on research, improved patient treatment and quality assurance in the service. There is disagreement as to whether this register should be identity-identifiable or pseudonymous, where the identity of the patient is encrypted. Will a person-identifiable register infringe personal data protection disproportionately? The dimension of privacy is very important in the establishment of health records and in the context of electronic patient records previously adopted by the Storting and it will be of great importance when ICT is to be introduced in the health sector, as it has been foreseen in the context of the Interaction Reform. That is why the majority of the Committee has paid great attention to this dimension in its position. The majority require internal encryption of the registry, which implies the possibility of personal identification, but where identified data such as birth and person numbers are kept inaccessible and separated from other non-identifiable variables. Access to person-identifiable data from the registry shall only be carried out by personnel who have a legitimate need for it. The majority also emphasise that work on privacy in health records must be a continuous process. It is shown, among others: for the NOU 2009:1 Privacy Commission to give broad publicity to privacy in the health sector. In this context, the majority of the Committee stressed that the work on privacy needs to be paralleled with the creation of new registers. So this is a work that needs to be given great attention, and that is, among other things. must be given priority when a case concerning the coordination of health records comes up. Finally, the majority of the Committee has also indicated that one should assess the possibility of a right of reservation against being registered in the Cardiff and Cardiff Register. They have such a right of reservation, among other things: in Sweden. It has been concluded that the right of reservation has not impaired the quality of the register. In the SV we agree that such a right of reservation should be provided. It helps to strengthen privacy. My conclusion is that the necessary balances that must be made in the relationship between the establishment of a heart and heart registry as presented by the Government, acquire us more knowledge of the public disease that takes most lives, while at the same time ensuring the protection of privacy, have been satisfactorily safeguarded in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1179	First, I want to agree with the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen that this is a ‘day of joy’. A national register of cardiovascular diseases is now to be finally adopted by the Stortinget. The center party thinks it's high time. The idea of establishing a national register has been discussed in Norway since 1955. A national register for this disease group will have a major impact on research, better patient treatment and quality assurance in the healthcare system. Cardiovascular diseases are today the largest group of people's diseases in Norway. Therefore, we need more knowledge about the causes, occurrence and treatment of cardiac and mania. In the creation of the heart and career register, it is a challenge that this will contain sensitive information on health conditions that are subject to mandatory care. Therefore, the proposal emphasises that the information contained in the register should be subject to strict rules and that good legal, technical and physical solutions should be established to ensure that the information is not compromised. After the department's assessment, a person-identifying register will provide the best possible quality assurance of data without consent and will therefore be more suitable than other types of register to provide a basis for better treatment and prevention of heart and masculinity. The centre party supports this. Requirements for strict procedures and systems in the register itself, including: in the form of encryption of direct person-identifying information, logs and limitations in view of who and how many persons have access to personal data, the protection of privacy will be ensured. The centre lot will also indicate that reservation rights should be assessed more generally for health records. We support that department write that this issue can be assessed under the National Health Register Project and be followed up in the work on a regulation for the Heart and Card Register. The contents of the register shall also be specified in this Regulation. The centre party will also demonstrate that the proposed heart and registry will only contain information from diagnostic genetic examinations, i.e. examinations taken to make a diagnosis. In the proposal, the department also proposes a new destination in health professionals. A quality assurance, administration, planning and management dispensation facility shall be established. The majority of hearing aids have been positive to the proposal. The central party agrees that the current legislation has prevented the desire for necessary cooperation across entities and the possibility of comparison between hospitals. The centre party argued that the level of person-identifying information in such exceptions should be as low as possible and that clear information security, limitations in use and erasure requirements are set after a period of time. We assume that the legislation relating to the regulations preserves privacy by providing data that is not directly personally identifiable by health regulators, using methods that prevent, as far as possible, re-identification or ‘return information’. In the view of the Centre Party, proposed changes to health records and healthcare professionals will be of good interest to privacy. The establishment of a national register of cardiovascular diseases will be at the best of the patient, and it is a long-term establishment. That's why this is a happy day. The fact that the Government proposes that the register of hearts and careers with 10 workplaces of competence be added to the Department of the Institute of Public Health in Bergen does not make any less happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1192	The Christian People's Party supports the establishment of a cardiovascular system. I almost want to read it one more time, because according to some posts it sounds like you've perceived it so that the opposition parties don't want it. So, we support the establishment of a cardiovascular registry. This will help improve the quality of diagnostics and treatment. However, since a national register will contain sensitive information subject to professional secrecy, the Christian People's Party wants stricter rules to ensure privacy better than the Government has provided. Weaving information must not reveal who it is. That's why we want a pseudonymous register where patients' identity is encrypted by an independent body, and we also want the register to be based on consent or reservation rights. In the case of changes to the Health Care Act which allow or are to be used for quality assurance, administration, planning or health care management, the Christian People's Party shall vote against. This is a clear hollowing out of the obligation of professional secrecy, as we see it. It is a prerequisite for the establishment of health records that the useful value of the register exceeds the data protection disadvantages of the individual data subject. That's a good starting point. However, this assumption in this case does not take into account e.g.: the number of health records needed. It also does not assess the overall impact of the sum of registers containing sensitive health information. We have a National Institute for Public Health, which naturally has a special focus on utility and easy access to health records. The better the data they have to research, the more knowledge can be generated. Consent and reservation rights prevent the data sets from becoming complete, we hear from there. It's also engrossing and takes more time. Personal identification makes it easier to follow the patient's movements in and out of hospitals, they say, and between departments. These are arguments used by the Institute that are both responsible for the registers and use the registers for research purposes. However, from the government side, I had expected a broader perspective, a more holistic thinking. I feel that there is a lack in the proposition about these changes in the law. In particular, it is important to note that the Joint Organisation of Disabilities, the Data Protection Commission, the Data Protection Authority and the Medical Association all of whom have been involved have expressed concerns that privacy is actually being compromised in healthcare. The fundamental right to privacy is enshrined in international human rights conventions. We have large and good health records in Norway, and this is noted abroad. This provides a unique starting point for research. Many think we could have been much further ahead if we had used this material better, without being hindered by too many laws and regulations. However, we must not be blinded by the possibilities. Some are also concerned that individualism is given too much space in society, while the duty of citizens to contribute to the community is reduced. If ever fewer people are willing to share their health information, this affects research, it is said. Trust in health authorities and researchers is a prerequisite for people to contribute their health information to research. But then they have to know that sensitive health information does not get the wrong way, and that privacy has been protected in the best possible way. In addition, it must be easy for everyone to understand. It's also important for trust. We need to know what we consent to, or what we can reserve against. I would say that the debate on this matter does not help to increase confidence in health records, in researchers or in politicians, for that matter. Words are against words, and it's hard to know who has the truth on its side. I also think that the hearings we have had in the committee give a picture of that. It must be possible to create health records that both ensure the ability to produce good research data and the right of patients to decide on their own sensitive information. That should be a goal for all of us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1215	When this government goes from time to time – it doesn't have to be long – a lot in the country is going to be better, something is going to be worse, but in one field, this government is going to be a tragedy, and it's privacy. It's really a field that's completely neglected, it's really a field that you don't have any commitment to. You don't even have the perspective when you're working with the different disciplines. In particular, it concerns attitudes to health information, the most private thing about us. When the world goes against us, we're kind of forced into a system to get help, and there's a very sluggish attitude to what's good privacy. You have a low level of commitment on it. This I think is pretty scary. We see that Nav is still losing his records, we're still looking at hospital scandals where you lose records. You have a very delicate view of the legal field here, but what goes on health information, I actually think is the most serious thing. One thing is that you are not on a team with the Data Protection Agency, which is just supposed to take care of the person part – the left also chooses to be on a team with the Data Protection Authority – but when you are not even on a team with the Medical Association in terms of privacy, which is also supposed to take care of medical matters, you should call a bell or two. Then you should be seriously worried. The left is very much to register and research on diseases. The left is very much to use new technologies to generate new research, and the great thing about the new technology is that it can give us all the opportunities to gather information efficiently and well – and anonymously. While in the old days you didn't have that opportunity, technology gives us a great opportunity to research information anonymously. It gives us a great opportunity to simply ask for an agreement, and that consent will be so far or so small. I mean, for example. that the vast majority of those with a serious disease would like to contribute to research in this area. I think most people would say yes to input information. But here you undermine the very trust in the system because you can't take care of privacy properly. I also believe the right not to be called up by a scientist who says he's found out that you might get sick in eight years, is a freedom people must have. Now you're doing research projects that assume that everyone wants to get that phone. But what if you don't want to get it? What if you don't want to deliver your tests, deliver your information and get that research because you don't want to get that phone that you might have to worry about? I believe you have the same right to reserve yourself against situations that you have the right to know that there may be something wrong with the information you have given to the health care system, which makes you think you should be particularly careful about something. That's why technology gives us a lot of opportunities, but if we don't set limits on it, it's going to undermine the very trust between patient and doctor, the trust of researchers and the trust in our health care system. I imagine that it can have many consequences when trust is undermined in the way it is now done by creating such systems. I think, therefore, you should stress not only the right not to be researched – I don't think there are many who don't want it to be researched on the information they provide – but just as much of the right to not be called, the right to not relate later to the information you have given up. I believe that all citizens must have the full right to give notice. So I'm a little startled that the government didn't learn from the previous round we had about health records, that you just walk forward here, and that you don't have any basic reflections about trust in our whole health system, trust patient-medical, trust that researchers are actually just working for the best, and the confidence that we're going to be able to provide as much information as possible to get on. It's the trust this government is playing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1233	The President would point out that the use of terms such as ‘sleep attitude’ and ‘tragedie’ to describe the policies of others is unparliamentary in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1236	Cardiovascular diseases are our largest group of public diseases, and such diseases cause most deaths and serious disabilities. Each year, 12,000 to 15,000 people are affected by acute myocardial infarction and an equal number of acute strokes. We don't have enough knowledge of this kind of disease. For this reason, the Government proposes to establish a national register of cardiovascular diseases. I am pleased that a majority of the Health and Welfare Committee is in favour of establishing such a register. An overall task of the Government is to ensure that the health of the population is best cared for. A national register of cardiovascular diseases will provide increased knowledge on cardiovascular diseases and on how to prevent such diseases. Furthermore, it will contribute to quality in diagnosis and treatment, as the Cancer Register has contributed to cancer. The government's proposal implies the establishment of a mandatory personally identifiable register consisting of a basic register and associated quality records. A minority of the Health and Care Committee believes that a national register of cardiovascular diseases should be based on consent or right of reservation and established as a pseudonymous register. Patients with cardiovascular diseases are often so ill that they cannot give consent, and many die abruptly – before they reach treatment. Therefore, a consent-based cardiovascular registry will become incomplete and provide a poorer basis for assessing the occurrence and quality of treatment in healthcare. It is of major social importance that the information contained in the health records is consistent with the facts. The good quality of the register information is important for the purposes of the register and it is essential for the quality of the register that all patients with cardiovascular disease are included. Data gaps in registers could lead to a reduction in the useful value of the register. Such bias may, for example: lead to false conclusions and thus to a deterioration in patient safety. Incomplete registry information may also have implications for health care priorities if used as a basis for health care management and administration. A reservation system has not been established. No assessment has been made as to what the individual may be able to reserve for, or whether it should be possible to make a full or partial reservation. It would be unfortunate to introduce reservation rights without assessing the impact this would have on each registry. I believe that there is reason to consider the right of reservation in more detail. We will do this as part of the National Health Register Project and, if appropriate, follow up on the work of a regulation for the national register of cardiovascular diseases. In the case of pseudonymisation, the main issue is whether the birth number of the data subjects should be pseudonymised by a trusted third party or whether it is sufficient that the person responsible for the register itself encrypts that information. Following the government’s assessment, the encryption of the birth number should be carried out by the person responsible for the register – this being because it will facilitate the quality assurance of the data in the register and allow the return of the data to the person who has reported it if necessary. It is not right that the Government does not have an opinion on privacy. But we believe that the proposal for encryption is well taken care of. I therefore believe that the Government's proposal well meets the needs of society both for a national register and for the privacy of data subjects. I would like to stress that the register is to be subject to strict rules and that good technical and physical solutions are to be established to ensure that information is not compromised. The second provision of the Stortinget deals with today is a new provision of the Health Personnel Act. This provision allows the Ministry to decide that health information — i.e. information collected by health professionals in the provision of health care – may be used for quality assurance, administration, planning or management of the service. It shall apply without prejudice to professional secrecy and without the consent of the individual. It is my opinion that the new provision of the Health Care Professional Act well balances the consideration of the patient’s right to data protection and the need for healthcare to use such information for quality assurance purposes, administration, management or planning of healthcare. The information will only be available to a small number of people, and they will be bound by professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1267	Both the Council of State and the undersigned have education and experience in the field of EDB. We know that in the Norwegian health care system we have a number of proprietary solutions, with a lot of different interfaces and an innumerable amount of what we can call home sensitive communication solutions. How does the Council of State feel that the man in the street can be sure to control his personal health information so that his integrity and self-determination are maintained – based on this backcloth and on the present proposal for a structure around a new heart and registry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1274	The fact that this matter is being debated in Stortinget shows in itself that it is a democratic process – a democratic handling of the matter. I think it is important that, when adopting such an important matter, we look closely at what is the purpose of the register and what is the framework here. It lies in the proposition that has now been promoted. Then it is the process of the Storting and the final decision of the Storting that determines whether this register is established after the leadership of the Proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1281	According to the logic that the Council of State has now put forward, the Stortinge may decide anything. As long as it's adopted in the Storting, privacy is protected! It should not reassure patients who are now dependent on the extent to which this Council of State is concerned with privacy. I would also like to clarify a manifest misunderstanding: the Council of State says that there is a majority in the Committee that is in favour of establishing this register. It's not. There is a unanimous committee in favour of the establishment of the register. Disagreements concern privacy considerations. The right of reservation is proposed. Despite this, the file rapporteur, Tove Karoline Knutsen, writes in the VG: ‘In other words, those who do not see fit to enter such a register will be able to release it.’ This contrasts with what the Council of State said, and what is also on the Ministry's websites, where she directly argues against a right of reservation. The question of reservation rights is absolutely crucial. Will the Council of State ensure that that question comes back to Stortinget when the matter is settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1297	We've been very clear on that point of reservation; it's something you'll get back to. But we want an investigation on that, both to look at how the right of reservation is to be respected and what is to be reserved for. So I'll refer to the proposition, which also refers to e.g. Reservation rights in Sweden, where it appears that there is a very small proportion of people who consent to reservation rights. But that's not in itself a reason not to have it. When we say this is to be investigated, we're just going to do it to go into it more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1304	I am also pleased that the entire committee is behind the establishment of a cardiovascular registry. My question is whether the Government agrees that the opposition parties' proposals for privacy measures actually provide better privacy than the Government's proposals, which the Government itself says means a good level of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1309	There are two different types of registers on which the opposition and the majority of the committee are based. When we believe it is right in this case to have a person-identifiable register, it is for the sake of the register, for quality reasons and for how this could be used in the future – which we believe is important. At the same time, we believe that privacy concerns can be addressed in the same way as if this had been a pseudonymized register. It requires a very strong focus on how to organise the register, how to set up encryption, and how to set up security measures in relation to the register, which is given great attention also in the proposal, and which of course we should follow up. It is not that privacy is something that is of particular interest to anyone. It's actually also important for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1316	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1321	The establishment of a central heart and heart registry is an important contribution to a major ICT strategy that has now been initiated by the Government. We have more health records in Norway today that serve as a basis for health monitoring, quality improvement and research. Over a decade, national ICT interventions have been carried out in the health sector. We have achieved results, but many point out that the registers are incomplete, fragmented and not up-to-date. Interaction between institutions and businesses is too poor. This could result in mistreatment, improper use of resources and important health policy decisions being taken without sufficient knowledge. Patient journal systems are not adapted to the need for data reporting, and much of the reporting continues on paper. The Ministry of Health and Health sent out proposals for strategy and action plan for the modernisation of national health registers before Christmas. The strategy is based on existing national health registers and the work already started on developing common technological solutions and establishing several national registers. Effective use of the same data for several purposes and clearer national management shall be guiding principles throughout the strategy period. Privacy shall be focused and safeguarded in the modernisation of the health records. The ICT Strategy proposal proposes two main actions: common registers as an organisational model, national model of the best technological solutions The technology that gives us the best opportunities for national health interaction is also a suitable tool to provide greater protection for personal data – and far better than what has been common so far, with paper-based health information standing in more or less secure archives. I would also like to point out what the Council of State clearly says, that the right to reserve is to be investigated, and that we will thus have the necessary basis for making decisions later. There must be a target for the existence of common registers covering all disease groups and treatment modalities. In the longer term, it is necessary to focus on electronic reporting to all health records. We need a common framework for the organisation, lawmaking, technology and funding of national health registers. The government has in St.meld. No 47 for 2008–2009 Interaction reform: a broad analysis of the challenges facing the health sector in the future related to the good use of ICT, including: proposals for drawing up and implementing national nuclear records become important. Finally, I would like to join the rapporteur's emphasis on the importance this register will have for both a large group of patients and for the general work to achieve better and more modern ICT solutions in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1350	The representative Skei Grande said something that was very important, namely that the computer technology we have available today can give us unprecedented opportunities to collect data and thus improve the health sector, but at the same time it can also provide us with a great opportunity to protect the data and maintain privacy much better than what we have done in the past, when everything happened via paper records or paper registers. That's exactly what the government is doing right now, and that's in the proposal to use encryption. Encryption means that the personal identification data is unreadable. These shall be completely separate from the general data and a specific authorisation, authorisation, shall be required to enter these data. And that should be strictly grounds for duty. If someone is illegally trying to access this data, you have the opportunity to trace and reveal whether someone has tried it. So we have a lot better chance today than we've ever had of protecting person-identifying and sensitive data, and that's what it's adding up here. I'm not quite sure if I understand the opposition's proposal on the pseudonym register. The original reason for a pseudonym register was that you couldn't trace identity. You were anonymous. Now it is proposed a change in the law that allows you to access personal data via bypasses, via third parties, but in other ways and, as I see it, much more bureaucratic and resource-intensive way. I am also not sure that it displays or ensures the personal data in a better way. On the contrary, much more is involved in handling this information than is the case in the Government’s proposal. We have internal encryption technology and legal tools that can secure this information. In Sweden, this system has been in place, in Denmark and Finland likeness, for many years, some since the 1970s and 1980s. The point is not whether they are a legal entity or not, but that there are consent-based personal identifiers where one has internal encryption done by the institution similar to our Public Health Institute. There have been no problems with personal data leaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1361	It is clearly a major issue for privacy that the government here chooses to move forward in such a way that one does not take the fundamental discussions before a policy is implemented, but believes that one can take those discussions afterwards, for example. when the accident has already occurred. It is a very unwise way to handle this matter. I show you, among other things, to the Commission’s recommendations relating thereto. Privacy is not ICT security. Privacy includes: the exercise of individual rights relating to the ownership of basic information about themselves and the manner in which that information is used by others. These are completely different issues than whether you have secure ICT systems or not. I would like to repeat the question to the Council of State about reservation rights. Reservation law is an important fundamental issue that should be resolved in the Storting and not by the bureaucracy, to which the Government has submitted here, or by the Government alone. So the question is repeated: does the government plan that the Storting should decide on the first principle of reservation law, which the government fraction is not even willing to decide, but simply says that it should be assessed, and, not least, the question of what the right of reservation should contain, which was also the subject of the State Council's intervention? This is essential and is a matter which should be referred to the Stortinget. There are decisions that should not be taken by the Government alone. I would once again ask the State Council to answer whether the right of reservation is a question that comes back to Stortinget, or does the red-green government intend to deal with that question alone, without the insight through Storting's business? The registers in Denmark and Sweden are quite different from the registers proposed here. That is why, as the rapporteur does, it is not possible to use it as an argument for this type of register and to say that we are coming for our neighbouring country. The draft consultation document related to these registers also argues that information has not been diverted, there are no bad examples to be cited. The case rapporteur was also involved in his contribution when it came to Sweden and Denmark. It's best to ignore the fact. If one looks at the control activities of the Data Protection Authority, one will, for example: could find that researchers at NTNU have had thousands of patient records lying on a hard drive in the back of their car. Important personal information can thus easily be diverted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1378	When the government says that we should make an assessment of this with the right of reservation – it has not yet been determined – it is because we should do that job with regard to this special register. We do not intend to return to Stortinget in this context with this register. But if it becomes a general matter, we will of course be able to put it before the Storting in more extensive matters. But there is no problem to make the Storting aware of how this work is going, in a suitable way. So I think it's worth stressing once again that it's not that it's just the Right or the Opposition in the Committee that's concerned with privacy. It's also the government's busy. But if one disagrees with the register, it is not that one is not concerned with privacy, while the other is concerned with privacy. We are concerned about privacy, but we believe that the register form we have chosen and that the case-rapporteur has also gone through: in the case of encryption and in the case of restrictions on access to sensitive health information, which is particularly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1385	The representative, Bent Höie, was concerned that there were examples of leaking person-sensitive information, by the fact that someone had had journals lying down and hanging in a car. It wasn't the kind of lick I was talking about before. It is totally unacceptable and a breach of professional secrecy, which regulates the right of healthcare professionals to disclose health information. Healthcare professionals and researchers are bound by professional secrecy. If they do not comply with that obligation, it is a criminal offence. We have to assume that everyone who handles health information complies with the obligation of professional secrecy. Of course, if it doesn't happen, there has to be reactions. But if we are to have a health care system that treats people, we know that we need a health care system of doctors and nurses who are on sensitive information. It's not possible to treat people if that's not going to happen. But then we have to have a regulatory framework that strictly respects the obligation of professional secrecy. What we're talking about now is whether we have a legal code and technological solutions that can preserve this kind of register we're talking about today. We believe that we should be able to do very well with the proposal contained in the proposition. However, those who have access to the information must also comply strictly with their obligation of professional secrecy. If they break it, they have broken the law, and then there will also be reactions to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1390	The representative, Bent Höie, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1393	It is quite obvious that the Council of State believes that it is not a problem that the right of reservation issue does not come back to Stortinget. But the Great Britain's very large minority believes that it is a very big problem that such an important question does not come to the Grand Storting in principle. It is not least important that the question of what the right of reservation should contain comes to the Stortinget. It also has a major impact on the rights of individuals in such a fundamental case. So I will again ask the Government to reconsider and assess whether it is not right that the Storting should deal with that kind of question. So to case-rapporteur Tove Karoline Knutsen's posts: If I had been able to put myself in confidence in the evening and believe that all the thousands of people who work in health care, who want to have a hold on such information through research projects, would not make any mistakes, either by suggestion, by slums or simply by accident, I could sleep well at night. But when I don't trust it, you're dependent on systems, and that's what the opposition here suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1400	I just want to give feedback to the Council of State that, of course, all parties in this room are concerned with privacy. But many heavy authorities who have spoken out on this matter have, of course, said knowingly that the proposal of the opposition parties on pseudonymous records will ensure the safety of patients in the best possible way. There's one of the big controversies in this case. Then I must say that I fully agree with the representative Bent Höie on this with the right of reservation or consent. It's actually been one of the big contradictions in this case. It is also a wish on the part of the Christian People's Party to get back a case to the Stortinget on the right of reservation and the content of the right of reservation. Because it also has great significance for patients and not least for us who are legislative authorities in this country. Since this has been such a big issue for the opposition parties, it could give greater security to this matter in the future if we get it back and contribute in our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1407	Just a brief explanation: there have been 64 hearing bodies in this case. It has been said today that most of these go against the proposals of the Government. That's not right. Most support the Government's proposal, including in the use of internal encryption of personal identifiers. There's someone who's going to go against it. Some people want a pseudonymous register. But the overwhelming majority supports a register that is internally encrypted, as it stands in the proposition. - Just for briefing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1412	Now the case rapporteur underlined the first thing I wanted to stress. It is that all the hearing bodies want the register and that a majority of them support the form of the register. To the representative Davøy: In this case with consent, I said that it was difficult with such a register because many were so sick that you could not require consent to be on the register. Therefore, it was also decided that it should not be based on consent. As far as booking rights are concerned, I have also said that this is something that we will consider. It's also a big question: what should you reserve yourself against, and in what way. So we're going to do a more thorough job on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1421	Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1424	I agree with the Council of State that this right of reservation is a big question. It's actually such a big question that we from the opposition parties want to get it back to Stortinget. It's our business, and I think it's strange -- and I use a very mild expression -- that it can't happen in such a big question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1430	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1446	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1464	Never before has a government demanded more tolls than it has. Annual payments increased between 2005 and 2009 with a red-green government. The number of new toll financing projects also increased sharply. Oslopackak 3 is a package and a separate size, in which 42 of 54 billion kroner are to be covered with tolls. All the other projects adopted here in Stortinget in the period 2005-2009, c. 30 in total, represents a total investment of NOK 36,5 billion, where 70 pst, i.e. NOK 25 billion, is to be covered by tolls, and where the drivers will also pay NOK 10 billion in interest and collection costs. In the national transport plan for the period 2010–2019, which was adopted last year, the government parties are notifying another DKK 60 billion in new tolls. With the addition of interest and collection, that bill will total 75 billion kroner. It is also the case that this government has extended the use of tolls. Both investment in public transport infrastructure and the operation of public transport can be covered and tolls used for this purpose. In Oslopackakt 3, operating grants for collectives will amount to 10, almost 11 billion kroner. Of the other projects from the previous period, 6 out of 36 billion go for purposes other than roads. As if that were not enough, the government is eagerly pressing for additional tolls to be introduced in the rush. The most hostile government party, SV, would like to use tolls from the drivers for railway construction and for railway operations. This is extra tax to keep it going! There are extra taxes from batches that promised to keep the level of taxation unchanged from 2004 but that have demanded and will require more additional transport taxes from users. The reason is that the state does not have enough money, and for reasons of the sacred budget balance, the exchange rate and the interest rate, no more money can be spent. Another reason is that project acceleration is by local initiative and that tolls are used to reduce waiting time on the road, and that this waiting time has increased during this government. The argument about local initiative is, in fact, political extortion: no toll – no way, is the slogan of the Government. This government has developed and expanded the use of political extortion to build infrastructure in Norway. The inhabitants are never asked. That is why the Progress Party has recently put forward proposals to extend the use of binding referendums. The proposal is under consideration in the Municipal Committee. Nor is it necessary to purchase roads for hire through the use of toll financing. Norway has enough money. The oil fund is $2,640 billion. The Financial tool is also not missing. It is the political will to use financial tools that are lacking – the will to link Norwegian wealth with investment in Norwegian infrastructure. Of course, the use of private building and financing is good, but only as long as the government covers the bill. There is every reason to ask questions about the lack of reform and innovation in how to manage our resources. Norway is lagging behind in terms of investment in its infrastructure, in particular in the road and rail sectors. More and more people find it pointless that Norway — of all countries — has come into such a situation. The reason is not just in priorities. The reason is also due to a system error. The State budget deals with investments that will generate value and growth for 50 years in the future, as well as consumption alone. Whether the country builds its road or spends its money in 12 months, it is prioritised within the same framework and in the same budgetary system. Although investment is also saving, a system where a crown eaten is also a penny saved. Socio-economic benefits are considered based on 25 years of life, but in other countries they are used for both 40, 50 and 60 years. The Progress Party therefore supports – in another case to be considered this week – proposals to extend that time perspective for up to 50 years. The financial crisis of our time led to the collapse of our roads. More and more people realize that we cannot have it either. The country's infrastructure, which will carry welfare and value creation for generations to come, cannot depend on long-term or short-term economic crises in order to be upgraded. More than me have probably seen and read the chronicles of former government councillor Matz Sandman in the newspaper on March 16th this year. I have allowed myself to use some of his formulations. On 8 December 2008, I challenged the Minister of Transport at that time on a similar issue. The short version was: Will the Government implement new tools? Let me give you some taste buds from the answer, first: ‘I have concluded that toll financing has received a large amount.’ So, let's do this. ‘OPS is therefore a means of payment’. Finally, it is good if the Minister of Transport is changing his or her perception about that. I'm thinking about the look-up in today's Evening Post. Then back to the last Minister of Transport, from December 8, 2008: «The party has come up with many creative suggestions. There have been fund solutions, foreign budgets, OPS, government loans and conversion of transport rates into government enterprises that can raise loans.» She finally said, ‘It is tempting to quote the slogan of the store chain REMA 1000: ‘The simple is often the best.’ It is gratifying to see that this Minister for Transport seems to be moving a little bit more than the previous one, but it is true that it is this government's financing of road construction that is too simple. It's neither good nor good! The government’s financing of road construction imposes a completely unnecessary and increasing transport tax on the drivers. In any case, the previous Minister of Transport had perceived the Progress Party's solution: using the earmarked returns from parts of the oil fund, transforming offices into state enterprises that can raise loans, change budgetary practices, project financing, as used when we built new main airfield. It's a tool that keeps track of the economy, and it doesn't drive up either the rate of interest or the rate of interest. There are tools that allow Norway to renew, renovate and modernise road networks and rail networks faster and cheaper than the simple, old-fashioned and inadequate tools of the Government. There are tools that link Norwegian wealth, located in securities abroad, with the need for investment in Norwegian infrastructure. There are tools that ensure clear, long-term and predictable financing of Norwegian roads — with no more money in tolls. Modern, safe and energy-efficient roads provide Norway with competitiveness instead of distance-disadvantage. Modern, safe and energy-efficient roads dampen the pressure of the economy. Modern, safe and energy-efficient roads are a foundation for enhanced value creation across the country. Of course, they can be built without more tolls. With the course we have now, the policy we have now, it can take 50–70 years for Norway to have effective, safe and environmentally friendly roads. Many municipalities and counties are frustrated by the press to accept the use of tolls in order to get better roads than the government is willing to through its budgets. At the same time, the oil fund is increasing. The question is then: will the Council of State ensure that new funding measures are put in place, so that the drivers can drop tolls and, above all, drop more tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1531	As the interpellant himself is aware, the scope of alternative forms of funding varies considerably between transport sectors to ordinary government licenses. Today, user payments in various forms make the most important addition to government promises. User payments are lower for the railway, with a few exceptions not paid for the use of infrastructure. This means mainly funding from government budgets. Aviation represents the other extreme. No State contribution will be made to the investment and operation of infrastructure, with the exception of the benefit of a free-of-charge sale. The airport charges from the four largest airports finance both its own costs and losses at the other airports through a co-financing system. In maritime transport, too, a significant part of the financing is made through user-payment of the infrastructure in ports. The same is true of the work of the Coastal Works. When it comes to financing road infrastructure, which the interpellant specifically addresses, the Government has increased the government's promises. In the 2009 government budget, the proceeds were increased by DKK 1.6 billion from 2008, or about 10 pst. The government budget for 2010 continues to increase the proceeds for road purposes by a total of NOK 2,6 billion from 2009, or about 23 pst. The amount of user payment, that is tolls, has also increased, gradually and over time. The level is in the national transport plan notification 2010–2019, estimated at approximately €60 billion during the planning period. As the Government has done well in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, this is a conscious strategy to make the most of the revenue potential of road users, where there is local political will to do so, and thus provide the basis for further increased activity in the road sector. There are major unsolved challenges on behalf of today. Among other things, we must: Manage a large maintenance drop. The government has therefore considered it right to facilitate the increased use of toll financing where there is interest in it. Toll financing shall always be based on local initiative and local policy decisions. Several projects can be so scrambled in time, for some are tolls determining for realization at all. It is important to bear in mind that toll projects are often supported by businesses that are concerned with developing infrastructure solutions faster than would be possible through normal government budget licensing. Although it may be undesirable to reduce the level of toll financing from an efficiency point of view, this will create major financial problems. The social impact of a lower level of investment, operation and infrastructure maintenance will, in my view, be of little value. I therefore assume that tolls will be an important contribution to financing investment projects in the road sector for many years to come. The initiative proposed by the Government in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, to which the Stortinget has joined, represents a shift in road policy. They increase the scope, along with a more extensive use of tolls in areas where it is available, will mean a prolonged renewal of road infrastructure. Increasing frames are expected to be phased in gradually. The 2010 budget represents a first important step in such a escalation. The progress party likes to represent itself as a strong opponent of tolls. I still mean that the use of tolls in Norway is well incorporated. It is a form of general and general political acceptance for this form of funding, both local and national. The Progress Party has also voiced toll projects at local level. This broad grubbing-up is a separate reason not to re-evaluate toll financing as a financing principle for infrastructure in the road sector. However, the arrangements for the use of tolls are different, and I will – as the Government has always been busy – continuously assess the extent and arrangements of the use of tolls. Now the very principle of tolls has been so long that we also see the experience of the first and important projects. Runnfast started early. I think a few Finns today disagree that it was right then to finance Rennfast as it was done – that is, this connection that binds the West better together in Rogaland, with tunnels from Randaberg and over to Rennesøy. In November of this year, when they are celebrating that their projects have been disbursed, they will probably also return to the debate that was held in 1992 and rejoice at the joy that this tunnel has brought over a long period of time, the emergence of the tunnel, the road safety that this tunnel has gradually provided, and the cost to the industry that has been spared. I have recently registered the same thing on Finnøy in Rogaland with Finnfast. It's an example of a project that would have been difficult to finance only with government funds. They rarely pay a high rate to have their mainland project extended. They notice everything now in the few months that the tunnel has been open, a clearly positive trend both in terms of population and industrial development. Then we are now fully engaged in rolling out today's transport plan, a work that will serve as the basis for a big-time announcement in spring 2013. Let me say: Of course, I now have a full focus on phasing in and using the funds that are already in today's transport plan. It's stuck. At the same time, we should facilitate the new wholesale communication in 2013. I focus on a wide and open process. Tomorrow I'll meet the county spokesmen to discuss the arrangements for working with them. I'm going to have a meeting at the Transport and Logistics Forum, which I am renting. Etats have announced more meetings with different actors in the business community. I'm also going to invite myself to both LO, NHO, representatives of other organisations and different economic environments to get a recording of how we can get the most possible way and path for the money in the next part of the National Transport Plan. Let me also say, as I was directly challenged on OPS cooperation: it is such that the three projects that have been there have been evaluated. I thought we should go even more thoroughly through the experience that has been gained, but the experience so far is not that this OPS work has cost higher than lower costs. Perhaps it's the case that progress has been faster. Similarly, the Government has now arranged for three projects on its own posts in the State budget, two road projects and one railway project. If I finally wanted to say something more, it would have to be that tolls are going to be an important supplement for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1563	Thank you for the answer, which is essentially, as I see it, addressing today's system and to a small extent what is the question of the interpelation, namely new funding tools. I perceive that the Council of State essentially defends and explains a comprehensive toll usage that it has a broad local anchoring. It is at best a question that can be challenged, including: on the basis of the fact that no direct question is asked of the inhabitants of any of the municipalities concerned. I would like to challenge the scale, whether the current Minister for Transport agrees with the previous one of what was said in December 2008, ‘I agree that toll financing has received a large amount’, and whether one is satisfied with it. The follow-up question is: Is this necessary? That's what I tried to light up in my main post. Is this necessary when Norway is financially richer than ever before? We're getting financially richer and richer every year, we can be happy about it. But at the same time, we need to rust up, modernise and streamline our own infrastructure. Then we come to the new funding tools: how can we connect financial wealth with the need to invest in infrastructure? The response from the Council of State is largely about going a few rounds within the existing system, where everything is treated as if it were of 12 months' duration, when we are talking about, is building roads and railways that last for 40–50–60–70–80–90 years. We deal with the use of money for investments in infrastructure that will provide value creation for decades to come, just as we treat expenditure that has been used up and eaten up for 12 months. That's where we need to get a new funding tool. Then I hear the Council of State finally talk about the new round of rolling at the next new level. In the last rolling round, before the current 2010–2019 plan came into place, there were a lot of recordings. And there were also recordings from some of the parties that were mentioned here, LO and NHO. Reference was made to the need for new funding tools. But as in the hearing rounds with government and government parties, you obviously hear what you want to hear. Both from LO and NHO, a strong call has been made to change the budgetary system, to use a government loan scheme, to look at project financing to a much greater extent. Time doesn't allow to give more examples, but they're there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1574	I'll try to answer the questions in turn and orderly, for the first thing if I agree with the previous Minister of Transport that the amount of tolls is large. That's the answer, yes, it's a big deal. I am pleased that this is local initiative and local willingness for this to be even greater. I myself live in an area where I've seen what Rogaland has got out of different toll projects, and how one of them got tied up better together. There are still more projects, but both many individuals and a lot of businesses say that they like to be more interested if they are only strengthened. I thought it was worth listening to. There has been a strong increase in public funds here, and they will be strengthened further. We have a very ambitious national transport plan to follow up. Last Friday, we sent ten new draft evaluations in the order. That means ten new long distances to get closer, and it's going to get more. It's not the most important thing if we here provide for more OPS projects, or for other types of funding. The most important thing is that this is money at the disposal. That's what's happening now. There have been an increasing number of also public crowns – heavy percentages that I just referred to: 10 pst. from one year to another, 23 pst. Up there again. My question is, when we are going to roll this plan, to present a new big message in 2013, are we still going to bet on these two main sources of funding, i.e. government funds and tolls? Maybe so. But there are also contributions to other funding methods that I think we should discuss before submitting the message. That's why I have an open and listening handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1583	We have now started on the first year of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019. This is a plan to modernise our transport system and to ensure efficient and, not least, safe water, air, road and road traffic. In the national transport plan, there is an historic state investment. In addition, it is planned to take out the toll potential. Tolls as part of the financing before the transport sector have long and good experience in this country. Most toll projects are financed partly by public funds and partly by the funds that enter the toll stations. In recent years, both toll revenue and government fees have increased. I come from a district where we are surrounded by toll projects on many edges, a great western district characterized by islands, deep and long fjords and sometimes tall mountains. The E39 triangle has a continental connection for 30,000 islanders and the inherent removal of four ferry routes. Without tolls such as sub-financing, this project had not been implemented. The toll rate is lower than the ferry rate, and in a few years' time we run free on the route. At E134, once Åkrafjorden and Rullestadstevet were horror routes that all road users resorted to pass anytime of the year. The same thing applies to E39 over Stord. This could have engulfed a number of roadside improvements that have made life easier and, not least, safer to live for people in general and perhaps especially for business. What characterises these toll-funded projects is also not that there are rough luxury roads. There are safe, easily accessible highways with yellow middle stripe, cork more or less. For this reason, it has also been widely recognised in these projects, both locally and regionally, that road users themselves would contribute directly to the financing by having tolls as part of it. In most capitals, the business community has gone to the fore to get through these solutions. More and better roads faster have been driving. In my homelands, there seemed not to have been such a great disparity in party politics in eagerness to support toll collection in order to realize an important road project. Municipalities with spokesmen from the Progress Party – Askøy, Os and Austevoll – all have our active in this way. This is part of building the country. In any case, we in the West have seen that this kind of work must be done. Here in Austland, there are also several examples of the same thing. Interpellanten Sortevik's own party, the Progress Party, has, as I understand it, been the propellor and voice for tolls locally, among others. by the country's largest toll package, Oslopackak 3. The oil fund is interlinked as an alternative source of funding for road investment. The progress game is the game that usually suggests more money for most. It's been a long time since this party. If they had managed and had multiples in the last 15–20 years, it is very likely that we had no oil fund today. Nor could we have had an increase in the national transport plan of DKK 100 billion for the coming period. The use of tolls as a sub-funding source for road projects must be local and regional anchoring. The working party will support applications with local support. It's not like I love tolls, but it's a fact that some of the projects that have been realized because of tolls have given me both time and opportunities to love more. And it's love that the state alone has not been able to make right. That is why I have largely paid my tolls with joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1602	It was good, then, that we did not spend them overnight – NOK 2,640 billion! There are many opportunities and ways to go when a country, based on its geographical location, is given opportunities for huge revenues and with this manage large national revenues that we have through oil and gas production, revenues that should benefit business and our citizens effectively through, among other things. ensuring effective roads. Many countries, including our neighbouring countries, which do not have large revenues from oil and gas, are able to manage their state revenues in such a way that citizens are not exposed to a large amount of fiscal taxes, taxes and tolls. Do we want to look a little further than our neighboring countries, such as the United States? Albania, Poland and Hungary, which have a completely different economic position from Norway, is in fact able to implement the development of motorways and other roads without using toll financing. So our neighbouring countries are able in a far more efficient and safe way to develop their infrastructure, including the road – I don't know if I'm going to say in spite, or if I'm going to say because they don't have much extra revenue from oil and gas production. Then it is surprising that the extra income of Norway as a country has actually resulted in too many people becoming both tailor-made economists and Uncle Screws who are trying to save money almost everywhere and implement regimes where others – and in this case the drivers – pay the bill. We know that the large majority in this Chamber want to receive toll financing. It not only has an economic impact on the individual driver, it is also crucial to powder political responsibility. In other words, you don't want a kid to place political responsibility on. The driver is today a dairy cow for the state. The country’s total car-related revenues in 2010 are DKK 60 billion. In addition to this, there are tolls. In the last period at Stortinget, more than 30 toll financing cases were dealt with. Total covered by this Decision for the collection of more than DKK 25 billion. We know that this will escalate violently in this period. In the adopted NTP, government parties claim that they are to carry out a bet on the road of approx. NOK 219 billion. The total revenue generated by the State through taxes and tolls is in the same period of approx. 700 billion kroner. In other words, the drivers finance the roads three and a half times during the period. Nevertheless, the government – I would say – has the gift of fear and says that this is a great initiative. So it's not a government that makes a bet, it's actually the drivers that finance this, three and a half times. The use of tolls for financing is expensive. Politicians at local and county level become hostages in every road cause, because the aftermath is so great, and the desire to give their own inhabitants a good path is very great. The use of tolls is unbelievably out of place socially and randomly, causing many large expenditures. The use of tolls in the world’s richest country testifies to politicians’ long, long - standing emergency. Then it is claimed from this pulpit that you have good experience with tolls. I would say, you shouldn't use words like ‘responsible’, ‘decisive’ and ‘responsive’ from this pulp, because it's actually the drivers that have been pushed over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1625	It is almost predictable that there will be little debate in Stortinget about the toll usage, because there are many parties in Stortinget that are eager followers of just using tolls. The government can use fund returns, can use government loans, can use project finance, can change the budgetary system, as many economists are calling for, to ensure state financing of road construction, but will not. Magnus Lagbøte made road standard in the Law of 1274. Unfortunately, Norway no longer has a clear and compliant road standard. The same Magnus Lagbøde introduced in the same law an obligation to ensure road maintenance. Unfortunately, this government has developed, expanded and increased a new road requirement: tolls for all users. There will be more on this issue in an interpellation debate tomorrow, then with the Minister of Finance who is taking part. But I fear that Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen is far more reprehensible for using modern financing tools than Sigbjørn Johnsen was as a county manager. Today, the Minister of Transport of the evening post says that she wants to ‘snow stones’ to get more money on the road and the railway. The name of the largest stone is the Ministry of Finance, and the boss is here tomorrow. In the small debate that has taken place, I have heard both the Minister for Transport and the representative Rommetveit from the Workers' Party boast of the good experience of building important toll projects. Let me then, for sure, stress that all of the over 30 projects dealt with here in Stortingen in the previous period were good projects and also supported by the Progress Party, but with a different funding. The drivers experience the effect of buying roads on payment is that they are expensive. So let me just end up with a little number, because I had some numbers initially. Between 1990 and 2007, that's what I've got some good figures on, 46 billion kroner have been paid in tolls to build important projects. But 15 billion of those 46 have agreed to pay the repayment costs. It is expensive to force the drivers to buy the road on payment. It is also completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1640	I'm taking a distance from the Progress Part's calculation piece. I also distance myself from parts of their vocabulary, e.g. the use of the word ‘gisler’ in this context. I should like the Progress Party, rather than grudge over the funds that have come in this way, and that have been materialized in the way, to at least feel a bit happy that there is indeed a significant number of both businesses and communities who are delighted that they have had this opportunity to help get to a better path. In Finn Island they now pay without a discount NOK 750 on a road with a small truck. They pay the same other way. They pay 200 kroner each way for a small car. I don't think everyone does it with the same joy in the 'now'. But at the same time, they're happy that they're now involved in financing a tunnel that will give Finnøy great new opportunities, because there's no big complaint above the level. There are questions about reducing the tariffs, assuming that there are far more running than anyone had expected. When it comes to the Eiksund connection in More and Romsdal, they're counting on a down payment period of 15 years. It now seems to be paid in six years. It tells me people are running, people are in and out. Whenever it is with OPS that the main finding is at a higher or lower cost than traditional implementation, and that gains can be derived through changing contract strategies within a system of ordinary government budget promises, I see it as important during this period to contribute to new forms of contract. That's what they're trying to do, for example. in Helgeland and the development of E6 combined with operation and maintenance for 15 years. So I would like to thank you for a neat debate, if anything shorter than I had expected. I think I have a lot of people with me when I say that it would be ideal to allow all the means to cross the tax haven too, but we also have other tasks in this society to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1655	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1671	In the last year, and in particular recently, there has been considerable noise in the public debate – wild and tourist interests on the one hand and breeding interests on the other. The noise has been a matter of many aspects, but this is mainly a debate on whether the development of the farming industry in Norway is sustainable in relation to the administrative responsibility we have for the North Atlantic wild species. The arguments are strong, sometimes one-sided, sometimes little objective from both sides. Opinions and views from different parts of the government and authorities are moving in a dim direction and that is why this interpellation was sent to the Prime Minister. It is difficult to see who is the leading, strong political hand in this conflict. It seems that a firmer political view or governance may be necessary. As a result, we must not lose a reputation for one of our most important and growing export industries, nor must we neglect our administrative responsibility for salmon. To make decisions that are right for the future, we need evidence-based information – not too much information, whether from the actors themselves or from the authorities. On the part of the authorities, there are strong statements, including: in a lecture I was on in Trondheim for a while back, where representatives from the Directorate of Nature Management said that the majority of salmon populations in Norway are either eradicated, threatened, vulnerable or weak, and that the cause, among other things, is is salmonius and escaped farmed salmon. They said about escape, that this is far beyond the limit of sustainability, and about the lack of control of wild fish salmonid problems, and that Norwegian farming is currently not sustainable in a wild fish perspective. They also said that the element of escaped fish in the broodstock is far above the harmful level, and that it is alarming in terms of lice. They also said that we will not be able to take care of our responsibilities if the farming industry does not get its environmental impacts under control. These are strong statements, especially when we know that Norway has one third of the world's remaining population of North Atlantic wild breeds. But then we also know – we who are engaged in value creation – that the farming industry contributes to economic growth and employment along the coast with an export value of well over DKK 20 billion. Involved in a nutritional context, the Norwegian farming industry may produce almost three times as much salmon as there is meat production in agriculture. We also know that farming, unlike agriculture, is a non-subsidized industry, which is growing strongly and is actually profitable, at least for periods. Population growth and increased protein demand in the world are expected to increase rapidly in the need for farmed fish, as wild fish are globally limited by the fact that the strains are often heavily taxed or over-taxed. However, fish health is a major concern in the farming industry. The veterinary institute stated last summer that the development of parasites, faeces and disease outbreaks is not satisfactory and that new growth should not be allowed until a comprehensive control plan is in place. One of the measures favoured by the Veterinary Institute is proposals from the industry on set-aside between production cycles and the closed-ended transport of fish due to coastal contamination. The problem with such measures is that they are expensive, perhaps not feasible for all breeders and that organisations often do not have enough overall about them. There is no doubt that salmon farming may have a negative impact on wild salmon, but the impact is manifestly controversial and whether it is permanent or temporary. The effect consists of diseases, escapes and lice. The only thing that is certain in this debate is that it is a highly polarized debate. There are farmers who believe that the farming industry is a pure industrial production that may not affect the environment at all. On the other hand, there are nature protection organisations that believe that farmers are largely filling the fjords with poison, and are without control of anything. Such polarisation creates – at least it can create – a significant reputational problem for the farming industry, but also for the tourism industry and wild-fishing industries. Nor can the sense industries sell if people don't think they get real goods. Ruminant salmon may have a negative impact on wild breeds through changes in genes, and the wild species being watered out and genetically impaired survival over time. But neither do you agree on such an area and the trade unions give different signals. It's e.g. studies demonstrating that escaped salmon have low survival and die quickly in the sea, while other studies show that they have a high percentage of escaped salmon in the rivers and have a good survival capacity. Official statistics show that escape is falling, but it is also not possible to reconcile the different views on whether the statistics are correct and often question the authorities themselves. The industry has zero tolerance for escape, but it does not prevent it from taking place, partly because of equipment weaknesses and also because of human error. There is little doubt about the need to put an end to the run-up to industry, and that some of the same sanctioning mechanisms that industry has otherwise had to withstand for its emissions are likely to be used. Breeding provides an increased number of fish on which salmonids can multiply. As a result, the number of lice in the sea is increasing, which later affect the number of lice in the wild, and which may weaken populations. Here, too, there are different opinions of the learners. Where should the action levels be when there is an increasing number of farmed salmon? Could there be a difference between geographical zones? Should you differentiate if there are no salmon rivers nearby, etc.? From the autumn of 2009, there has been a significant increase in lice in farms in many places. That was one of the reasons why the agreed increase in biomass was halted. The reasons seem different. Multi-resistance to lice in some areas is probably the cause, and this is a serious threat to industry. If medicines do not work over time, lice will become a major fish health problem and will also cause other diseases, as one has seen in other countries, such as the United Kingdom. in Chile. A number of measures have been implemented in Norway in the short term. The question is whether it is sufficient and whether other and stronger measures need to be taken in the long term. As mentioned above, the set-aside of production zones has been promoted in the debate; it has also infected closed transport, as I mentioned. Research and development in this area may be the most important thing. This too is complicated as this is a fragmented industry with many different sizes of enterprises, without the same economic strength of many expensive measures. Raising salmon is an important food producing industry in Norway and is very important for export earnings. The fact that it is now exposed to significant noise and the risk of loss of reputation both nationally and internationally in terms of future sustainability is unsustainable. The current conflict between commercial interests based on farming on one side and tourism and wild fish on the other must be calmed down. This can only be done through changes in regulation – changes that must be based on fact making and free of special interest positions. Then I believe that first there is a need for knowledge, which is documented, about part of the issues I've been dealing with. Secondly, there is a need for a government and a political leadership that agrees with itself. With so many different actors, public regulation is required, which takes care of all interests. It requires the participation and cooperation of authorities, professionals, farming communities and wild fish interests. Some have to coordinate this work. I think it has to happen fairly quickly. There was this lack of coordination of knowledge, facts and actions I called for with this interference I addressed to the Prime Minister. He chose to give the staf stick to the Minister of Fisheries. I hope that means that it is she who will have the future responsibility, not only to respond here today, but to the responsibility that we will not continue to see a powdered responsibility and breaking action from different departments: the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, and not least their respective agencies. That's all the implicated parties now really waiting for. It's very important. In the first place, we're waiting as we stand here, with tension on the Council's answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1711	Both aquaculture and salmon tourism are important industries for District Norway. In the autumn of 2009, the Food Safety Authority reported high lice levels, so high that they were not compatible with environmental sustainability. That is why I postponed the announced increase in production capacity in 2010 in order to have time to assess the evolution of the salmon situation in greater detail. The last report of the Food Safety Authority of 15 March shows that the lice numbers in all regions are below the action levels, i.e. is lower than the maximum permitted by the authorities. Although the figures show a mainly positive trend, it will probably be a challenging spring for the industry. The legislation on the control of salmon fever was amended by August last year and the Food Safety Authority now has all the powers to impose measures on farmers. As far as escape is concerned, my message is simple: Breeding fish must be inside the mermaids and not outside. Although the reported escape figures in the last two years are the lowest in 15 years, I do not settle for that. There are clear indications that the actual escape figures are higher than the statistics show. The element of escaped farmed fish in the spawning grounds is a more real measure of the potential harmful effect. The different salmon populations are likely to have different tolerances and robustness, and appropriate parameters and indicators are used to measure their effects. The appropriations for the Directorate-General for Fisheries have increased by 10 million. kr in 2010. The funds shall be used for increased supervision of the aquaculture industry. In addition to the recent revision and improvement of the technical requirements for food-fishing facilities, work is under way to develop technical standards also for seed-fishing facilities and land-based facilities. This will help to reduce the likelihood of an escape accident. There is no coverage to say that the government is overstepping the trades, as someone has claimed. The decision on 5 pst. growth, which was taken early in the autumn of 2009, was based on a thorough review of the input of various professional bodies. Among these trades there were different perceptions of whether or not growth should be allowed. The fact that some colleges did not get full penetration does not mean that their views are not valued and given weight. But there's reason to remember that it was the input of the trade unions that was the basis for excluding some geographic areas from the capacity increase. With regard to the situation of wild birds, it is serious and its causes are multiple. To illustrate this complexity, I can point out that in 2009, ICES, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, considered that the North Atlantic salmon stocks are generally in good condition – according to a report ordered by NASCO, the North Atlantic Wildax Conservation Organisation. At the same time, estimates from the Directorate for Nature Management show that salmon ingested in Norway has been halved since 1980. I now want to describe some of the other factors that we know about, and what is being done to counteract these. In a historical perspective, acid rains and various watercourse interventions have eliminated or reduced the incidence of wildaxes in more than 50 rivers. In the last decades, significant improvements have been achieved in water quality in watercourses and coastal areas, among others. by extensive liming. Stricter environmental requirements for watercourse regulation over many years have led to much better consideration of wild fauna in a number of cases. The salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris came to Norway from Sweden in the 1970s to a land-based plant on Sunndalsøra. Since then, Gyrodactylus has been detected in 46 Norwegian watercourses. 16 of these are now freshly reported, and 5 are under review. Salmon fishing is a significant influence factor for the wild species. In Norway, sea fishing for salmon has been reduced from approx. 400,000 individuals early in the 1980s to under 100 000. In the same period, salmon estuaries have been stable on about 100,000 individuals. Scientific advice for salmon management has recommended reducing the tax to over 60 pst. of salmon stocks. Variations in the marine ecosystem also have a significant impact on the growth of wild fauna and thus marine survival. In St. prp. No 32 for 2006–2007 On the protection of wild fauna and flora and on the completion of national salmon and salmon fjords, a number of measures were put in place to reduce the threats to wild fauna and flora. Among the main measures is the establishment of 52 national salmon rivers and 29 national salmon fjords, which provide special protection for the main salmon populations in Norway. In these fjords and watercourses, new measures and activities which may damage the wild species are not permitted. The interpellant has asked whether there is a cause for concern about developments that may become unmanageable during the spring, and in that case what the Government will do to ensure the sustainable development of the breeding and salmon tourism industry while respecting the wild species. I want to make it clear that the Government wants to ensure both the wild species and the basis for salmon fishing and to facilitate further growth in the aquaculture industry within a sustainable framework. The salmoneturistic industry contributes to an annual local turnover of approx. One billion kroner. Of these, approx. 30 pst. Purchases of fishing rights. Many rightholders also operate farm tourism and offer package solutions with salmon fishing, guidance, food and accommodation. According to a report by the National Association of Travel Life Companies in cooperation with the Norwegian Forest Association, it is possible to increase the total turnover of salmon fishing from DKK 1 billion to well over DKK 2 billion each year. It is therefore important to ensure that enough salmon goes up into the rivers and that their salmon fish are caught. My predecessor presented the Government's strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry last April. The strategy addresses issues, sets objectives and clarifies what is needed to achieve the objectives. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department is pursuing measures to minimise the impact of the aquaculture industry on the environment. Of course, the marine industry itself is dependent on a clean sea to produce, but sustainability is also crucial to legitimising activities in the coastal zone and to obtain areas for production. It is not least the reputation and relation of the industry to consumers. In such a perspective, it is therefore inconceivably wise to take care of the wild. Where we see cause for concern, thank you. In the short term, we will look at developments in the salmon situation before we decide whether capacity growth will take place in 2010. In a slightly longer perspective, we are working on the follow-up and implementation of the strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry, as the government platform, also referred to as Soria Moria II, provides the basis for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1752	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that it would be immeasurably unwise not to take care of the wild. However, it will also be immeasurably unwise not to facilitate the avoidance of a reputational debate both nationally and internationally that could harm the farming industry. I'm not a protester for the wild fish industry. But as it has now evolved, I see that regardless of whether the salmon industry statistics are better, we are getting a problem that is suitable to worry about. I am not quite sure if I perceive that the Council of State is also concerned. I share her factual description. It's in many ways the same as I have in my interpellation. But there are a couple of issues that concern me especially. I don't think I said in my post that the government is overruning the trades – that's not the problem. The problem, as seen from the outside, is that the trade unions at the different levels in the different departments do not agree with each other. It clearly comes from both those who are breeders, who have fish in the merms, and those who stand in the rivers without getting any fish. That's the one. The other thing that I think is important is what the industry itself can do. I hear that the Council of State will be involved in this, perhaps in connection with regulations, both in the short term and perhaps in the long term. I think some of the problem here, with which the government can't do anything, but which nevertheless is a cross of thought, is that the industry is fragmented. So there are very big differences in the size of businesses in the industry, and there are different economic capacities – ranging from small businesses, with their interests, to the big ones, who may be able to look and see a little longer. Two of the themes that I addressed in my post, namely this with larger zones and set-aside, and possibly looking at regulations for transport methods that allow you to transport fish without infection, will cost money. But I think you have to be willing to also look at it in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1765	The interpellant states that the trade unions do not agree with each other. It's not very unusual. My experience is that there are two researchers, there are also two answers. The government's responsibility in this is to accept the professional advice given to us, to deal with them and to take action in the various areas. I have constitutional responsibility for the wild game related to the impact of the aquaculture industry. Then we're essentially talking about lice, and we're talking about escape. It's the industry's responsibility. I am discussing these challenges with the Food Authority at least monthly. What I mean is that the industry itself can do, as the interpellant asks about here, is just to engage in the good dialogue with the Food Authority, which I experience is very much looking for and very keen to find good solutions. Major zones and set-aside are of the themes that I know the Food Authority is particularly concerned about now. The interpellant is quite right that there are great variations in the possibilities to adapt to this. I've said that we have to put all the cloths to look at how one can solve this, because it's of course about those who are big, and who have many locations, being able to adapt more easily to large zones than those that are smaller, and that may have fewer locations. It is also my responsibility that the aquaculture industry should have good environmental locations, and I will, of course, contribute to that. There's also another discussion about this that's very important. It's, as the interpellant was involved in his first post, the importance of the industry as value creators, as an important factor for the settlement along the coast. There I think the industry can contribute more than it does today. There's actually more ways to grow than through size. But before they can grow, it is obvious that they need to address the issues that have been debated here today. I actually feel that there is a lot of will in the industry to do, and not least, as I said, I get feedback from the Food Agency, which is out on the brink, to say it literally. Then we have to be able to have a little bit longer thoughts in our head in parallel with that we're now implementing the short-term grips. These are things I want to discuss not least with the Food Authority, but also with the industry, because it's only the industry that can actually solve the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1778	The representative Fleet has taken up a very important matter in his interpellation. The farming industry is an extremely important coastal industry that contributes to high value creation, jobs and export incomes, while the wild caught interest preserves biodiversity, while the management of the wild game represents many jobs and income opportunities in our valleys, often where there may be meager opportunities. Therefore, it is not unnatural that conflicts of interest may arise. I think it is very important to have a knowledge-based approach to this issue as well. I have allowed myself to raise the question of whether the different environments can not sit down around a table to get into a dialogue. I think that can create mutual insight and understanding. And not least, I think it can contribute to a more nuanced sense of reality than the one that sometimes seems to be raw. Otherwise, I must say that I think the Council of State has balanced the advice of the various professional bodies in a wise way. On the basis of the interpellation, I understand your representative Fleet that it is only the Directorate of Natural Management that is to be taken into account. Let me say that the farming industry is going to operate in a sustainable way. And even though escape has been ripping in recent years, it's assumed that it's dark numbers. I agree with the Council of State that the farmed fish must be within the mermaids and not outside, and that the lice problems must and must be resolved. In the problem description, it is important that representatives of the administration speak out – for that they do – and that they speak wisely, i.e. the overall picture is taken into account when discussing a matter that affects almost the whole of our coast, highlighting in concrete terms which watercourses and areas have been destroyed or are at risk. If you do, it creates respect and trust. If the government doesn't do it, there's a lack of trust and respect. There is no doubt that the farming industry is in a way that is destructive to the wild species in many places in our country. However, there are several anthropogenic measures — including possibly other things — that have destroyed the wild species. Watercourse regulations, Gyrodactylus salaris, which are carried in from Sweden, acid rain and various interventions, as the Council of State did, have destroyed for the wild in more than 50 rivers. The food situation in the sea looks, as far as I understand, also to play a role. In many of these areas, more knowledge is needed. And even though there are now many things that have a negative influence on the wild species, such as escaped fish, salmon, etc., that the industry has to control, it is wrong to blame the farming industry for everything that has affected the wild species negatively in recent years. But I believe that the situation is such that it has to be taken seriously. I feel that both the industry and the authorities are doing it. Then the Council of State has explained concrete measures that have come from the authorities during the winter. There can be no doubt that the government is taking this very seriously. I wonder whether the Right can point to concrete measures that should have been taken by the Department on this matter and that have not been done. I hear that the leading spokesmen and women in the farming industry are crystal clear that the industry must clean up the mess that is still raging, so that it can become a sustainable industry that operates in a satisfactory way, and that the interests of the wild and farmed industries can exchange information and have an acceptable life – if it is not to be a happy marriage once in a while into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1797	First, I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant who has put this matter on the agenda, because it is an important matter. It is possible that the undersigned and the previous speaker in the pulpit have perceived the fleet a little different in terms of approaches, but as at least the undersigned understands both the post and the interpellation, it is more an invitation to how we can get better, so that these industries can live side by side – not that one industry should receive preference, but that we must try to live side by side. You point out something very important. The piece of reputation is probably more important than we've been taking over in the years that we've had behind us. I'll give you a few examples. It is clear that if we get a discussion in the media internationally about the image of this fish that part of us has seen, which is very lucid, there will not exactly be any sales promotions in our major markets – France, Germany, Russia, etc. – in the case of salmon and farmed salmon. Similarly, if the environmental activist Oddekalv gets through for his thing that the lice fluid we use can be harmful, it's not a good sales argument either. It may be as right or as wrong as it pleases, but if the receiver of the message perceives this as negative, and that it goes in the right direction, we as a nation have a problem. I have heard a lot of speeches from this pulpit in many contexts that it is the farming industry that should be what is “moving” after the oil ends – yes, today Norway exports, along with the wild fish industry, well 25 million meals per meal. day(s) We're a major player. But we must not forget that we have major challenges. The villa is important to take care of, but we must not go into the trap that some people – at least researchers – seem to be doing, that is, absolutely so, from their point of view. And then you're not interested in hearing what others bring out of information. When I look at some statements from some directorates, I might want Harald Eia to be able to create a series of programs related to the established truths in this field as well, and maybe go some things a little bit further into the seams. This is an important discussion, and I have to say the following: I haven't fasitized, I'm no expert either on Gyrodactylus salaris or on salmoncus, the little crustaceans that are naturally found in the sea. However, in some who debate, especially in some other forums, it seems that salmonnus is something the salmon industry has invented. It's not like that. Salmon leaves are naturally found in the sea. Then it's time for us to get out that very message. I want to talk about maybe doing something a little different. Perhaps the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and her department should be given a greater responsibility, a more comprehensive responsibility, so that more of what is involved in the sea and in the resources of the sea and in the rivers can just happen to that department, so that we can get a comprehensive policy and not a policy that is piecemeal and divided, which one can get the impression of when one sees some reports from various directorates – and at least when I hear the message from some of these directorates. There have not been many days since some of us turned on the TV and saw some news broadcasts and comments related to the status of the wild race – so maybe Harald Eia has a job to do. I want this debate, not to stop here, but to continue the debate. I wish the Stortinge could also take a greater part in this debate. The fact that the wild and farmed industries can live side by side is important. It's important to us as a nation, as a nature manager, and also as the one who's going to push this forward. I want to give the Council of State a challenge that I hope she can take. Now, beyond springtime, we're going to see what's going on in the fight against the salmon-puzzle – the debates related to the farming industry, related to the reputation, etc. – I could imagine that the Council of State accepts an invitation to come and give a statement on the state of the industry, with a subsequent debate, so that we show that we are actually involved in this and want to do something about it – and not least that the debate continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1820	The questions raised by the inter-pellant and the debate in public space clearly show that this is a complex issue with many actors and many opinions. So there's no easy and transparent terrain we're moving into right now. The management of the wild species has historically proved to be a difficult exercise. Despite the fact that sea salmon fishing has almost been phased out, despite the introduction of their own salmon fjords and despite increased efforts in both stock management and stock management, stocks are falling. So there's something out there that we haven't got hold of yet. Here, in my opinion, it should be possible to do more things. With regard to the problem of wild breeds versus breeding, I think we have a little bit of profit in simplifying the management system in the farming industry. I also think we have a lot to do in order to combine the management of the farmed salmon and the wild salmon, so try to see our coast and some of the stocks in the context of a slightly simpler bureaucratic device. There is also considerable competence in the North Atlantic salmon, in the farming industry and in the professional community, which can be useful in finding out how our seas stand. I call for a greater understanding of many people for holistic thinking, and that it must be possible to manage both green and commercial along our coast. It is said by the representative Haugen that the government is clear about these things, and he is asking what the Right believes is missing. It is also said by the Council of State that the trade unions should crack down in their opinions. From the right, it is a problem that the government cracks in its statements about what you think in this case. After all, the trade unions, under the auspices of the Minister for the Environment, are taking part in the political debate with such strong opinions on the state of affairs, and the statements by the trade unions go quite across what we hear from the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who are talking about industry and commercial matters. In fact, if you look at Norway from abroad and see a political administration that cracks so much, it may be that you have to tear down the sails and think a little about it. So the fact that we're fighting an internal battle for how we're going to have our coast is not the trick from the outside. In fact, I think that is regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1835	It is a very important question for the representative of the fleet. The breeding industry has become a major and important industry in a relatively short period of time. It has high export value and creates jobs in many parts of the country. At the same time, however, industry faces major environmental challenges. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the threat to wild salmon. Norway has a special responsibility for the North Atlantic wilderness, but many ask questions about whether we manage this responsibility properly and properly in our day. The pressure on the wild species has many reasons, but there is no doubt that the farming industry has a large part of the responsibility for the challenges of the wild species today. Both salmoneus and escaped farmed salmon damage the wild salmon strains. Many trade unions are now pointing out that the situation is very critical. Spaced farmed salmon, for example, have: led to genetic changes in several salmon strains. This is a situation where the breeding industry must take over. If the industry is unable to show environmental resilience, it would put the whole industry at risk. Many operators in the industry have realised this, and they argue for new and stronger measures against escape and against salmon. They realise that stricter regulation is needed, whether the industry is to survive. The situation is similar to what we had in the process industry a few years ago. Environmental requirements initially met with resistance, but they were implemented, and the industry came out strongly. All experience shows that environmental requirements lead to technological developments that not only improve the environment, it also strengthens production, and it enhances the quality of production. A sustainable environmental profile is important for all industries. This applies not least to the farming industry, which is entirely dependent on a good reputation because they work in a consumer market. Today, farming is facing challenges similar to those faced by the process industry some years ago. There is no solution other than to take the criticism over and deal with environmental problems. We have to create a viable nourishment. It is absolutely necessary to get legitimacy that can depend on having to work in a consumer market, which this industry depends more on than many other industries. Prognosis suggests that there may be little water in the river for spring. This can lead to a flowering of the lice problems. Therefore, it is important to keep this situation under review. But the most important thing is to arrive at regulations that ensure long-term resilience. Here it is important to listen to the professional environment and to the directorate. Otherwise I have to say that it is positive to the right that the representative fleet places such great emphasis on the Directorate of Nature Management. I expect that there will be a change of posture that will lead to him also paying great attention to the directorate and environmental management in all other matters that will be dealt with in Stortinget, and I look forward to that with great anticipation. Otherwise, it is interesting to note that there are different attitudes in the government in this matter. But today's debate in the Chamber has shown that there is at least an equal gap in the opposition in this matter, so a possible government project on that page would probably not have become so very collective in the matter we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1854	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to have this debate. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the answer she gave, which gave a good overview of the situation. At present, there is a strong focus on the farming and wild farming industry in Norway. It is important to be aware that different research environments have different views on the situation of the wild species. It shows, among other things: the application Focus on the NRK last week. From different levels, farming is under attack to be a major threat to the wild species in Norway. In the media, there is the impression of a crisis maximisation, and peak peaks are often about the threat of extinction of the wild. Often we also see statistical numbers that, when used differently, give different conclusions. We can't have a situation where the industries are being played against each other. Measures and requirements must be based on sound and knowledge-based management. The consequences of mismanagement of farmed salmon and wild salmon can be great and cause irreversible damage. It therefore means a great deal for Norway to take care of wild breeds, and that means a lot for its export income and coastal workplaces, as the aquaculture industry is also measured by how the industry affects the environment. Nearly one year ago – in April 2009 – the Government presented a strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has provided an overview of the status, measures taken, objectives and needs of new measures in five main areas where aquaculture affects the surrounding environment. During this winter, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has shown that they are following the situation in the industry closely and that they are able to take the necessary action when required. Governments have also shown that they follow the industry and the situation closely. The centre party is engaged in further development of both the seafood and salmon tourism industries. This will be resolved through dialogue and cooperation with the industries. We have to be precise in our definitions of what are the challenges. In this way, we can put in place concrete measures where necessary. Knowledge and experience must be at the bottom of decisions on the necessary measures. In this way, we will have forward-looking industries, where the players play along with the authorities, in order to be able to take care of the wild and develop both industries together. We politicians must trust that the facts and knowledge used by the administration are drawn from different professional environments in order to get the most accurate picture of the situation. Only in this way can we also put in place effective and forward-looking measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1876	The interpellant addresses a very important issue that has a significant impact on the future of wild fauna, farming and salmon tourism – important industries across our coast. I have the same desire as the representative Nesvik – that these industries can ‘live side by side’ in a sustainable way. The salmonitus situation deteriorated seriously in the autumn of 2009. The number of salmonnus tripled compared with the same period in 2008. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea stated: ‘We can face a disaster for both the farming industry and our wild strains of salmon and sea trout’, if we do not have control of the salmonnus. The large farming industry in Chile is now severely weakened, precisely because of diseases and lice. In January, a coordinated winter defrosting was carried out along the whole coast. The last lice show that it has had an effect. Nevertheless, the lice level is generally higher than at the same time in previous years. The last report from the Food Authority shows, as the Council said in its statement, that the lice problem is under control, but unfortunately it is so that we get different signals – a signal when talking to the farming industry, and another when talking to those who manage the wild species. Another serious concern is the use of chemicals. The salmonius is becoming resistant to the large amounts of lubricants that the salmon has received in recent years. The use of chemicals against salmonnus in Norwegian farms exploded last year. More than 5 tonnes were used – 23 times as much as in the previous year. Food surveillance is concerned about the increased use of chemicals on farmed fish and their impact on wild fish that are close to the facilities. I hope the Council of State will comment on that. The Public Health Institute recently published an overview showing the use of chemicals and drugs to remove salmonids. It increased from 218 kg of active substance in 2008 to 5,092 kg last year. In addition, 308 tonnes of hydrogen peroxide — a substance that has not been used since 1997. The summary of the drugs also shows the use of the two substances diflubenzuron and teflubenzuron, which have not been used since the 1990s. There is a conflict with the adverse effects of these substances on wild fish around the farms. This also applies to the organophosphate azamethiphos, against which the salmonitus was previously resistant. Lax growers increased the use of chemicals and drugs against salmonids by a total of 2,236 pst. last year. Professor Trygve Poppe at the Veterinary College believes this is a fight the breeders are unfortunately doomed to lose. Escape leads to genetic problems and increased prevalence of salmonidosis. It is therefore essential that those who break the law be punished, regardless of who owns the company. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice now determines that the Minister of Fisheries for the future is incapacitated when the department has to decide whether the fees for salmon escape are non-constitutional. The inter-pellant also points to the uncertainty as to the future status and risk. I don't even know what to believe when we see a look at where the government itself disagrees with itself. Since the Minister for Fisheries has proposed a regulation allowing the county to place applications for establishment and extensions of farming facilities in front of all other matters and to deal with them urgently, there have been more reactions from different teams. The new regulation shall improve the framework conditions for the farming industry. But the Ministry of the Environment writes in its opinion: ‘A time limit for the processing of aquaculture applications will involve a prioritisation of one industry at the expense of others [[...]] The Directorate for Nature Management writes: «With strict time limits, there is a high risk that matters will not be properly dealt with.» I hope the Council of State will comment on these claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1917	We're talking about two important industries here, and the interpellant has drawn up a problem that it's important to look at more closely for the political environment. But we also see that in many ways these two industries live on the media’s production, where the media produce a black and white situation that is very useless – as much for the wild as for the farmed. We recently had a look up in the NRK, where a near could blow off problems related to the wild axis. So the media is an important premiscuous provider for how the perception of these industries is. Then it's important that we, who are discussing this, are accurate in our statements. The representative Fleet stated that fish health is a widespread problem in the farming industry. Yes, it's a widespread problem where a labor with fish heels, but it's not like all over the country, which one could get the impression of. One has regions that wear with lice, for example, but at the same time have another part of the country where this with fish lice is almost absent. We see it especially in the northernmost states of the country. Nord-Troms and Finnmark are examples of areas where this is not a problem at all. Also in Storfjorden in Møre and Romsdal – with a significant part of brackish water – we see that this problem is less than there are other places. But as others have said, today in those areas where we have a significant problem, we have given the Food Authority the authority needed to initiate the necessary measures to solve the problem. And there are already measures in place when it comes to wild-axis. This with liming and other measures has been mentioned. But at one point, I actually thought we were too weak, and that is about the Gyrodactylus war. There we should have waged a much more resolute war to remove that problem. But then we get a look in the media when it's going to be a mediocrity used against salmonnus, where one presents it as if the use has exploded. The actual ratio is that we've now had a fairly long period of little use of these drugs, because there's no need for it. When one so increases it to approx. In other words, 5 tonnes have exploded, as it has been produced. It is completely wrong, at least if one starts from use for 10-14 years back, because then he was six times as big as he was last year. So one has to kind of get the whole picture before describing the problem in total. And then we see Oddekalv rooting up this problem when it's related to the reputation of salmon and farming. When it's about the means to get rid of the problem that salmonids are, and one is about to solve the problem, he's an actor who goes abroad and presents it as if the use of these drugs would make the meat in the fish carcinogenic. The party of progress has been very clear there. We have said that if this rhetoric continues from an actor who receives public support, he should actually lose it. When it comes to the problem of escape, there's one thing that works on the industry, and it's just a bit of a sweaty fine. In the event of non-reporting and as one knows is harmful, the amount of fines paid should be the measure used, in my personal opinion. Finally, the importance of the breeding industry both to provide us with export incomes and to create jobs and others in the districts means that this industry must continue to have viable conditions. An increase in the volume, which was outlined, is positive for the industry and should continue. At the same time, however, we should also say that the hunting and fishing traditions, which have been strong here to land and represent tens of thousands of users, also as recreational activities and as nutritional measures, must be maintained in such a way that they are life-created.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1930	It's not like you can get the impression of Arne Haugen's posts, that every time someone from the Right goes up on this pulpit, it's to say something unfavorable about the Workers' Party. Don't delete, I'm not on any side of this fight – I'm on the worry side. I also hope that the representative Haugen stands there. There I realized that the Minister for Fisheries is standing. There I realized clearly that the representative Nesvik stood, who had perceived my post, did not misunderstand it, as the representative Holmelid hopefully did, for there is no disagreement between the Progress Party and the Right in this matter. You can't look for the disagreements all the time. They're going to have to be found. Anyone who has disagreed most with someone in the last few debates I have been in here, from the business committee's side, is the representative Holmelid, who in this case says that breeding must bear a great deal of responsibility for the problems we are in. No one else has said that. No one from the Labour Party, or anyone from other parties, has said that. And at least the undersigned have not said that. It is important to be aware that SV has concluded. I haven't. I have told the Minister of Fisheries in these speeches that I am concerned about the reputation of the farming industry. Just to make this clear: when I gave a summary of what a representative of the Directorate of Nature Management said at a conference in Trondheim, that was not my point of view. That was the point of view that came from there. You can't interpret them as mine. I am concerned, and that is what I had hoped the Minister for Fisheries would also be. Then I am further concerned because the Minister for Fisheries says in his last post that she is constitutionally responsible for the impact of aquaculture on the wild species. That's really what I was worried about, and that's why I originally addressed the interference to the Prime Minister. It must not be that one sits in separate booths with the constitutional responsibility for one, on the one hand, and for another, on the other. That's exactly what I've been asking for, that's just the other speaker, like for example. The representative Nesvik has called, and that's what makes us not to move on. That's where we have to try to solve the problems, and as the Minister of Fisheries was sent here, I expect and hope that she will.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1939	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate today. I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It deserves the wild. That wild beast also deserves, is a professional, objective discussion, which I absolutely feel has been the intention of this debate. I appreciate that. It is that if everyone takes responsibility for their influence on the wild axis, a lot has been done. That's why I made it clear that I'm going to take the responsibility I have for the aquaculture industry, and I'm going to give them clear information about it. In any case, the job must be done by the industry. I will continue to have a very good dialogue with the industry and not least with the Food Authority. If everyone takes their responsibility, a lot will be done. But anyway, I have a concern. That's the situation we've had in the last two years where the intermediate salmon that's come back to the rivers has been what we call leanness, or at least very slim. It's a situation we don't have enough knowledge about, and we need to deploy resources to get better knowledge about. The representative Haugen was concerned with this with counter-interests, that one should sit around a table and discuss the challenges. I think that's a very good approach to discussion, and that you take an overall view into account for the further work. Here I hear several people say that it is about two industries, linked to wild breeds and farms, having to live side by side. The villa can live alongside the aquaculture industry. To put it correctly: if we do not manage to take care of the wilderness in this country – otherwise we have a special responsibility for it – then perhaps the future of the aquaculture industry is also a little more uncertain. The reputation is multi-faceted – the lice image and the toxic influence. It's like medicine use has gone up, while the lice are going down. I would have been very worried if the drug use had not gone up. It had suggested that the industry had not taken responsibility for improving this situation. The lyophilisates in use are authorised by the medicinal products authorities and, on behalf of the Food Safety Authority, NIVES has implemented a monitoring programme for residues of seafood. Analysis of medicinal products in farmed fish in 2009 shows that there have been no residues of illegal medicinal products or residues of legally used medicinal products above the established maximum levels. The reputation is very important. There were questions about the problem of instability. I'm definitely going to feel like a hack to discuss the challenges of the wild game, and I'm going to do a lot in the future. It deserves the wild. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1958	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1964	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e1994	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2042	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2-8, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 9, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposals Nos. 1-8 is included on page 5 of the vote, while proposal No. 9 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 9, from the Left turned into a transmission proposal and then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government develop educational material for healthcare professionals in the care of demented, mentally retarded and mentally ill people about the proper use of coercion. The material must focus on principles of the use of coercion, ethics and legal legislation.’.» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 5, 6 and 7, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2099	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4 and 8 from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2131	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2167	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Kari Kjöna Kjos on behalf of the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2177	There is a vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an external review of health businesses to be carried out, for the purposes of, inter alia, certification, administrative governance and financial control.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2192	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2232	During the debate, the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, put forward a proposal that was included in the vote on page 9. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Act 18 May 2001 No 24 on health records and the processing of health data, the second to sixth sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following: in the national register of cardiovascular diseases, directly identifiable data shall be encrypted by an external independent body. [[name and birth number]] The information contained in the register shall not be made available in a person-identifiable form other than the registered person or the activity which has notified the information. Compilation of data in the register with data in other registers shall be carried out in encrypted form. The decryption of the information may only take place if this is necessary in order to achieve an explicitly stated purpose within the purposes of the registry or if it is considered to be in the patient’s interests. Any contact with the data subject may only be made through the institution which has notified the data.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2323	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2333	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2354	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-22.ana.ud1354e2430	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
