ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e55	The representative of Tore Nordtun, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e63	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal to increase the state funding associated with the further training of teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e68	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e71	I would like to be allowed to promote a proposal by the representatives of the local authorities Bent Höie, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself to set up a «hazard commission» for the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e76	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e95	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete State Council Sigbjørn Johnsen State Council Lars Peder Breck The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e114	I want to ask my question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food. Last Friday the government came with the proposition relating to the agricultural settlement. On the same day, the Statistical Central Bureau presented its first quarter report on border trade. In this respect, we could read that in the first quarter of 2010, the Nordics were 1.5 million day trips abroad to act. There was an increase of approx. 18 pst. Furthermore, we have seen that trade is also increasing as a result of this. It may seem that the Swedish trade will never end. This week we have also learned that in connection with the fact that the County Council of Eastfold organized the so-called Renewal Conference, yes, the renewal has now come so far that they chose to add it to Stroemstad, in order to really get the Swedish trade up. I also saw that the Minister of Finance was one of the speakers at that conference. In the context of the agricultural settlement, it has been agreed that the price to the consumer of some products should be raised further – approx. 2-2.5 pst. My question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food is this: Does the Minister of Agriculture and Food think that it can further reinforce the trade leakage we already have to Sweden today, and what will the Council of State and the Government possibly do to ensure that Norwegian consumers do not have to pay even more for their goods in Norway? And what will they do to try to bring down the commercial leakage we have to Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e125	Border trade is a phenomenon that exists at all borders between countries where there are different levels of wages and prices, and where this difference makes it profitable to trade the goods that are cheaper on the other side of the border. Nordmänn frontierhandler in Sweden, Swedes in Denmark, Danes in Germany, Germans in Poland, can be found in Estonia, etc. One starting point here is that we can't have a Norwegian salary level and a Bulgarian price level. It is true, as Eurostat stresses, that we have a significantly higher price level for most goods and services in Norway than in the EU. Of course, it is linked to the level of wages and costs in Norway. According to the Technical Calculation Committee, for example: salary levels in Norway above 30 pst. higher than in Sweden, including indirect personnel costs. However, for typical border trade products, border trade is partly due to political decisions, levies and also agricultural policy decisions. Policies must constantly balance cross-cutting considerations. In the last 12 months, food prices in national currency have increased by 1 pst. in Norway and 1.3 pst. in Sweden, and in Denmark they have been reduced by 0.2 pst. So the starting point is that we have to look into the fact that goods will have a different price level in Norway because of cost levels and salary levels, but also because of political decisions, such as: the alcohol charge and the tobacco charge. As regards the question of the price increase in the agricultural agreement, it has been adopted through these negotiations and it provides a total price increase of 0.5 pst. in isolation, as a result of the price changes adopted there on the target prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e138	I am very surprised that the Council of State does not take this issue more seriously than he actually does, for the agricultural agreement and the price mechanisms contained therein, these problems are exacerbating further. I want to repeat: just the first quarter, there was an increase of 18 pst. related to the number of trips to Sweden, 13 pst. in the case of an increase in trade. Since this government joined, fourth quarter of 2005, we have had a trade leakage of NOK 42 billion. This, of course, affects Norwegian jobs, it affects the Norwegian food industry, which in fact cannot sell its products. It is very worrying that the Council of State does not have anything of its will or will to do anything in this situation. Then I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: Has the Council of State and the Government had any limit on how much commercial leakage they can permit before action is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e145	It is true that we have higher market price withdrawals through the agricultural agreement. It is also important and right to do so, because it is important that one in agriculture can also increase incomes as a result of a market withdrawal. Border trade is also due to a number of other reasons, including: excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and food, etc. The third element that I think you need to bring with you is underlined by SIFO, who has demonstrated that prices in Sweden are lower at the border of typical border trade goods than elsewhere in Sweden – i.e. that there are baits. So this description that the representative here gives of the challenges of border trade is incredibly simplified and almost naive. There will be border trade at different borders where there is a different level of prices and a different level of costs. The level of costs in Norway is higher. It is a consequence of the policy being pursued and of our high level of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e150	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e153	I want to address my follow-up question to the Minister of Finance. Of course, a lot of what we can do in Norway to limit border trade goes on Norwegian excise duties. Then we record what today's government has done in recent years. Among other things, charges have been imposed on, for example: tobacco, which is a typical bait, to get people to act, among other things. in Sweden. Today's government has also added food tax from 11 to 14 p.m. in recent years. This, of course, means that even more people see it as beneficial to trade across borders. It is estimated that approx. 10 000 jobs have moved from Norway to our neighbouring countries in relation to border trade. If another industry or industry had lost 10,000 jobs, I would assume that the government would have gotten on quite quickly with crisis packages or other. Then is my question to the Minister of Finance: What crisis packages could he expect to come with to help save or get these jobs back to Norway, at least a large part of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e160	First I have to tell you that I drove across the border and back to Norway when I was in Stroemstad and gave talks to Østfold, without stopping and without acting. So that part of it would be clear! Otherwise, it is clear that the representative Leirstein points out that different levels of costs – to which the Minister of Agriculture was involved – and different levels of charges contribute to the cross-border trade in both directions. There has also been the case at the border between Norway and Sweden. The most important contribution we can make is to pursue an economic policy that keeps Norwegian interest rates low, which will ensure that the competitiveness of the type of industry and activity is now good. Then it's clear that when we're going to decide on the annual fee level, it's part of the assessment. But taxes also have other purposes, the tobacco tax is for example. a part of getting down smoking. So it's not just border trade reasons that underpin the charging policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e167	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e171	I think I have to ask the Minister of Agriculture to come back, because I understand that the Minister of Finance has little experience in the border trade. I am surprised at the passive attitude of the Minister of Agriculture to the question from the Party of Advancement, that he almost only accepts to allow himself to be led to the slaughter leg that this is the case. There is no doubt that some of the reasons are the price withdrawal, which affects the Norwegian food processing industry and Norwegian consumers, and consumers agree with their feet and move to Sweden. We can't stop this, there'll always be some border trade. But my question is, does the Council of State have any plans to reverse this development? And if he has it, when will the Storting hear anything about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e178	Those who know about the agricultural agreement system know that the agricultural agreement that we have just negotiated will have an effect from July the current year and one year in the future, that is, in 2011. So using this year's agricultural agreement as an argument that it has changed the border trade is at least a little obvious, I think. Border trade has increased from 2008 to 2009 and from 2009 to 2010. It's correct that it's increased by 13 pst. in the first quarter of 2010, compared to 2009. But there is no direct consequence of the current agricultural agreement. So we can then discuss: is it right that the agricultural agreement should set a higher target price, or should we use budget money to create the increase in income that is desirable? Then I say yes, it's right to take out the higher target price. In Norway, we have seen relatively some of the lowest food prices in Europe. There may be two countries that have lower relative food prices than we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e183	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e186	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. We need to move from cross-border trade to another cross-border challenge, namely the economic crisis. We see that many European countries are struggling with a serious debt crisis. Too many European countries are struggling with excessive unemployment. But it is not just in Europe that these challenges exist. We see that growth is low in Japan and the United States, and also in China, there are a lot of people now talking about bubbles in the economy, with the consequences it can have for Norway as a commodity exporter. So far, Norway has managed well through the financial crisis, thanks to a large oil fund, but also through the implementation of the necessary measures. But Norway will not be unaffected by the international challenges we now see. Today’s Business Today writes about ‘rest shears in industry’ in Norway, the Evening Post that growth in the economy in Norway has fallen. I don't want to blackmail the situation, because we have a good starting point, and we've seen that Norway has made it through that kind of crisis many times. At the same time, it is serious when the central bank manager, in a consultation with the Stortinget, says that ‘all industries’ in Norway ‘may be lost’. The Governing Councils have been clear on the need to tighten public budgets. The OECD says that we have to tighten up quickly. In other words, we have to bring down the costs, and we have to get the conversion capacity up. I assume that the Minister of Finance essentially agrees with that analysis. What we have seen so far, however, is that at best the government has had a wait-and-see attitude, in the worst case, that one pushes the problems ahead. But let's assume that you've had a wait-and-see attitude. My question then is: what will be the impact on economic policy beyond the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e197	I fully share that approach to the question that Mr Sanner has, because there is a difficult situation out there, not only, as the representative says, in Europe, but also elsewhere in the world. There are two factors that give cause for concern and concern. One is that many countries have big government financial problems, they have to cut the government budget by a lot in order to bring down the deficit, they have a lot of government debt. The second relationship, for example, is Japan, one of the oldest nations in the world, in the sense that those in it will have major demographic changes in the population that make pension and care counts increase sharply in the years to come. So there is a difficult situation, which means that for many years to come, many countries will have to pursue an economic policy that takes account of the large demographic costs that are coming. It is important that we do not paint the situation black, but at the same time it is important that we take into account that this is also a challenging and demanding situation for Norway. And, as the representative Sanner correctly says, Norway will be affected by what is happening outside, and therefore we must ensure that a policy is pursued in Norway that prepares Norway in the best possible way. Then there are basically two main steps that are important. One is to conduct a responsible income policy, to have responsible income statements that take account of cost developments at home, but not least the cost developments that one will see out, which will be low in the coming years. The second is to pursue a tight economic policy. This means that it's important that we return to the 4 pst path as soon as possible in terms of the use of oil revenues in the state budget. That's the main task ahead, and there'll be plenty of opportunity to get back to this. We have no waiting-and-see attitude at all, we want to be active to prevent this from developing into an economic crisis in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e206	This is essentially about how to create security in Norway and how to create security for both work and well-being. But I cannot agree when the Minister of Finance says that there is an active policy in Norway. The question is, what has the government done to raise the ability of business to convert, to create more innovation, to create more jobs, to get more entrepreneurship? Very little, because we see Norway falling in competitiveness, we look at the European Innovation Report that Norway also loses its innovative capacity. It is not enough then to have a responsible income policy and tight budgets, but we also need a policy to increase the innovativeness of business. Because that's where jobs are to be created, so that we can secure well-being in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e211	To give an example: when we look into the future, it is that knowledge is the engine and source of change and building future innovation and strengthening into business. It is one of the areas in which this government has put a heavy strain, on knowledge, on education — to ensure that it has a well-updated workforce. Perhaps the most important contribution we can make to future value creation is investing in the workforce – investing in having a large and up-to-date workforce, investing in children’s opportunities. So they could be the tool that we're going to use to provide security for the production of mainland Norway in the future. Then something important happens from 1 January next year, where the Right has also contributed. We are implementing a pension reform, which means that Norway is in the forefront of many other countries in Europe. There are a number of measures that will improve the growth capacity of the economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e218	There will be three follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e221	There is a fine balance between black-painting and taking Gedrem's somewhat gloomy message seriously, because we have a challenge in how to create the business that will carry the Norwegian welfare society forward. That challenge is significant. I guess that's why the focus might be on, for example. Good roads, time infrastructure and enterprises with the ability to create new jobs and a high level of knowledge in society are very high. There is no good history for the red-green government: only one in ten dollars of oil money taken into the economy has been prioritised for the kind of action since the government entered into in 2005. Revised was without any grip, and it is expected that the Council of State has other ambitions than just coming back on the 4 pst path. It is about how the money will be used to generate growth in Norway. What action will the Council of State take?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e228	At first, I think it is important to underline something that I think there is a broad consensus that we have come out well in Norway, and that we have more opportunities than most others to succeed. But we also – I was saying – have an opportunity to fail if we don't do the right things. So it's not like this government hasn't invested in transportation, for example. 100 B.C.E. kr extra during the NTP period is a rather large rise in traffic in Norway. We had an interesting discussion a week ago about innovation, about conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. I think it's necessary to go through, as I said then, the use of tools – to eat it, to see what works best. We also have to be willing to discuss what steps to take. It is not certain that the grips we did yesterday are just as good tomorrow. But I want to hold on to the fact that pursuing a responsible and good economic policy is the most important tool for securing Norwegian well-being in the future, alongside ensuring that unemployment is kept down and the workforce up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e239	Ulf Leirstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e243	We must certainly take the warnings from the governor seriously. Those were pretty strong words to be at the hearing in the Financial Committee. A very large part of private business is export-oriented and entirely dependent on not least European and American markets buying our products. Of course, we cannot help Europe and the United States to buy our products, but what we can do in Norway, rather than have a wait-and-see attitude, is to help the business that now sees the order books being emptied to get it a little better financially, for example. by using tax relief, at least in a transitional phase, so that it can be facilitated, rather than in the worst case having to resort to permitations or redundancies. I am aware and aware that the red-green government is not very happy with tax reliefs. But at all, you see some advantages in actually being able to help businesses, for example. to facilitate some aspects of our tax system, so that some Norwegian companies can be helped over their knees, when there are times of alarm, especially in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e252	Little back to the revised national budget. One of the measures taken in the context of the revised national budget was a so-called yard package aimed at parts of the industry that now feel that the order books are getting a little slimmer than they have been in the past. An important part of this yard package was the emphasis on innovation and development in that industry — an industry that has shown outstanding changeability over the years. In the case of taxes, this government has taken some action. Substantial relief has been provided in the taxes on wealth financed by other increases in taxes. I will not prejudge the budget and the budgetary procedure, but it may be that within a zero tax promise, it can be possible to shift on some taxes that have a more targeted impact on business. But we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e259	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e262	What we've seen in Europe in the last few months is a labour market and a market for companies that are changing a lot. In Latvia, where many representatives from it were only a few days ago, the salary level has fallen by 20-30 pst. in a couple to three years. At the same time, we know that what was previously an advantage for Norway, namely increased productivity despite high cost levels, has turned around. Productivity in Norway is falling. With as many changes as you can now see, which will affect Norwegian industry, Norwegian jobs and, basically, many Norwegian communities – the government is prepared to turn around and look at its own policies, leave the dogmas and meet them in an offensive way, for example. in the future state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e269	The most important thing about government policy, as I said at the end of the previous answer, is to keep low unemployment and have a large and knowledgeable workforce. It's our best protection for what's going to happen in the future. That's point one. Point 2, which is becoming more important and important, is generally focused on knowledge. We will never be able to recover the loss in terms of the difference in cost levels based on production costs, between Norway and so-called low-cost countries. That means we have to take back some of that leap through productivity and by building up increased knowledge and quality into what we're going to export abroad. But in addition to that, it is also important, as I said before, that in the future we will have responsible income settlements, which of course also take account of the income growth you will see now, not least from our European trading partners. 70 pst. exports from mainland Norway go to Europe, so this is a major challenge, and the main task for the government in the future will be to bring this about with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e278	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e281	The question goes to the Minister of State. As we all experience every single day, there is a great struggle for the great money in our welfare state. Some of the groupings have strong social interests and organisations in their backs; others do not. It obliges us politicians to look behind the noise level and give priority to clear values and to who needs it the most. An example of a matter of great attention is when the municipal minister has stood alongside the Christian People's Party in the fight for the local hospitals, who have created demonstrations and torches around the country. There's no torch for child protection. Much can be said about the situation in child protection, and in particular municipal child protection. There are very disturbing reports from all over the country about unacceptable conditions. The seriousness is further emphasised when TV 2 reports that the strike now also affects the most vulnerable children. 2/3 of the child protection employees in Tromsø are now on strike, and management is concerned that something serious can happen. With regard to the question to the municipal minister, who is responsible for the local authorities' framework conditions, I would first like to quote our children's minister, Lysbakken, who has stated: «The power of now for me» – it is for Stavanger Aftenblad on 3 May – «is to be able to ensure that the large amount of money goes to municipal child protection. It is in municipal child protection that we have a critical situation.» The question to the municipal minister is therefore: does the municipal minister agree with the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion that there is a critical situation in municipal child protection? What action will the Minister of Municipal Affairs take to ensure the promise that the Minister of Children says it is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e301	First of all, I have to show that the question that was asked to me is a question that falls within the scope of Minister of Children, Equality and Inclusion Audun Lysbakken. It is quite right that I am what we can call a Minister of Coordination, as I will coordinate the government's policy towards the municipalities. But the sector responsibility principle is there, and it claims that Audun Lightbakken should answer this question. But I want to answer a little bit about it, because I perceive the question so that it goes not only directly on child protection, but also on the frames that the municipalities are going to solve their tasks in general. And to that question, I can say that this government has had a strong commitment to the municipalities. We have also had a strong commitment to the free resources, which will enable the municipalities to give priority, for example. the local child protection system. There is a serious situation in child protection, it has been stated by the Minister responsible for the area. I would also like to say that it is important that we focus on both municipal and state child protection. And then it's important to have a government that in the last few years has increased the size of the municipalities by 41 billion. kr, which has made it possible to add 65000 more today – a large increase in the level of activity in municipalities. We will also continue to give priority to the municipal sector and enable the municipalities to solve the important tasks they have, and which may be visible to many people at present, when the municipal council is added to the strike. It means a lot to people's everyday lives that there are so many capable people who every day do a great job so that parents can go to work by being able to send the kids to school and kindergarten, and that our older people get care – just to name some of the important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e310	I thank you for the answer, but it is not correct that the question falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. It is the municipal minister who, through the municipal economy, the municipal structure and the municipal proposition, makes it possible for municipalities to lift municipal child protection, for which the Minister for Children has pointed out that there is a great need. The Minister for Children refers to the municipal economy, the municipal proposal and the municipal minister’s budget each time he is asked about municipal child protection. That is why we now want to respond to what the Minister for the Interior will do to give the promise that the Minister for the Child has pointed out that there is a need for it. The government has said that 400 new child protection posts have been created. The Minister for Children admits that much indicates that the municipalities do not follow it up. The municipal bill states that earmarked grants are reserved for ‘national priority areas in a start-up phase’. Is the criterion met in respect of earmarked funds for the protection of children in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e317	The principle of sectoral responsibility is strong. It is the case that the individual expert councils that are promoting their affairs, also have responsibility for the economy, for bringing money into the areas for which the expert council is responsible. That is why the Minister of Health and Welfare has the financial responsibility for health and care provision. For this reason, the Minister of Knowledge also has the financial responsibility for the school and kindergarten sectors, in order to ensure, in the broad puzzle as a budget, that that sector is fully financed, that there is consistency between tasks and the economy. For this reason, the question of how to get a lift in the area of child protection is also a question that needs to be addressed to the specialist councils in that area. I would like to come to the Storting and have a discussion about the sector liability principle, which is very important. And then we in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, together with the Department of the Audun Lightbakken, will discuss how to strengthen the sector, whether it should be earmarking or a free framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e324	Three follow-up questions will be raised, but the President will underline two things: firstly, follow-up questions should be followed up on the main issue, and secondly, as the Council of State has pointed out correctly, parts of the issue now raised should fall within the sectoral responsibility of another Council of State. However, the questioner here has a question of municipal economy in general and designation in particular, which is obviously the theme of the municipal minister. In this context, three follow-up questions are allowed, but it is assumed that they are related to the responsibilities of the Council of State present in the Chamber. The first follow-up question is from the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e332	I want to address my follow-up question to the Minister of Finance – and then we get to hope that it goes well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e337	It's fine if the follow-up question is a follow-up to the main question. It's a fixed criterion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e340	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e345	I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e348	I stand here with a social and health report from an annual report from the county of Hedmark in 2009. County of Sigbjørn Johnsen expresses in this Communication concerns about municipal child protection. Among other things, he points. that several municipalities lack the capacity to have the cases investigated in time. The County also notes with concern that there has been an increase in the amount of work of child protection services in municipalities, without an increase in capacity. This was Countess Sigbjørn Johnsen. Does the Minister of Finance, Sigbjørn Johnsen, also agree that we need a boost in municipal child protection? Sees the Minister of Finance that a rise in municipal child protection can save public expenditure in other areas, such as: psychiatry, social services, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e355	The President would point out that at least there is no opportunity to ask questions to former and future counties Sigbjørn Johnsen in Stortinget. And it seems relatively sought, if you're going to deal with the main question, to ask the Minister of Finance in that way, regardless of his past. But I leave to the Minister of Finance whether this is something that can be commented on on a fiscal basis in relation to the content of the main issue – please, Councillor Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e358	I share the President's view of the formal here. So, in the House, the Minister of Finance is the Minister of Finance in the area for which the Minister of Finance is constitutionally responsible. But when that is said, I would like to stress what the Minister for the Interior was talking about, that it is important to invest in good child protection. For the growth of children, the safety of children, is fundamental to the future security of society. It is important that preferably all children should have the right to a good growth and a good future. Child protection is important, kindergartens are important, and primary school is important. These are areas that the government has high on its agenda and will have high on its agenda in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e365	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e368	While Stortinget is arguing about which specialist council is responsible here, there are many children out in the municipalities who are failing. If it was the case that we weren't going to ask the Minister of State, all the questions should be asked to the Minister of Finance, because he's sitting on the money bag. But my follow-up goes to the Minister of State. The Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion stood and boasted in December last year that municipalities were getting money for 400 new posts in Child Protection. But it turns out, after the number of KS, that there are only two or three municipalities that have followed this up, and then it's the municipal minister's responsibility. Norway has been criticised by the UN Committee on Children’s Rights and by the Children’s Ombudsman because Norway’s municipal structure is far too small to provide the children who need it, the help they need, because many small municipalities have only one employee. My question to the Minister of Municipal Affairs is: What will the Minister of Local Councils do because the small municipalities have the readiness to have them this summer for children in need of help?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e379	It is possible that I heard errors, but I thought the representative said that there are only two or three municipalities that have followed up and added more in child protection. I hope and believe that this is not the case, but if that is the case, it may not be the municipal structure that causes it. The representative may not seriously believe that there are only two or three municipalities in this country that are large enough to allow one person to add more to child protection. We see that the municipalities choose to solve these problems differently. Many municipalities have entered into mandatory cooperation precisely when it comes to child protection, not only to getting a good, robust working environment, but also so that in smaller municipalities and communities there may be a need for a certain distance from the local environment, because it becomes easy for people to know each other. That's how one solved the problems, and so they'll keep solving them. Some people are very likely to merge, and we also have examples of processes that go several places in the country now. We support them when they are voluntary and locally initiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e386	Linda C. Hofstad Hellelend – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e390	You have to look for a long time to find someone who can say that he is satisfied with the two-part child protection we have today. KS reports unclear responsibilities and over-management, and that the money goes to child protection bureaucracies rather than good child protection work. In the municipality of Trondheim, a trial project was carried out in which the entire responsibility for child protection was transferred to the municipality. It resulted in increased competence, increased resources and increased local political involvement of children in the field of child protection. When local politicians took full responsibility, it was a good solution because the children who were in a vulnerable situation and who needed help got much better. Can the Minister of Local Councils answer yes or no, whether large, robust municipalities or small ones, through inter-municipal cooperation, can transfer all and all responsibility for the protection of children, to help the poor children this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e399	First, I would like to say that looking at the consequences of structural changes and changing responsibilities is important. It is important to evaluate, and the effort made in Trondheim, which I have seen as positive, is also important. Then it becomes so again that I now move into another departmental council, but I still take the chance. I want to say that child protection is an incredibly important area for the government, precisely because it is about them – as was said in the main issue today – which is not itself its strongest spokesman. There will be no demonstration train and high compression. That is why I am very much on the agenda. Therefore, we are also willing to see if changes should be made. I can't answer yes or no today, but I know that the minister who is responsible for this, Audun Lysbakken, is also willing to discuss it, because we have to find the solutions that best serve the children who need help in their everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e406	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e409	The municipal minister can only take his place again. I just have a question about the municipalities. In many areas, the municipalities are struggling with different challenges on different fronts. In addition to the strike, which is being stepped up today, there is a well-being challenge, both in the short term and in the long term. Many things go wrong in Kommune-Noreg. The local authorities are struggling with the poor economy. Indebtedness to the municipalities has doubled over the five years since the Senterpartiet has its seat with the municipal minister. The maintenance allowance has increased, and figures also show that municipalities cannot afford to benefit fully from favourable interest-free loans and health care benefits. Of course, the municipalities are getting poorer equipped to meet future challenges. Moreover, the 2011 municipal proposal does not offer any positive prospects. Correctly, it's shown that they're going to get 4-5 billion. kr more. However, taking into account demographic developments, an ageing population and increasing costs because of it, and also increasing pension costs in Municipality of Norway, increasing interest and other tasks, mean that municipalities will not receive more money. Nor has there been any incentive for us to get a municipal merger, to get fewer municipalities than the 430 we have today – which could result in an efficiency improvement of Kommune-Noreg. The bill also announces that municipalities will retain a smaller proportion of tax revenue. This is not a brilliant reading. Then my question to the municipal minister is: When are the municipalities going to get it lifted as the plural government now has alerted for five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e422	In the years in which the majority government has its seat, the municipalities have been given a lift. There are today between 30,000 and 35,000 more annual works in the municipal sector than we were when we took over. That's about. Add 65000 more. It means something to all those who are going to have services in the municipal sector. I'm not going to go into telling you what it was like before we came, but if you had a slide with some curves here, a set of things would look like a pretty big lift in the last five years. It's money and getting people in jobs that can solve the challenges of child protection, school and kindergarten, in the care of the elderly, so that people feel they get the services they need in their everyday lives, and that makes people get their everyday lives around. When reference is made to the development of debt, it is right that there has been a growth in the debt tax in the local government sector. At the same time, the liabilities are composed so that not all liabilities are charged to the municipal budgets. Some of them are services that are financed through a fee, such as renovation, water and sewerage. Some of them are about the interest compensation scheme, one of which is covered by the government. Some will be passed on to individuals and companies, including: The home bank's loans. So it's a nuanced image. Of course, we also have ambitions to strengthen the sector further. We work on every day, and I mean the community proposition we made a short time ago, shows that even in times that get tighter financially, we give priority to the welfare of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e431	Now it's the way one doesn't experience it like that in Kommune-Noreg. 60 pst. the municipalities have expressed their feelings that they have had a poorer economy in 2010 than they had in 2009. I think one will feel it as a further deterioration in 2011, with the signals leading. When it comes to the implementation of several annual works, it is true, but there are also several tasks, several challenges, and there must be a balance between them. This also means that more and more municipalities have introduced property taxes in larger and larger parts of the municipality. Then is my last question to the local government minister: Is it true that the ministry has sent out a letter stating that municipalities which do not impose local property taxes are to be punished by being excluded from receiving the funds from government budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e440	When we presented the municipal proposition in ours, I explicitly said that there will be redistribution between municipalities. Then I also explicitly said that the county will, in the letter sent from the department, be made aware that those municipalities should pay particular attention to the county in the distribution of the clientele. I mean, it's the only new signal I've given about how the county manager is going to distribute his shield resources. I cannot bear in mind that I have sent out a letter ordering the municipalities to introduce property taxes before they can be evaluated for paint tools. I hope I think right, if not, of course I will come back to that. I can't see that that's the way I want to run the local government sector. I want them to have local freedom of action. I also want them to have a local democracy that allows them to prioritize locally how they want to set up and fund service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e447	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e450	In its first response, the Council of State points out the importance of the efforts made to increase the number of public servants in the municipalities. It was probably about 35,000 new annual works. If a municipality is to function properly, it is also important to have private business in place. In other words, a policy must also be pursued in the municipalities which make it profitable and interesting to establish businesses in the private sector, because the private sector is important for obtaining income from the country for the other welfare tasks. The problem is that in this community proposition, which we now have to deal with, there is no incentive for municipalities to facilitate increased economic development. The revenues, if we include: looks at the corporate tax, falls to the state as a whole. We saw a year ago that when it came to income from farming concessions, they were going to go to the state, not to the municipalities. What is the Council of State going to do to improve the organisation of industrial development in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e461	I experience municipalities – and then I talk about municipalities in general – which are very concerned with the development of nutrition, which is occupied with the role of social development, which is concerned about how they can be better able to accept founders, accept those who want to establish themselves, and strengthen existing business. The signal I'm getting is that they want so liberality in the economy that there's room for having people who can work targeting business and business to develop it locally. This government has also listened to it. We've given larger frames than previous governments. We have improved the ability of municipalities to have funds beyond what they need to provide the required services. So I don't experience a local government sector leaning back and thinking that public settings are good. I feel that they are very forward-looking when it comes to private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e466	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e470	There are many municipalities that actually do active work. But what's the problem is that the government is doing its best to reduce the importance of it. Now the representative Nesvik was involved in this with the company tax. In addition, we see that the municipal sector's share of tax revenue is reduced from 45 pst. to 40 pst. Next year. KS had a national government meeting on Friday, and at least Navarsete State Council was to be there. There, with a unanimous opinion from the national government, cross-political, they say that local anchoring of income is important for local self-government. Why has it become a goal for the municipal minister to reduce the responsibility of municipalities to strengthen their own incomes and make municipalities even more dependent on the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e479	The difference in tax revenue is the biggest challenge when it comes to providing equivalent services in the municipal sector. I'm not talking about similar services. The services must be designed locally. But our task is to facilitate equivalent services. And when tax revenue varies from 60 pst. to 260 pst., it says itself that it does not offer the same possibility for equivalent services. Therefore, this government now has in two steps reduced the tax component, first from 50 pst. to 45 pst. and now from 45 pst. to 40 pst. It makes us confident that it will enable the municipalities, all the municipalities in the whole country, to provide equivalent services and also to have the possibility – because we also have a financial framework of a completely different size than that of the Right in its reign – to have resources for a little more than the statutory services and to be able to do good business in their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e484	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e487	The progressing party raises questions about the municipal proposition. I just want to take a simple little area within the community proposition, and it's about the resource-intensive services. At the hearing in connection with the municipal bill, I challenged KS to say a little about the consequences of the government cutting its appropriations in the municipalities. The answer is that municipalities are doing the best they can to maintain quality. It's kind of this area they're cutting at last, sticking to what the government did in the 2010 budget, where they cut in the appropriations. I have a simple question for the Council of State: will the Council of State engage in dialogue with the KS to find a mechanism that both parties can be satisfied with in terms of resource-intensive services?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e496	It was a simple and direct question, and I can give a simple and direct answer. We have a very good dialogue with KS. We've met at different levels, and I'd like to discuss resource-requiring services with KS, too, with the aim of finding a system that is stable, durable and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e503	Let's move on to the next main question. If we are careful with the number of additional questions, there will also be a main question from Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e508	My question goes to the Minister of State. The waves are approaching, and we have to make sure to be as rusty as possible to meet it. Everyone agrees that building more nursing homes is necessary and essential. Over the last 20 years, we have built over 40,000 nursing homes in Norway. Many thousands of these have been built by private companies and housing companies. The government is now going to stop this progress towards ideological bargains by limiting the Husbank grant scheme to municipal and public actors or so-called non-profit actors. It now appears that the fear of private actors is greater than the desire to solve the actual challenges of care for the elderly. In the municipalities, there is a great need to implement good and necessary health and care services. But it seems more important for the government to prevent such offers from being provided in the same way as all other services, than to provide nurturing people with a good offer. Because it is a fact that the municipality's large-scale investment and construction of kindergartens had not been feasible without private tenderers, entrepreneurs and private kindergartens. A State Secretary from the Workers' Party says to the Evening Post that the purpose is that private operators should not make money to build nursing homes. I thought the purpose of nursing homes was to take care of the elderly. And we have to remember that even though the builder is public, not all carpenters are state-owned. Will the Council of State consider changing the legislation, so that we can release all good forces to meet the challenges of the care of the elderly? The most absurd thing here is that living quarters which in normal red-green terminology were regarded as part of the Community solutions are excluded. The rapporteur, Odd Henriksen, in Fauske, says this: The expansion was stopped because it was forbidden to use the housing model, which has been used with great success for many years. I therefore do not understand why such a ban came.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e519	As I have said in previous answers, there has been a strong growth in municipal services in recent years. It will also be necessary in the future to solve the challenges that lie here, not least by getting more older, and getting more older, thank you for having a healthy population that lives longer and longer. And we'll be very happy for that. It's a health sign, and it's positive that we're still getting more people who get to live for a long time. We in the government want it to be a decent offer. We want the community to be able to manage important parts of the service provision. Therefore, we have also wanted to enable the municipalities to make the necessary development. And we'll do that in the future. But it is not that the offer is purely municipal today either. There are many organisations in the third sector that do a formidable job in helping to solve these challenges. I also want to welcome those who are welcome to join in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e526	I can agree that the municipalities have a very large responsibility in building out nursing homes; it is so large that the Häsbanken grant rules are clear that it is the municipality that is applying for and receiving grants. But when housing laws are excluded, when private providers are excluded, that means that we're back to the honorary orders of the Center Party on municipal autonomy, which are torpedoed by the ideological tunnel dark government has run into. What is the reality here is that the municipality receives the grant, and if that is a housing law the municipality considers to be the good actor they want to cooperate with, they are now denied. This means that there are only municipalities following the red-green line and leading the red-green policy, which will have to expand these care homes. Then the question is again: why does the Minister of State have such a lack of confidence in Norwegian municipalities in this area? Does not the Minister of Municipalities think that the municipalities themselves can decide what will be decent housing for their inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e535	This municipal minister has an incredible faith in municipal self-government. I have great confidence that the municipalities are able to make all, most important, local assessments. And it's not like today that the municipalities are building up; of course, it's a private company that does the expansion. But this is about who should be responsible for and managing the operation. The government has so far desired that it is the municipalities that have the responsibility. We also want in future to enable the municipality to be the good service provider as the municipality is today. There has been a lot of black measurement in this room today of the situation in the municipal sector. I want, from my point of view – I travel a lot, it certainly also makes Storting’s representatives – to nuance that image. This has been a hell of a job. Of course, there is an improvement point, both in the care of the elderly and in other sectors. But the basis one has to improve is at least good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e542	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e546	This question does not concern who is responsible for the operation of the contents of the care service, but who is responsible for the operation of the building mass. It is therefore the case that the red-green policy now stops concrete plans and projects in Oslo, Fauske, Mysen and Trøgstad. Hundreds of places for elderly people in line waiting for nursing homes are stopped. The Minister of Local Affairs can change the guidelines for the House Bank, so that these construction projects start this year, so that older people are not in line, so that they are given an offer of good, safe care homes – most of them within a housing model that the Minister of Municipal Affairs should know very well about the functioning of the excellent and will ensure good offers where the municipalities provide the services, with the contents, in nursing homes. Why does the Minister of State not want to see to it that these people are given an offer of nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e551	It is unlikely how easily most right you get when you get the problems in this question time. It's not just about this problem, it's about others too. There is no doubt that there is an ideological difference between the Right Party and the Government Party with regard to the desire to let go of private as far as possible within different sectors. We have great respect for and good cooperation with private actors. The municipalities have it in many areas, but we want it to be pretty tough conditions, we want the municipalities to have control of this field. That's why we've chosen to put ourselves on the line that we've put on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e560	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e563	The size has determined a measure that the number of hospitalisation sites shall be equal to 25 pst. by the number of persons over 80 years of age. So we're going to need 18 000 places today. We're at the level we were at when Gerhardsen was prime minister. If the Council of State feels that there is a lack of will on the part of the municipalities to meet the objective, or it might be the government's reluctance to do so, among other things. against the construction of these dwellings by housing companies, the absence of funds to stop the projects, or the inability to redeploy available funds as a result? Does the Council of State understand that the regime for the construction of hospitals and nursing homes – giving municipalities the opportunity to mannify with qualified staff – needs to be changed if we are to be able to achieve the objective of providing the elderly and sick with a worthwhile offer, both today and in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e570	I don't like to say that, but we're actually kind of in the same situation that we were in on a previous question -- at least when it's related to parts of this question. It is Minister of Health and Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen who is responsible for the development of both hospitals and care centres. The reason why it might not work as quickly as the representative thinks it should, is actually her responsibility to answer. What I want to say on this occasion is that we facilitate by raising the frame to the House Bank so that there will be more sick homes. We encourage us to follow up on what we have said about a strong growth, and we are in the process of fulfilling the care plan that we in the Soria Moria Declaration have said we should meet. We shall continue to do that job evenly and faithfully in the coming budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e577	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e580	I fully agree with the Council of State that an incredibly good work is being done around the municipalities. There's no doubt about it. But in the case of nursing homes: can the Council of State in a simple and popular way, so that I too understand this, explain why not, for example, the Norwegian people. The municipality of Skien can join forces with Skien Dwellingslag to build more badly needed nursing homes? Why can't the municipality itself be allowed to decide this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e587	I already have an answer to this question before. I could say that again. We have, from the government's side, a request for precautionary conditions. The municipality should have a control over this, and therefore we also keep the development within the municipal system. I believe the Norwegian people understand what the difference is, and I believe the Norwegian people understand that the right side of Norwegian politics has a different ideological view of this than the red-green government, which is occupied by the community, and that the community should have a control over such an important area as health and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e592	Then is the next and last main question from Trine Skei Grande. Because we're already overtime, the number of follow-up questions will be limited to one, from the same party that asks the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e597	Thank you, I can take on the job of summarizing today's Question Time. It is to the Minister of Finance I would like to ask questions: Now, when we see that many countries are forced to make a big deal, we've been confronted with an OECD report that says that the state has been quite inefficient, that we don't get enough out of our money, that public consumption is high, without getting so much left for it, and that employment is high. Norway is enjoying the fact that we do not have to do the major structural transformations, but the OECD Vice-Chairman says that many countries would be able to benefit from actually doing some structural transformations, because then one would have got more for the money a user spends. Now this government has been sitting for five years. You have had a so-called Minister of Renewal without any renewal. We might have the most conservative government we've ever had. Now we have a Minister of Renewal, which is also called Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church. I guess that says a lot. We see that internal disagreement in the government is paralysing the major reforms. We see an interaction reform that cannot be implemented because we do not want a community merger. We saw an administrative reform that just ended up in a newly showered county municipality, while actually yelling at the whole sector to find good solutions to get more money back – more well-being and more service to the individual citizen. Then is my question to the Minister of Finance: What measures does the Minister of Finance see in order to meet the criticism he says in today's business that he fully agrees with, namely that we need some major transformations in the public sector to drive it effectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e612	This is an important question, and I think we should be honest with ourselves. Some have been members of this assembly for many years. Before, in earlier times, we were probably too much concerned about the size of the allocation, and to a lesser extent about discussing the composition, how the allocation works, and what we want the allocation to work on. I fully agree that it is important that we both have a discussion, and get a discussion, about how we spend our money, so that we get the most services out of the dollars that we give. Then there's a spotlight on the public sector. Most of the money we spend in the state budget is transfers to private individuals and goes into the private sector in a way. But it is important that we also have an alert eye on how we spend our money in the public sector. The government is working on a scheme where we're going to go through this in selected areas, which I can't go into right now. We'll get back to that in the 2011 budget, where we'll define some areas we're going to work on, what one might call the use of money in public enterprises. Then I'd also be allowed to say that often the debate goes on more general things. It's easy to cut a lot over the same comb. Throughout, we have a good and active public sector in Norway, which does an excellent job in many areas. It is a public sector that is important to build up under the competitiveness of private activities. The school is important, and other things are important. It is wrong to try to stigmatise and say that the public sector is consistently inefficient. That's not right. But there are areas in which we can improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e624	I fully agree with the Minister of Finance. If the Left gets to contribute to the Questionnaire, then we'll deal with the big questions. That's what I think we should do here, and we like to contribute when we get permission. The council will not be concrete on what things to do, but community has been a sort of mantra for this government. My question is, what is the concept of community? Community, does that mean that it's only public that's going to do all the tasks? Don't we build fellowship in other ways? We see that this government has run a storm against non-profit organisations in the field of drugs, in the area of child protection, which causes us to get worse results, and in many cases it becomes more expensive. What we discussed earlier today — municipal care homes — alternates between being comical and tragic. The finance minister recently said that he had gained new knowledge about OPS, and it sounded exciting. My question is: is the community just to be on public payrolls, or is it actually building community and good solutions for the citizens in other ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e637	The Community is the whole of society. When using the concept of the strong community, it is also an expression of the social security that is in the heavy systems to ensure people's security: security of income, security of old age, security of pensions. But if you look at the story of Norway, that's one part of the story. The second part of history is the role of organisations — the voluntary organisations, the trade union movement and the efforts of voluntary Norway to bring forward this welfare society that we have today. This government has put heavy emphasis on the conditions of the voluntary sector, which is an important part of the common sense we are going to have in order to bring welfare into the future. The Community is not just a public servant. It is all the tens of thousands who also work in non-governmental organisations, and who take on a roof for Norway to become a good society to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e644	It will then be a follow-up question – Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e647	In today's Business there is a debate about corporate power. It is an interesting debate, especially related to the need to make sensible restructurings on public sector modernisation, on which the representative Trine Skei Grande challenged the Council of State here instead. Any initiative on restructuring, on efficiency improvement, put forward by the opposition in this room, is being reduced. An example of this kind of power is Jan Davidsen, head of the Federation of Trade Unions, who organizes the employees of the municipalities and county councils, who sit at the same time in the Central Government of the Workers' Party and in reality have veto rights in matters where there is a conflict between the interests of the community and the interests of employees in municipalities and county municipalities. Does the Minister of Finance see that this kind of power may have gone too far, at least in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e658	The organisations have power in Norway, and there are many organisations outside the traditional trade movement that have power. I've seen many lobbyists in this house who also represent organizations and interests that have great power, and that have some great impact in the Norwegian community. What's going to be the main task is to set this up in such a way that it becomes the best thing in the community. If you look at Norwegian trade union movement and the role it has played in the construction of the Norwegian welfare state over many decades, I'm pretty sure it will be a positive story. Not least, I got it early in the 1990s, when Norway was in a very difficult economic situation. At that time, both employers and trade unions contributed through the solidarity option to Norway’s economic recovery. But of course we have to be aware of the power factor that these organizations are in society. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e665	Today there will be no ordinary Question Time, and therefore case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e679	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President, up to 5 minutes to each of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e686	The so-called secret services have been exposed over time to a critical searchlight. Following the Lund Commission's report, a number of changes were made to the country's secret services, and it was emphasised from a political point of view that a better democratic control of services had to be ensured. As a result of this approach, the EEAS Steering Committee was set up to carry out checks on intelligence, surveillance and security services on behalf of the EEAS. The service is still exposed to a critical searchlight, and it is basically quite natural that suspicions and allegations about such services that operate ‘under the radar’ arise, to put it that way. I believe, however, that there is reason to stress that the main impression today is that the intelligence, surveillance and security services in Norway are working well, in line with the assumptions made by the Stortinget. The EOS Committee, such as the Supervisory Body of the Stortinge, reports directly to the Stortinge through an annual notification of its activities. The selection may also send a separate message to Stortinget. However, the sample did not send any such messages to the Stortinget in 2009. The EOS Committee carried out 27 inspections in 2009. It also receives some complaints from individuals and received 19 complaints against the EOS services in 2009. In addition, the sample itself has initiated 20 cases. The main impression of the notification is that the services operate deliberately and mainly within the regulatory framework. The sample has also pointed out that in cases where the sample identifies errors or deficiencies, services are mainly followed up quickly. During the preparation of the annual notification, the services receive relevant extracts of transparency to ensure that no information that is eligible for protection is provided in the notification to the Stortinge, which is publicly available. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the SV and the Central Party, also considers that it is appropriate that the services be provided and give an opinion on the facts presented in the annual notification. Any disagreement between the sample and the services on facts should, in the opinion of those parties, be reflected in the text of future annual reports. In this way, a non-contradictory principle is also guaranteed in the treatment of this type of control matter. I would also like to mention briefly some specific findings of the EOS Committee in the respective services in 2009. The EOS Committee has criticised the Security Service of the police, PST, in some areas for registration in the SMART work register, both in the context of a specific complaint by a specific citizen and in the context of a practice on the transfer of recorded data in the SMART register for storage on a preventive case. These data are not then evaluated according to the five-year rule, but can be stored for a longer period without a review of the basis for storage. The Committee shares the opinion of the EOS Committee that this appears to be a circumvention of legislation, and we assume that it will be followed up. The Committee also considers that the time has now come to assess the issue of permanent transparency in older data registered with the PST. I would like to stress that, in the first place, there is only one assessment that the Committee calls for, and that this must also be seen in the light of the experience gained with the interim transparency law that came after the Lund Commission's review report. The EOS Committee also controls the national safety authority. Much of this control work is related to security clearance issues, and the committee has not expressed any criticism of closed appeals, which the Committee is naturally satisfied with. There are some unresolved issues relating to procedural procedures, but this must be regarded as a relatively innocent matter, which the Committee will be briefed on at the next crossroads. The defence security service has been subject to some serious media criticism in 2009. I use in the post the term ‘FOST’, which was the term in 2009. Of course, I am aware that FOST has changed its name to FSA in 2010, but the message applies to the previous year. FOST was also reported to the police by the Ministry of Defence as a result of media coverage. The EOS Committee is, on the one hand, very critical to parts of FOST's lack of follow-up to requests from the EOS Committee. Furthermore, FOST has been less willing, according to the sample, to provide the sample with transparency. The Committee has made it very clear in its opinion that it is not up to either FOST or others to decide on the transparency to be granted to the sample. The committee itself defines its own need for transparency in order to follow up its control responsibilities on behalf of the Stortinget. Nor is there any basis for refusing such transparency in the sample. The Committee has also made it quite clear that it is essential to be able to carry out effective monitoring that requests from the sample are answered without undue delay. The Committee has noted that a new instruction has been established for FOST, now the FSA, which may involve changes in the division of tasks between FSA and INI. The EOS Committee has not found any basis for criticism of the E service. There is temporal cooperation between the Police Security Service and the Defence Intelligence Service. The Committee agrees with the EOS Committee that operational cooperation between the PST and the E service will clarify the legal framework under which each service operates and that the services will also make each other aware of this. Complementary procedures have now been established for the cooperation between these two services, with which the Committee is satisfied. The Committee is largely unanimous in most areas, but the Progress Party has some specific comments in relation to the report of the Defence Security Service. I'll go closer to it now, and put on the party hat. As mentioned, FOST is subject to some criticism in the EOS Committee report. Some of this criticism is a good basis for it, but I think it's worth noting that considerations that suspect employees' morals and attitudes towards their own work appear to be quite foreign. I myself, along with the Progress Party fraction, visited FOST's department to combat Internet and computer attacks on Norway, and all the employees we met had a very conscious relationship with their own work. They are very despicable in the way they deal with concrete threats. I must also say that I am very sceptical about the Ministry of Defence's police report on FOST. In simple investigations, the department itself found the police that there was no cause for suspicion. The police should not be used as case handlers in such cases. As mentioned, the police quickly stated that there was no basis for further persecution. Employees have felt that it is difficult to be subjected to this process, which is primarily reminiscent of an internal battle of power in the Defence, and possibly also between the security authorities. It is essential that such possible power struggles do not lead to a reduction in safety focus. We also fear that the change that the new instruction now opens up could divide up an important environment of competence and reduce Norway’s opportunities for effective defence against threats that come, among other things. via the Internet. These challenges are far greater than I think we've taken on board, and the instructions can open up a system that could reduce the focus of defence on this threat area, while one should actually strengthen that focus significantly. In some cases, there may be a major challenge to how Norwegian defence capabilities will emerge in a new threat picture. I would also like to point out the danger of the new instruction opening up an organisation where the FSKI, or the former FOST subdivision, will no longer be included in the primary control area of the EOS Committee. The main motive for new instructions seems to be the misunderstandings the department has committed in relation to the cases reported to the police, where FOST and the FSKI subdivision came more or less innocent from the whole. So the solution to the ministry is to remove the part of the work that the ministry criticised from the primary control area of the EOS Committee. This does not mean that it is outside the control area of the EOS Committee, but it is outside the primary control area. It's kind of strange in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e731	Let me start by referring to the rapporteur's statement, and I say like him, that there is essentially a common position from the Committee on the Annual Report of the EOS Committee to the European Parliament for 2009. It should be said at regular intervals from the Parliamentary Chair – and I do so, so that also the members of the EOS Committee present in the Grand Council today hear that the EOS Committee is doing a very important job for Norwegian society. It is about a modern, democratic society having its so-called secret services, and these services must be controlled in a sensible and correct way. It is clear from the attitude of the Committee of Inquiry today that the EOS Committee is doing a good job. I would also like to say that it is very clear both in the public debate, in the political debate and in the EOS Committee's communication that the services we have are services that have confidence in the public administration, and they have confidence in the population. The two factors are, of course, very important for the proper functioning of these services and for the fulfilment of their obligations within the Norwegian central government. Services have such confidence. The EOS Committee must always take into account that some of the information it has needs to be graded as security. In addition, the need for the protection of information received from foreign cooperating services needs to be emphasised. The committee transmits parts of the text of the annual report to the services in order to ensure that these considerations are respected. I'm saying this because there's been a certain discussion in the Control and Constitutional Committee about how the EOS Committee builds up its message. From my point of view, I would just like to underline from the Spokesman's point of view that what says that the sample should consider including in its message the views of the different services on what the sample is dealing with is not a criticism of how the sample works; it is not a criticism of how the sample has built up its message today; it is only a point of view that the committee has, and which may perhaps be relevant to discuss with the sample in the continuation, in the time until the next notification is available to the Storting. It is the case, as everyone knows, that there are in particular the three regulated so-called secret services to be checked by the sample, but the sample has also had on its own initiative inspections of FOST, which have already been mentioned. I would like to say with a language a little outside the script, which I think is the most comprehensive: I hope we do not get any repetitions from the type of services we see referred to and reviewed in this setting. That's, to put it straight out, not acceptable. It is not these services themselves that define what is the limit of what they should disclose. It's determined by the Storting. The sample has this mandate. That is simply not acceptable. I hope we don't see such comments from the sample in the years that are coming. I would also like to look very strongly at the initiative of the Government of the Minister of Defence to clean this up. The Minister of Defence has done so in close contact with the Committee, and the Committee is very pleased with the way it has been handled by the Minister. Then I noticed that the representative Anundsen criticized the Ministry of Defence for going to the police report. For my part, I would say that it was absolutely necessary to do it at that time. It helped clear up the matter in a reasonable and correct way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e752	SV is also pleased with the important work done by the EOS selection, and in its time we were very happy when it was created. We are also pleased that it is a constructive cooperation with the services. We believe that the services have their legitimacy out among people and strengthen democracy, not weaken it, as we experienced on the left in the 1970s and early 1980s. Now these services have a higher status and legitimacy. Then it is that SV is very happy that the Minister of Defence has cleaned up FOST-saka and got her on the right track. It was absolutely necessary, and like the representative of Kolberg, I also believe it was necessary to get the police into the picture at the time when this was done. So SV is happy that we've got a joint committee to take in what the EOS selection has wanted, that when it comes to PST, a few opennesss about 30 years old material. We expect the EOS Committee to be satisfied, and we expect it to be followed up by the Minister of Justice. Then it's like the EOS selection has wanted a national audit practice where one should send it to the services first to get it back, and it's a way that the SV and the Central Party aren't even some in the comment about it. The intention behind this is exactly what Kolberg now said, and as I think it takes care of the need that is, simply to do what we require of the services themselves. We have to ask the EOS selection if it's a good idea for us to do it. We can do that before we implement something that might not have been tricked, by allowing the EOS selection to become more careful, and it could weaken the concrete work. Therefore, we need to have a conversation with the EOS selection before the next report, so that we do not destroy or make it harder for the EOS selection to work with what Stortinget has told them to work with. So I have a couple of challenges that I want you to look at, eventually. One is about security clearance. People are still complaining that there are too many people who need to be made sure – that there is an excess of it, and that that number makes it meatpowder, and so it doesn't work as it should. Here, one in my opinion needs to go in and see what you can do to reduce the need for security clearance in the situation that the country is currently in. So it's clear that new technology gives the EOS selection some challenges. I've understood on the selection that they're going to strengthen the crew in this area, and I think that's very necessary and very clever, because it's really a challenge, not only for the EOS selection, but also for some of us. Finally, I just want to say that I'm happy that we also get a shortened annual message from the EOS Committee, because I think I can do that, not only are there deposit representatives reading it, but also that other people are looking into the important work they're doing. SV is grateful for what the EOS selection has done, and hopes that you will get even better working conditions to do an even better job in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e769	I am pleased to note that the cooperation of the EOS Committee with the National Safety Authority and the Intelligence Service is still good, and that the sample has not found a basis for criticising neither the National Safety Authority nor the Intelligence Service in the Annual Report. I have noticed that the committee has raised several issues related to the FOST Security Service, which has now, as already mentioned, changed the name of the Defence Security Department, FSA. Initially, I would like to say that I agree with the sample's partly strong criticism of FOST linked to, among other things. lack of record in the proceedings, failure to inform the sample of its own initiative and insufficient contribution to informing the cases. I have also expressed this to the sample on several occasions. The EOS Committee has as its central task to verify that there is no injustice to the individual citizen and that the services work within the framework of the legislation. It is essential for these control tasks and for the legitimacy of the activities to provide the sample with adequate and correct information. That this has not happened in the dialogue between the sample and the then FOST, I consider very serious. The Ministry of Defence has followed up the case with the head of defence and will follow up further in the future. The selection has, and shall have, an unlimited right of access to the documents and records which the sample considers necessary for the control task. The Ministry of Defence has launched several actions, which I believe will also provide the basis for a better dialogue between the sample and now the FSA. Among other things, there is now a strengthened and direct ministerial control of the FSA. An important focus of this control will, of course, be the relationship of the department with the EOS Committee. In the direct dialogue with the FSA, the Ministry of Defence will follow up on the prioritisation of requests from the EOS Committee. A good relationship with the control authority is crucial for the trust and legitimacy of the business outside, and I want to focus on this in the future. In new instructions on the security service in the Defence, which was established by the Ministry of Defence on 29 April of this year, I have placed considerable emphasis on setting a clear legal framework for the provision of security services in the Defence, in order to ensure that the essential requirements for the legal security and privacy of the individual are respected. The instructions include: explicit requirements for documentation of the process at all levels of the organisation. This will help to ensure that the monitoring of the EOS Committee can be carried out in a simple and appropriate manner. In addition, FSA has been required to have the necessary legal competence in its own organisation to conduct and document satisfactory legality checks prior to the initiation of investigations. The Ministry of Defence has given the Chief of Defense a mandate to implement and operate the instructions in the Defence Department, and I am sure that this will be done in a good way. In addition, the Ministry of Defence will follow this closely, inter alia. in the future office management dialogue with the head of defence. With regard to the specific cases examined by the sample, I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the EOS Committee on the legal basis. However, the cases have shown that there is a need for a more detailed assessment of some issues related to the scope of studies undertaken. The Ministry of Defence has started work on the issue of cooperation with foreign authorities on this type of issue and has expressed to the sample that we will return to the sample once this work has been completed. The issues addressed by the sample in the 2009 Annual Report will be closely monitored by the Ministry of Defence. I will also give tribute to the committee for the important control work done to prevent wrongs being committed against individuals. Services operate within the framework of laws, regulations and other guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e790	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3605]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e806	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Martin Kolberg, who is given the floor on behalf of the President-in-Office, Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e815	As it appears, the Committee shall submit a unanimous opinion. The Committee has noted that the Ombudsman has now pursued a very far-reaching activity with many extensive inspections at the various facilities of the Defence Agency. The Committee welcomes this very much. Like the Ombudsman, the Committee is well pleased with the attitude-building work carried out through the compulsory military actions. Here, the themes have been drugs, suicide prevention, defence security focus, defence women and the collegial relationship between command and soldier. All of this is very important and a strong contribution to making the conditions and therefore the well-being of the guardians and commanders even better. I am also pleased that the Trustee System – TMO – receives good follow-up, and that the course for TMO and HMS continues to be a priority as a measure of well-being and cohesion in Defence. In particular, it is gratifying to see that a professionally strong trustee apparatus in a growing number of disputes finds a solution through informal contacts between the parties. The Committee has taken note of the assessment of the treatment of the security clearance of the data subjects and considers this to be an unsustainable situation both for the defence and for the defence. These are signals that are taken very seriously. Like the Committee, the Committee will follow this matter closely in due course. These are conditions that need to be rectified reasonably quickly. The Committee has also taken note of the consideration given to staff discussions for vulnerable ratings and the rules governing the issuing of military service certificates. The Committee agrees that this needs to be closely followed up because this is important in order to create good relations during the service period and in order to give the defence a good reputation. An overall committee welcomes the fact that there is ongoing and positive work to provide apprentices with further education and jobs. This is very important in order to ensure the recruitment and good competence of defence in the time to come. The Committee notes that the situation regarding access to doctors, nurses and nurses has improved but is still not entirely satisfactory. It is very important that the soldiers receive a fully satisfactory medical offer during the service, and I therefore see it as very important that the work on the recruitment of health professionals continues. An overall committee is very pleased that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have concluded an agreement that ensures the independent supervision of healthcare in the course of foreign missions. The Committee also mentions the importance of ensuring both service providers and veterans a good professional offer after participation in international operations and expresses satisfaction that the defence psychiatry service has now introduced new posts and that the service is in positive development. We are aware that, despite this, there is a gap between the needs expressed by the veterans and the follow-up offers available today. Finally, let me say that the Committee has taken note of the Management of the Ombudsman’s activities for 2008 — that is, the previous setting — and that it called for a greater degree of conclusions and recommendations from the topic. The Committee considers that this has been far-reachingly achieved in the year’s document and is pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e838	Only a few very brief comments on this position, which is unanimous at all points, as the representative of Kolberg also mentioned. I will salute and express satisfaction with the important attitude-building work done by the soldiers of the guardians. Themes of these actions, for example, have been drugs, suicide prevention, security focus in Defence and collegial relations between command and soldiers in Defence. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health and Health have concluded an agreement to ensure the independent supervision of healthcare for those serving in foreign service. It is also very important that both serving and veterans be guaranteed a good, professional psychiatric offer after participation in international operations. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case, so I am very pleased that the entire committee joins in the contributions of the Progress Party that emphasizes just this. The defense's psychiatry service has now been given new posts, so that the service is in positive development. However, there remains a gap between the needs expressed by the veterans and the use of the follow-up offer available. It's still a long way to go. It is therefore important to monitor closely how this develops in the future. I would like to end, like the Committee's position, by pointing out the unsustainable situation in which there is too much time to deal with the security clearance of those under protection, which was also the subject of Mr Kolberg's representative and the representative of Mr Langeland in the previous case. This situation creates problems for both defence and those involved, and this now needs to be addressed and addressed. We can't have it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e851	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3605]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e867	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Here, too, is the first speaker, Martin Kolberg, who has posts on behalf of the President-in-Office, Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e876	Here, too, I am delighted to present a unanimous opinion from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I start by saying that the Committee has noticed that there is still a decrease in the number of transfers to civil protection obligations, and that the change is the greatest in terms of the increase in the number of applicants for end-of-life services. At the same time, there is a percentage reduction in the number of applicants transferred after being called into service in the Defence. The Committee took note of the fact that crews transferred directly from the Defence Force are older because a share would have been selected from the previous annual coal in the Defence Force. The Netherlands considers that this will affect the cost of each year’s work, as there will be more and more payments of housing supplements and more who are entitled to support supplements. The committee has noticed this, but I can't see that this is a matter on which it is possible to change without compromising the circumstances of those who serve. The Committee has noted that the status of the contracting entity portfolio is in line with the objective, that there is good access to assignments and that there is no problem with outsourcing. This, I think, is good, and those who serve get to do important societal work. The Committee has noted that developments in the violence and conflict prevention service – VOKT – have not been in line with the objective in 2009 and that action has been taken to ensure that the free annual works, which will be a resource for many contracting entities, are used more in the future. The Ombudsman stresses the importance of continuing this type of mission, both for schools, leisure clubs and other tasks which have such workers. It is also pointed out that the civil guardians themselves are provided with a meaningful and socially beneficial service. The Committee has noted that the sharp decline in the number of civil protection officers in recent years has led to extensive conversions by the civil service administration. An overall committee welcomes the fact that employees have seen the change as positive and that the crew is now seen as right in relation to the number of tasks. The Committee shares the Ombudsman’s concern about the low number of guardians using the adult training quota. At the same time, it is gratifying that the trust-elected consider welfare work to be positive. The Committee considers that the report provides a good overview and description of the activities during the period in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e897	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e913	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the parties and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. The President will also propose that there should be no change of line, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e920	Nor in this matter from the Control and Constitutional Committee will there be any special action, for here it is that one agrees on most things. There's one point it's at, and that's that a large majority of men in the committee -- and only men -- don't want a gender-neutral title on the civilian ombudsman, for example. ‘sivil environment’. The population has great confidence in the civil environment. We are very pleased with the work being done. The Committee believes that we are improving the quality of civil law work by ensuring that there is something we want to do, that if one recommends a legal case, and it ends badly, that the other party becomes aware of liability, the public shall cover the costs of the case. This is essentially important, because it means that it's possible to have more things than one has today. This also allows the local authorities to see themselves freer to recommend cases in court. That means we from Stortinget's side are progressing. The Committee also informed the Government that the United Nations Convention on Torture must be followed up and that the practical work on the Protocol should be added to the mandate. This would like to be quickly put in place by the Committee. A great deal will be complained about the civil environment. We in the government will claim that it's not because of something we in the government do -- it has more to do with people knowing more about civil rights. An increase of 30 pst. In the last five years, from 2,000 to 2,700 cases, most people now know more about the ban. So we would like to have an opportunity to discuss several of the matters that will be notified. We believe that what we did when it relates to the costs of the counterparty makes it possible for the order to deal with more matters than the relatively few cases on which action has been taken – of course if there are grounds for doing so. Let me end by complaining that the majority in the committee is relatively conservative. It was probably the Director of the Data Protection Agency who called a representative in Eastfold the "Bornert". I think there are a lot of people on the Control and Constitutional Committee who are unable to follow in time. I would like to ask you whether you should not revert to the name of a part of the property that has been renamed. Should it not now be called «the gender equality and discrimination man», should it not be called «the consumer ombudsman»? That's what must be the logic of this when you don't want to be involved in modernizing and giving the civil environment a name that is consistent with the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e937	The President would point out that there are actually female members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e940	There are female members. None was to support the men who did not want any change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e945	It has already been said by the representative of Langeland, but I would like to say, from my point of view, that this with the title of the ombudsman is, in principle, an important matter. That is why we are in favour of this comment, given the importance of being given a neutral title to as much as possible by the public administrations. I just wanted to take the word to say this, so it'll be heard, because there's a principleal consideration around it. So I would also say, as the second recital I have, that the civil ombudsman will hear from Stortinget that we are very satisfied with the work done. It's a very demanding job in an open, democratic society to be the Ombudsman, really for the people. That's the office we have that is of such a nature that it's supposed to represent the individual. Of course, it is demanding in a great democracy, how many interests are out and going. I believe that it is very important that the Stortinget, through its treatment, but also through what is now said here, gives the Ombudsman – preferably personally, but also the institution – the authority and legitimacy it really needs. Because there are many things, and it doesn't have much to do with government, I think, it doesn't have much to do with politics, but it has to do with administrative culture. It's very important that we say that we have an agent that can stand up and represent the individual citizen, because it's not always that the administration does the right thing. There are too many examples of breaking the rules and laws that Stortinget has given. There are too many examples of the individual citizen, or person, not being heard properly and legitimately. The ombudsman's office plays a very important role. It is of great importance to the work done, and I agree with what the rapporteur said. It does not damage the attention of more people to the work done in this institution, so that more people can make effective use of it. The last thing I want to say – and when I say it this way, I expect it to be understood correctly – is that at least it is not that the civil ombudsman takes too hard. Sometimes at least I feel, as I have now been involved in the cases, that I would like to be able to do even harder. There are a number of things that deserve hard characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e956	Just a few brief considerations. I also need to pay strong tribute to the work done by the civil ombudsman. It's an incredibly important instance for most people. It shows both the number of complaints sent and not least the number of complaints handled by the Civil Ombudsman. It has been relatively stable — slightly increasing. But it is important that one contributes, as the committee unanimously says, to the fact that the scheme becomes even more well-known. It's kind of a citizen's last chance, and that job does the civilian ombudsman very well. So there's a perspective on the title of the civil ombudsman: when it becomes the main debate in the staging room related to such an important and big message, I would say, as a colleague of mine, I would have almost said, 'Then we have it in fact quite well!' From the majority of the Committee, it is not a priority task to change the name of the civil ombudsman. It is an international concept, and gender-neutral is perceived everywhere else, just not in Norway. This is a challenge in Norway. Then I just want to mention the short relationship to OPCAT, which is a convention that Norway has signed, but not ratified. In a written question, something earlier, I took this up with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then, among other things, he answers.\t\t You can change ‘One of several possible alternative bodies for the performance of these tasks, as the representative points out, is the Ombudsman for the administration. However, clarifications remain in some areas before completion of this work.» I would like to ask the government representative to bring me to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Committee in the section on page 12 writes, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee therefore asks the Government to facilitate compliance with the OPCAT requirements by the Civil Ombudsman so that OPCAT can be ratified as soon as possible.’ I think it's important that one now specifies that the committee has actually helped to clarify this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e977	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e993	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the parties and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. It is also proposed that there should be no line change, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e1000	There is a well-known issue in the political conversation that there is a discussion about the work of the National Audit Office. That is why it is important to start this speech and this reading by saying that there is an overall committee, and therefore an aggregate one, which clearly expresses satisfaction with the work of the National Audit Office. From the main control body of Stortingen, reports of high professional quality are provided, providing the Stortinget with a good basis for the control activities to be carried out by Stortingen. It is essential and essential that the control apparatus is robust and has high integrity. The executive authority shall be controlled, as the administration and government issue matters of great importance to its citizens. The annual report presented today to the Stortinget provides a good insight into the business for 2009. It is worked according to a four-year strategic plan, in addition to the annual activity plans. The Committee endorses the Riksrevision's own assessment of the need to make the best possible use of the competence as a whole. It provides systematics and the Storting with important and, as far as possible, correct information. Flexibility, so that new problem areas are captured, is underlined by an overall committee. The national audit itself has prioritised and followed up important areas such as: Navel and health care, which has an impact on many users and is of great importance for the individual’s living conditions and development of life. The National Audit Office has identified major challenges in these areas in previous audits, and it is good for most people that such things are so obvious. The Committee agrees and considers it important that the Riksrevision should conduct administrative audits. This type of audit is useful for Stortinget, because it can reveal administrative weaknesses, which in turn provide the basis for needed changes and improvements. A strong and good example of this is the review of Nav, which revealed significant weaknesses and system failures that affected many users. In view of this, the government is now undertaking a necessary review. However, it is important to stress that the Riksrevision must at all times be aware of the limits of what policy recommendations are and that this awareness is reflected in the reports of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office is aware — but it is also emphasised by the Committee — that ICT must be highly skilled in the apparatus of the National Audit Office, in view of technological developments. These developments present a good future review to major challenges. Of course, data security is already of great importance and is even more so in the future. The national audit carries out an extensive international activity and has cooperated with national audits in a number of countries. The committee agrees to this and says it's good. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight in particular the positive cooperation between Norway and Russia and the inclusion of common Nordic issues on the agenda. The audits of the management of fishing resources in the Barents and Norwegian Seas and of radiation safety and the protection of the environment against radioactive pollution are important contributions to the sustainable and safer development of the northern regions. I would like to quote from the vote, because it must also be said from the floor of the Parliament: ‘The Committee is pleased that the issue of the right of the National Audit Office to have access to documents in the administration has now been clarified.’ Everyone who follows this debate understands why I quote this. It's clear that the committee here is behind the Riksrevision's understanding, and I refer to previous proceedings. Finally, I would just like to say that it is important that the various reports from the Riksrevision come up against the various objectives. This year, there is a joint committee which both favours this new practice by the Riksrevision and at the same time assumes that the exchange between the use of book targets and new Norwegian continues in the way that the Riksrevision has already provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e1027	Let me join in the conclusions made by the representative of Mr Kolberg as the case rapporteur. There is a broad satisfaction in the Committee on the Work of the National Audit Office, and I would like to draw the extra emphasis on, and also the joy of, the fact that the Stortinget has come to a consensus on the right of the National Audit Office to have access to documents in the administration. The annual report of the National Audit Office also shows some aspects of the audit effort by accounting audit, administrative audit and company control, and that it is relatively stable over time. At the same time, emphasis is also placed on: the need for high-level ICT expertise. Behind this is probably an indication from the National Audit Office, as I see it, of the need for increased resources. To that end, I would like to say the following: it is common for the administration to – at any time to stress the need for more resources – but it is also important to stress that before concluding that, one must be willing to give priority to the tasks that are now being carried out. And the National Audit Office has good opportunities to prioritise in different administrative audit areas. Now, when we are in expectation of a 2011 government budget to show a sense of urgency in the light of the economic problems facing that country, and the over-exploitation we have put into practice, I also think it is important to stress to the Riksrevision that they must also show the moderation and ability to prioritise within the resources they currently have. As regards the administrative audit, many interesting administrative audit reports have been provided. However, it is important to stress that, in two contexts, the Stortinget makes decisions — both through large-scale communications and the objectives that are drawn up there, and through the priorities that come through different state budget treatments. Both are part of the administrative audit. It is in terms of the distance between budgetary decisions and objectives in the budget and the actual results achieved, I believe that the management reports are making the best. There is no great art in delivering management reports that point out that large-scale messages attract targets that may be overly optimistic, to say the least. It has happened under changing governments and is likely to continue to happen. But that's where the results are different from what you could expect from the resource availability, that the management audit reports have pointed out, I think, the most acute problems. The representative Kolberg himself mentioned the report on Nav. It was very interesting. I would also like to point out a few reports in the area of aid and development aid, which have led to the development department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now, among other things. has put in place more stringent measures on corruption, budgetary support, etc. I think more can be done in these areas as well. So it's important to give priority. And if it is the same in other areas of government that ICT is addressing the need for increased expertise and more staff, priority must be given to the framework in which it is based. I think you have to get used to that within general government in the years that come. I would like to stress, for the sake of order, that this post is held on behalf of myself, not the Minister of Finance, but I don't think he would have disagreed so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e1042	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e1050	The size then goes to voting in case No. 2–6; Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-02.ana.ud2411e1142	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
