ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e43	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. From 28 May to 1 June, to take part in the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Riga, Latvia, there is an application for leave from the representative Tore Nordtun. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Laila Thorsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e66	Laila Thorsen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e71	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, to propose amendments to the Law of 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time, job protection, etc. [[Cessation of employment due to age]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e92	In the course of the millennium, The Economist published a rather unusual necrolog. According to the journal’s writers, it was God himself who had died. It has long been assumed that belief and religion in modern society should be gradually displaced for the benefit of secular realities or ideologies. But whether it was Nietzsche, the religion sociologists of the 1900s or The Economist who declared God's death, the world around us shows another picture: The big religions are not going back, but in strong growth. An estimate shows that the four largest religions, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism, gather more and more followers, both in the number and proportion of the world’s population. Religion plays an increasingly important role in both national and international policies – in good and bad – and in our debates. Yes, the class struggle editor recently suggested at a seminar that ‘God is back in the media image’. And the chief editor of the same journal that in his time issued the famous death certificate, argues along the same lines in a wide - made book called "Good is back". The question of faith and religious interpretation of life touches on many of the most fundamental aspects of human life. In recent years, Norway has moved from being a relatively uniform society to becoming much more diverse and more secular. The religious life of our own society today is characterized by the long lines, from a strong Christian cultural heritage on one side to a greater religious diversity and secularization on the other. In the wake of this development, the role of religion in society has become more unclear. Our public debates demonstrate a great deal of uncertainty in dealing with questions about the place of religion in society and a lack of insight into the importance of faith for both individuals and the community. That is why there are many examples in recent years of media and politicians falling into contact with religious reality. Our debates on such issues often end in a little-thought-out demand for bans or regulations that cannot be dealt with in principle in the long run. The ban on religious schools, the ban on hijab, the ban on glamorous religious symbols are an expression of a belief that religion really does not belong in public space. This line has been tried through history, but has never worked in length. Human beings are not just material beings — they are body, soul and spirit, and they will at all times seek spiritual answers to spiritual questions and want to express themselves in the public space about this. In many ways Norway faminates in the attempt to preserve our long Christian tradition, while at the same time facilitating diversity and freedom of belief for all. Some believe that diversity must lead to the privatisation of religious practices and to the purification of the public space for religious expressions. Others call for religious communities to adapt fully to the values of the big society, and in this process will place restrictions on freedom of belief. Troll-based voluntary efforts are often pressured between an active country and a commercial market. The training of faith and religion is on the wane front in public schools and in teacher training, where it is made entirely optional. This is why the Christian People's Party wants the Storting to discuss the place of religion in our society. In the extension of the broad consensus on changes in the Constitution on the relationship between State and Church, on cultural heritage and value base, Norway needs a religious policy. A simple media look at the situation can leave the impression that Karl Marx was right when he postulated that «religion is opium for the people» and that a purely secular society had been the best solution. Such a superficial perspective easily leaves the impression that there are religions that are germs of fundamentalism, terrorism and conflicts. We read almost daily about the abuse of power in the name of religion, whether it's women who don't experience equivalency, or religious people who commit enormous acts of trust by abusing children. Such use of religion is abuse. That's not acceptable, and I think there's only one opinion about that in this room. But religion and faith have an enormous impact on the quality of life of many people. In many areas, the social building work of religious communities plays a crucial role in the well-being of both individuals and communities. The religious communities build natural communities, and for most of the Nordics they play an important role in crucial moments in life. In the event of accidents and crises, people turn against their churches and religious communities. A quick look around us shows that society had become poorer without the presence of religious communities. The diaconal work of religious organizations all over the country gives thousands of people hope and dignity. They do a job that cannot be replaced by the public, and they have often been pioneers in social work and health. So society will lose a lot about the place of religion being ignored. Social building work on the origins of faith-based activities will be hampered. If we lack knowledge of what faith means for human quality of life, we can easily underestimate the importance of facilitating faith-based activities in society. Without an understanding of the importance of faith for individuals and societies, our ability to deal with social challenges is weakened, where the key lies in such an understanding. Without religious competence, much of our peacemaking work and all dialogue work involving religion will fail. Instead of clearing religions away from public space, we should recognise their societal potential, and instead of considering religion solely as a source of conflict, we must see that the key to much conflict-solving work is also to include religion in society. In order for the faith-based communities and organisations to continue to play an active and positive role in the building of society, we need to pursue a policy based on cooperation between authorities and religious communities on the one hand and respect for the peculiar nature of religious communities and for freedom of belief on the other. In Norway, we have a long tradition of such cooperation between authorities and religious communities. Among other things, we have a system of state aid for all religious and life-seeking communities that are quite unique in international contexts and that have facilitated too much good, living and religious life in Norway. At the same time, from time to time, a political team has fallen into temptation to try to override the religious communities in the field of teaching and theology, in order to make it more appropriate to the current perceptions of society. This is not the task of the politicians and, in the ultimate sense, it is a threat to freedom of belief. When e.g. some politicians have threatened with State aid if religious communities or organisations do not change their teachings, it is a gross violation. An example of this was the decision to cut support for the youth of the Salvation Army. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister met the criticism of this decision, and at the same time showed that respect does not mean agreement or uniformity. The tendency to override our largest religious community, the Norwegian Church, by setting the Church's own desire aside from matters of doctrine, order and employment also gives cause for concern. For this reason, it is historically important for our future religious policy that a unanimous increase has gathered to change the Constitution so that the political overarching of the Norwegian Church is removed, that support for the Church of Nations and other religious and life-viewing societies is enshrined in the Constitution, and that it is established that the basis of value remains our Christian and humanist heritage. At the same time, freedom of religion and respect for human rights are established. This political agreement represents, as I see it, the bottom line of future religious policy. The right to believe is one of our most fundamental human rights. Respect for freedom of faith means that we have to endure the fact that religious and life-viewing societies have a set of values and a teaching that goes against the flow. In many ways, there's a kind of lacmus test on the tolerant society. It is well known that the one who is safest on his own identity is also the one who is safest in meeting with others. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that all children, no matter what religion or way of life they belong, have knowledge of our national cultural heritage and their own background. This is why both teacher and school religious and life views are important. The individual training of religious communities is an important communication project for society, and it is an important element of religious policy. My hope is that today's debate can speed up and contribute to the development of a comprehensive and good religious policy here in the country. Important pillars of such a policy should, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, firstly, be that the State guarantees freedom of belief, secondly, continued support for the Norwegian Church and other religious and religious communities, thirdly that it facilitates that faith-based activities can really make a social effort in society; fourthly, that we contribute to knowledge of religion and the Christian cultural heritage through schoolwork, teacher training and faith training in the society's own regime; and last but not least, that we defend an open democratic society based on diversity and tolerance, where religion must also be the subject of debate, but not a society that advocates the violation of freedom of faith. Let me be glad to say that the Prime Minister has chosen to answer this interview himself, that he is coming to the Stortinge to answer these fundamental questions for the development of our society. I will end by asking the Prime Minister what he thinks should be the basis for promoting a comprehensive religious policy here in the country, and what role the Prime Minister thinks religions should play in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e149	In line with this introduction, we give the floor to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e152	The representative of the High Line addresses important questions in his interpellation. Religion and vision of life have always been an important part of human life. Our relationship with religion and view of life is part of defining us both as individuals and as societies. Many have their faith and outlook on life in small and large events. For some, faith dominates everything they do, like what they eat, and how they dress. People find support and strength in the idea that there is something greater than themselves; what we cannot fully understand. For many, faith is important at great transitions in life: when people are born and die, at marriage, when major events are to be marked. Others do not believe in a deity, but find belonging and guidance in a clear view of life. At the same time, religion has been shaping the societies we know today. Religion has helped to lay the foundations for social systems and governance and has shaped the building of institutions, values and norms. In this way, religion and view of life have great and profound significance both for the lives of individuals and for society, both in our time and in our history. At the same time, we know that many do wrong in the name of religion. Religion has been used and used to oppress groups and individuals by refusing to live their own religion, or by having to live by rules other than those applicable to the majority population. In the name of religion, or under the cover of religion, it is committed, among other things. abuse of children. And religion is used to justify discrimination against women, people with different sexual orientations and ethnic groups. Unfortunately, this is also happening in our own time and in our own society, both within Christian, Muslim and other religious environments. So let me be clear: religion can never be used as an excuse to violate fundamental human rights, to undermine democracy or to defend abuse. At the same time, freedom of religion must be strong in our society. It is this demanding point of intersection that is the foundation of our belief and life-view policy. By definition, a democratic state is a state in which different opinions, different views of values and different views of life are to be broken. It reflects a diverse society. However, a well-functioning society and a well-functioning state presuppose that everyone can end up with certain basic principles and rules. Democracy, the rule of law and human rights are such key principles. These are principles and values that can derive their justification from both religious faith and secular views of life. There are values that can be divided across different life-view lashings. As the representative of the Høybräten is involved, Norwegian society has undergone major changes over the last decades. Although the majority of the population belongs to the Norwegian Church, we experience an increasing ethnic, cultural and religious and life-seeking diversity. And even though we have a state church system in Norway, the state is not religiously motivated. The State and the public sphere shall be governed by legislation that is to be coherent – across different beliefs or different perspectives of life. The increasing diversity of beliefs and life views enriches society, but also creates challenges. For this reason, the relationship between state, society, individual, religion and outlook on life has become more closely linked to the political agenda in Norway and many other countries. Personal belief is a private matter, but the organisation of beliefs and views of life, government grants to these religious communities, and the role they should play in the public arena and public institutions, is a matter to which we as a state and society must discuss and decide. The design of the school and kindergarten application paragraphs are examples of such issues. The new purpose paragraphs stress that kindergarten and school should convey values, but not influence students to follow a particular religion. While diversity is positive, there may also be contradictions between religious norms on the one hand and the central principles of Norwegian society on the other. Freedom of belief and life must therefore be balanced in some respects against other fundamental rights and principles on which society is to build. Blasphemy was not passed on in the new penal code. Freedom of expression stands, and must stand, strongly in Norway. Law is about society and the relationship between people, not about the relationship with a deity. Another example is employment and other internal conditions in religious communities. Here, the consideration of freedom of religion and the right of religious communities to self-government must be balanced against equality and equality. The government will follow up the state-church settlement. The final evaluation of the reform of democracy in the Norwegian Church will be available by the end of 2011. This will form the basis for the government’s evaluation of the reform, which will be presented to the European Parliament in spring 2012. The representative, Højbräten, expresses the hope that today's debate can contribute to the development of a comprehensive belief and life-view policy. I shared that hope with the representative Højbräten. We have both pointed to key principles and considerations in the formulation of belief and life views. The design of policies in this area means far too many and is crucial for how we as a society handle and live with increasing religious and life-seeking diversity. At the same time, the State–Church equation illustrates that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy is committed to finding coherent and timely responses to the key challenges of belief and life views policy. We want to involve many, and we can't have a bad time. The government will therefore bring down a wide-ranging public body to go through the policy of belief and life. The Committee shall make proposals for amendments which may contribute to the establishment of a more holistic policy in this area. The selection shall deliver its submission by the end of 2012. The work of the selection and dialogue to be carried out by the sample with religious and life-viewing communities and other relevant actors in society will provide a good framework for the further development of a common belief and life-view policy in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e194	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a very timely response. In his statement, the Prime Minister expresses an understanding and respect for the faith of individuals and the importance it has for individuals, and he expresses an understanding and understanding of the great and formidable importance of religions to society. The Christian cultural and value base has been crucial for the formation of our rule of law, our norms and the great Norwegian community. At the same time, it is true, formally speaking, that Norwegian society is an open democracy that is not linked to a particular belief. But it is equally true that in the Norwegian Constitution today we have a clear value anchoring, and that a total increase agrees that we should also have a value base in the new Constitution – it says in the agreed joint proposal: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanistic heritage.» So let it be established. I also agree with the Prime Minister that belief is a personal matter. At the same time, the belief and exercise of freedom of faith have consequences for the relationship between people and the relationship between people and society, and therefore it is not possible to say as the Saudi Prince in conversation with our foreign minister yesterday did that everyone in Saudi Arabia can practice the religion they want, as long as they do it at home. It is a definition of freedom of belief that does not conform to international standards. You have to be able to believe what you want, you have to know what you believe, and you have to have the right to change your faith. Such freedom of religion is the possession of very many countries in the world. We want to have it in Norway, and we want to have room for expression of faith, both the pure religious and the social expressions that faith gets and that contribute to building society, and community, around the country. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister is coming to meet us and wants to put this issue broadly on the agenda. I think it's a good idea to gather different perspectives on this in a broad sample. I look forward to joining in and contributing to the debate further, and I look forward to the debate here in the Chamber as a basis for what the government is now going to do with drawing up a mandate and setting up such a selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e205	I thank the representative for his assessments and considerations. I believe, as the representative, that it is important in itself that we debate these issues. It is clear that it is important what we make of decisions in the big and government on purpose paragraphs, on state-church settlements and on other issues that are about how we organize ourselves as a society in relation to faith and view of life, but in the field of faith and life it is also such that the debate itself, the values and attitudes we convey in public space, have a value in itself. The conveying of tolerance, the conveying of respect, the conveying of brilliance in relation to the fact that people have different faiths, different views of life and different values, is in itself a value. We as political leaders have a responsibility to communicate it in public space. We can adopt a lot, but we can't adopt positions, we can't adopt a tolerant society; that's something we have to practice together and each for ourselves. Personal faith is a private matter, and it gives me an opportunity to stress that what people do is for which they are personally responsible. Although they use religion as a reason or an excuse, it's not like they're going to use it to stigmatize groups. One of the things that's been scary is that we've seen access to stigma because some representatives of a group have committed things that we deeply disagree with. I think that is an important message. Yesterday, I met Indonesia's president. He is president of the country of the world that has the largest Muslim population. It's a democracy, it's a modern society, it's a society that fights a lot of the oppression that some people associate with Islam because some people have committed injustice and oppression in the name of Islam, or used it as justification. We must remember that it is individuals who are responsible for their actions that we must not stigmatise whole groups. Then I agree that freedom of religion is something you must be able to practice outside your own home. It is very strong in Norway, and it is important that in our dialogue with other countries we also convey our view that human rights include freedom of religion and the right of people to practice it also in public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e216	Value debates are important. That's because the debate itself is a communication of the values we're dealing with, as the Prime Minister has just said. It is an affordable initiative taken by the representative, Højbråten. I appreciate that. Religious freedom in Norway today means something other than what it did before. The State Church is strong in Norway and has done so for many, many years, but is now changing. In the past, entries of other religions were rare, almost exotic. Today, Norway has many citizens who profess a different belief from that of the Christian. Such changes challenge us all, simply because it requires reflection on what is contained in the concept of freedom of religion, and what it means when religion's freedom is contrary to other human rights. In any case, there can be no doubt that religious freedom is a human right. That means that each of us should decide whether we believe in a god and a religion, what god and religion we believe in, or whether one does not want to be religious. These are simple relationships that are easy to agree on. The complex questions arise when religion is to be practiced and expressed in a way that influences other people, or contrasts with central values. So I'm going to think about it, for example. on the use of religious headgear, on which there was debate in the main hall yesterday, on the construction of the Godhouses, the Muhammed drawings, the freedom of employment and the establishment of religious schools. But I also think that traditions related to the state church are being challenged. The uproar and debate about the Muhammad drawings is a very good example of what happens when values such as freedom of expression and religious freedom collide. Different actors use these equivalent values as a tool against each other, as if one is more important than the other. Religions must endure criticism. Religious people must accept freedom of expression. But they are also allowed to feel violated and express it without the use of violence, in the name of freedom of expression. Both are equally important. The consequence of that is that we have to be able to balance these freedoms, and that is not easy. It requires knowledge, and it also requires training, both in understanding when religion has a natural place in public space, and when it doesn't. Let me use a fresh example. In Heggedal, in my own municipality, there has been a fierce debate in connection with the May 17 celebration. Every year, the local pediatrician stopped in front of the church on his way to school, and the parish priest held a brief night. This year the parental committee decided after many years of discussion that they would end the tradition, because the 17th May train is for everyone, and such a moment is not faith-neutral. The service was to be left behind by the pediatrician so that those who wanted to participate. It led to a violent change of words in the newspapers and some boycotts against the train. The circumstantial thing was that this was a long tradition, and that no one had hurt by a short night. I believe it was a fundamental right decision to make. May 17 is a celebration of the Constitution, for all, and has nothing to do with religion. Each can enter a religious dimension, but the community should not do it on behalf of all the others — nor the community in Heggedal. In other contexts, we experience the opposite. Often, there may be examples of a lack of knowledge about the power and place of religion in many people’s lives. Our society is apparently highly secularized, and religion has been viewed as irrelevant in many societal debates. Faith has been thought to be a private matter that should not be in public space. In my view, it is a simplification that can lead to direct misassessments – not least in the events following the Muhammad drawings. Knowledge of religions, cultures and values of all kinds is very important if you are to be able to walk straight in a less homogeneous society. Such knowledge will be the best navigator for demanding weighings. The task of society must be to create a framework for each individual to live in his own way within the framework of human rights. Therefore, there is a need for a separate religious and life-seeing policy. The protection of freedom of belief in the Constitution and the right of expression are fundamental and important. However, practical arrangements are also essential for individuals. I mention the following key chords: religiously neutral seremonium and burial sites, flexible holidays to celebrate celebrations, access to God's houses and beauties. These conditions are natural to come back to the public body that is now to be reduced. There is a work I look forward to following on, and that it will be a pleasure to discuss here in this room gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e239	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative for this important debate. It's an opportunity to raise your eyes a little bit and take a fundamental debate about a theme that I think is very topical and important. Then I think everyone in the room agrees that personal belief is a private matter – while it also belongs not only in the private room, but also should be able to be expressed in the public space. I also think everyone agrees that you should not accept abuse, repression, etc. which is legitimate from a religion. One of our leading anthropologists, Thomas Hylland Eriksen, has written a book using the term "roots and feet" in relation to the cultural debate. I think that is actually a good expression in the debate we have here today. All forward movement must be based on the roots we have. We must know the past and our historical heritage in order to shape and make decisions for the future. We agree that Norway has a millennial Christian tradition, which through history has shaped our society and our culture. In the school curriculum, this is well described in the general section: «Christian faith and tradition form a deep stream in our history – an inheritance that unites us as peoples across faiths. It embodies the people's standards of life, the world of imagination, language and art. It binds us together with other peoples in the rhythm of the week and the celebrations of the year, but also lives in our national peculiarities: in concepts and confessions, in construction and music, in conversation and identity." This is what the curriculum says, and that's what's going to be the basis for school education. I think that is quite well said. But a little bit of the question is how we follow up on some of these things – not just how the students should learn it, but how we follow these things up in practical action and take care of it. It's probably some of the things that are behind the interpellation today. In particular, I would like to address two issues that have been raised in our time, and that both the Prime Minister and the interpellant were involved. The first is the restriction of the freedom of employment for religious and life-view societies and their activities. In this case, the government received a clear feedback from a group of Trotness- and Life-Sight Norway that the restriction would violate their integrity and self-government. The government, however, chose to run through its proposal. The other thing is the location of the bishops' presidents in Trondheim. There the Church had a thorough and good process on the question, but the government also chose there to overrun the Church and make a decision contrary to what the Church wanted. Both of these matters give a certain picture of a government that does not value and respect the freedom and independence that the religious and life-view societies – and the Church – must have. It gives a picture that you would rather want more control and control, and we have seen little about the advice the Prime Minister invited to this winter – at least in these matters. Today, a great job is being done in many religious communities, churches and life - vision organizations. But I think too often many of these experience being suspicious in the public debate, they like to get a negative stamp like dark men or fundamentalists or moralists or something like that. These are businesses that have meant too many, and that add important values to society. I would therefore encourage the Prime Minister and the members of the government to talk well about these businesses, talk well about the prayer house, talk well about the Sunday schools, talk well about the congregations – about Christian schools, kindergartens, drug institutions and all the other social work that is run by many of these businesses. They add very great values to society. They need recognition, respect, trust and freedom in the work they do. Finally, I would also like to mention one of the religious minorities who have recently experienced difficult relationships, namely the Jews. Through the media, many Jewish children have experienced regular persecution for their beliefs in schools. The paradox is that this often comes from people with a different religious background, namely Islam. There must be absolute zero tolerance to this type of harassment. Norway has a pretty bad story back to 1814 about our relationship with the Jews, and we must never accept Jewish persecution or harassment of Jews of any kind in our country. I think it is important that the government shows clarity and action when such conditions are revealed. We're going to have space for different religions and life views in public space. We're in many ways a multicultural society, but let's not be so historyless that we ignore or counter the important central religious heritage of our country is actually built on. We need to be safe on our own identity in order to meet other ideas and religions in a good and constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e263	I will join the others who have thanked the interpellant for taking up a fundamental interpellation on a matter that may not only be everyday policy, but which is about commenting and discussing how we deal with issues that are big and difficult, and where the policy has absolute limits on how far the policy is going. I meet many representatives from different religions, both minority religions and what we can call majority religions in Norway, and there is one common pressure coming from them at the moment. It is the experience of a lack of understanding of what religious freedom means, both in the public debate and in the practical exercise of politics. What is the responsibility of a country that has clearly defined in its constitution and believes that freedom of religion is part of the fundamental human rights? What does that mean in today's society? The pressure is not from minority religions towards majority religions in Norway. The pressure is from secularization and the lack of understanding of where the boundaries go. How far can one go as a politician, or, in public space, where should the boundaries be drawn from religion? It seems to me to be an important discussion to take, because I think it would be neat in relation to many of the challenges associated with both minority and majority religions and the large, broad picture we have today. When we chose to make law against ethnic discrimination not only a law against ethnic discrimination but also a law against religious discrimination, under the previous government, it was because it was a clear and clear signal that discrimination on the basis of skin color, based on ethnicity, had somehow become a less problem than discrimination in our society on the basis of religion. For it is religion – and, of course, Islam – that is seen as an even greater challenge, and discrimination has been greater on the basis of it, and has not diminished in the six years that have passed since the adoption of a protection against discrimination in Norway. To believe, to choose to live a life by following one's own faith and making choices other than what others might be able to do, for example. by not allowing ourselves the same freedoms that we do that may not have the same religious conviction, of course, does not mean that one should not defend one's position and participate in the debate. It's not that you should ignore things, even if people think, but you have to know where the boundaries go, and you have to respect the diversity and the choices that people make on the basis of their faith. It's an important guide to say that yes, you should be allowed to make all the choices you want from your religious beliefs, but you cannot make choices on behalf of others based on your own religious beliefs, be it your children, your spouse or others in society. But that doesn't mean religion is private. Religion is part of our society that should be visible and present. I think we should dry up being challenged more by those who believe, more challenged in everyday politics. But why is it that there is a common experience from almost all religious communities about this pressure? One thing is a public debate, but the other is that very often in political discussions, when you meet the other, you have to face it with criminal reactions. Time and again, the requirement to cut arrangements is lifted because we do not like the practice chosen within their freedom of religion. It's to tread across a boundary that I think is unforgivable, if we believe in religious freedom. You could say that religious freedom is fine, you can do whatever you want, but it's not something we need to give financial support to. But once again, as our society is organized, we have chosen to say that one expression of our freedom of religion is that when we give a lot of money to the Norwegian Church, we should also give money to minority religions and others. Then they have an internal autonomy and an internal right to define how and what is in their faith, as long as the limit goes on not excluding or restricting other people's freedom. That's why there was one thing the Prime Minister said in a petition, which may be at the heart of some of the challenges. He said that religious freedom was important, but it also has to be limited by, for example. equality considerations. That's one of the questions I think it's important to discuss. How far should what we think is equality policy go in relation to freedom of religion? Where are the limits going? How far are we going to run the Norwegian Church? I believe that this discussion is important to take, and I believe that sometimes there are many in this House who actually go beyond the limits of what I think is the framework of religious freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e289	Norway is a country where the state is quite religious, while the population is rather secular. The Constitution is based on Christian faith, but the church struggles with Sunday visits. Religion is a private matter. It's not a state's business. Therefore, SV believes that we should continue the track that we have now started, namely to separate church and state. The state can and must think much about, but not necessarily about what is the meaning of life. Full religious freedom requires equality between religions and views of life, and it requires that the state is neutral in religious matters. Religious freedom is also about people's right not to profess any religion at all. This must also be equated with life’s vision and faith. The principle is that church is church, and state is state. Having a state church is just as illogical to me as having a church state. As the Prime Minister said, many religious institutions have a long and sad history of female oppression and oppression of sexual minorities. That's why it's to strengthen the secular common arenas and reduce the power of religion in the state good for the women's liberation and good for the homo-liberation. A strong and public welfare state is simply good for women's freedom. SV wants the most secular common arenas. But at the same time, the right of individuals to express their religion through the use of e.g. religious symbols in the public space. We discussed this long and well yesterday. We want a secular state and a tolerant state. This goes hand in hand. The interpellant has promoted an interpellance that is exemplaryly religiously neutral and exemplary in life’s vision. But in most questions, he and his party fall most often down on the fact that Christianity should have some sort of primacy in Norwegian society, not only culturally, but also formally. Let me repeat that primacy is incompatible with the principle of religious freedom and incompatible with the principle of democracy. Also in these debates the Christian People's Party makes an exercise in appealing to tolerance. Infringement and oppression cannot take place in the name of freedom of faith. Democracy and equality are inviolable rights. Therefore, religious communities have to deal with the Norwegian Equality Act and with the Norwegian Labour Environment Act, as the Prime Minister mentioned in his statement. In the end, while we are talking about primacy and formal rights, it must be allowed to note that the representative Højbråten wants a society with greater tolerance than what is in his own party. Neither I, who is an agnostic – or faithless, if you will – nor Akhtar Chaudhry, the 4th Vice-President of the Stortinge, who is a Muslim, could have held the representative's office in his party, not because we do not share his party membership or his beliefs, but because we do not share his faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e306	It's pretty amazing how we can still see where Hans Nielsen Hauge went. Bedhouses are quite much closer in Agder and west than they are in Hedmark. He didn't take the trip to us. But his migration and counterculture have had a strong impact on the whole of Norway. It is fascinating to read theories in sociology that explain the various historical developments in Protestant areas and Catholic areas – how Luther's focus on the individual reading his Bible has influenced the general school of Protestant countries, and how the theory of Calvin's predestination theory has been a starting point for capitalism: we should not use, we should reinvest, we should live soberly and create new values. Religion and religious directions have had and have an enormous impact on our way of thinking, our language and our development regardless of personal faith. The most visible part of the religious life in Norway we find west and south, where Hauge went. But where in Norway is most baptized? Is it west? No, it's in Hedmark – it's in state church. But in Hedmark, we don't talk about Springlord so often. We don't have the words for that. You're religious, you're pagan, but you're happy in my church. People are happy in the church house, happy in some dear hymns, in tradition, and a quest is often beneath. We pagans are at the bottom of church visits in a year, but we are more often in church than we are in football matches and in cinema. But on the most important days of life, we go to church. Why am I referring to history and Hedmark today? Well, even where you don't think religion is so central, the choices people make show that if you scratch a little below the surface, religion has a very central role for people also in a population that we say has become more secularized. The place of religion in society and for individuals is very central, and when the distances in the world become smaller and the national community more diverse, it demands that as a society we need to gain more knowledge and deeper understanding of the different religions and respect for the position of the other. The religious diversity we have means that all social actors need more knowledge about religion and the importance of religion. It is very easy to go wrong and create unnecessary conflicts if you do not have insight into religious feelings and the power of religious symbols. A minority will always, regardless of what kind of minority it is, be made harder by insults than the majority. To gain an understanding of religions other than one's own, one must have an understanding of one's own tradition. In my opinion, giving people better knowledge of our celebrations, our traditions and the peculiar nature of our history is crucial to how to meet new traditions and outlook on life, which is crucial to how we succeed in integration. It's a fundamental value for a society to protect the right to believe, think and think what you want. I believe everyone in this Chamber will immediately agree that freedom of belief is important. But I've been frightened by how the last year's heated international debate has made it possible for us here at home to have more proposals that may have a detrimental effect on freedom of faith in public space. The idea of banning religious symbols where people travel is not a new idea, but I think it's a dangerous idea. Here in Stortinget, representatives from different parties have put it on the agenda. In a more heated debate on religion where extremists have been dominated, fear is created, and people are crying out for action. My assessment is that the measures that many people have called for will work against their purpose and create a more heated atmosphere, not less. We must pursue a policy that gives people confidence – not that restricts freedom. We must not have a social debate that allows the extremists to get even greater noise into their environment, where the extremists on both sides can caricate a reality that fits their rhetoric but that is not real. Religion and faith have meant a lot to people at all times. Faith and doubt will be where people meet. An active religious policy that facilitates diversity, and where people know their own tradition, is, in the opinion of the Center Party, the way to go – not through prohibitions where religion is pushed further into private space. Having respect for religion is having respect for fellow humans. Religious diversity in a society is a sign of a diverse society. A more diverse Norway is also a more complex Norway. To meet diversity, we all need more knowledge about each other, and not least about what too many define life itself, faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e335	The right to believe one's will is one of the most fundamental human rights. Maybe it's not without reason that when the American founding fathers were to make their Bill of Rights in 1789, it was just to establish the freedom of religion that was fundamental from the first line. Freedom of speech is closely linked to freedom of expression, which lays the very foundation for a free and democratic society. For my part, I know how important my threat is to myself. In the debate on this ban on gaudy crosses, the NRK created an interview with a Catholic girl. They were in a school and asked the girl what it would have to say to her, and she said: If it is forbidden for me to go with my cross, in many ways it will take away some of my own identity. I think the little girl said something very right -- just that threatening and being allowed to believe what you want is part of your own identity. For the Christian People's Party and for the Christian-democratic ideology, this is exactly one of the keys, because we are a whole human being. It's not the material alone – it's that we can get a new car, a cottage in the mountains, and by the sea and new, a nice house – that's decisive for whether we're doing well, but it's just that you have some other needs, some cultural needs, or some spiritual needs. Being allowed to fill all the needs is important. That's why it's incredibly important that we fight to let everyone have that right. The place of religion in society and freedom of trust is something we simply talk about in international contexts. The abuse of that human network may be much higher than one would believe internationally. 70 pst. the population of the world lives in countries where they experience persecution or demarcation when it comes to the exercise of faith and religion. It's about 126 countries. It shows a little bit of the dimension, and it shows how important it is to work for the freedom of trust. And that also means that we have to make sure that what we do here is at the bottom of our trust. That is why I would like to draw some parallels to yesterday's debate on bans on burkas, niqabs and whole-covered garments. Threat and religious freedom will always have to be fought against other democratic considerations. But I want to warn you that as politicians we look at religion and try to define what is right, that it is the state, the public, that is the right authority to define what is right within a religion. Since representatives from the Progress Party yesterday claimed that whole-discovering garments have no hold on the Koran and are only a cultural expression, it can do well to vote, but it does not rock the freedom of belief. On the contrary, it's probably special because of minority groups that we have just that protected in human rights. Other issues that have been mentioned here are, for example: the addendum to the rules of procedure and the treatment of pressure. One could also called Muslim schools, where one sees that parental rights and the freedom of trust are no longer as strong in Oslo. There were both parts of the government party and the Progress Party against the right to start such a school. In addition, one could have been involved in other matters that have been mentioned. But the sum of that is that it seems like a suspicion and a narrowing of self-government and the freedom of trust in a number of organizations. When we talk about the place of religion in society, I would like us to be able to put more emphasis on the positive that is being created, not on suspicion. SV's post now I'm not going to comment so much, but SV's talking about tolerance, and that's important. But I have to admit that I often feel that there is a tolerance as long as one is in agreement. When a person talks about separating a state from a church, I can be very united in it. But the interesting thing is that SV uses the power to control the Church as much as possible. Finally, I want to go into another matter. The Co-operation Council for Creeding and Living Societies has addressed different phases of life and has looked at the need for religion. They include: have entered hospitals and hospitals and taken into account the challenges of deathbeds. We have different religions than just the Norwegian Church, like different trust societies or associations. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister: this is a more and more topical issue. Will the Prime Minister look at different ways of meeting both new religions and faith-based associations other than the Norwegian Church in that phase of life, deathbed, which is perhaps one of the most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e354	Thank you so much for the inter-pellant, which is raising such an important debate. I must admit that I am also very pleased that the Prime Minister has today said that he will set up a NOU committee, which the Left has asked for for two and a half years. We're really excited about that, and that gives us the opportunity to make recordings of it. I've probably grown up in the same tradition as Battle Violence Vedum, in the part of the country that Hans Nielsen Hauge jumped over, and where people have a little more everyday relationship to faith. But I've also grown up with a medieval church, i.e. with a church room where I know that all the important things in the life of all my ancestors have happened for hundreds of years ago. It's happened within that square. Then you can rise above your faith and say that it's also about cohesion, about a cultural tradition that makes my sisters drive little babies in winter cold cars in December just to get baptized in that very room. There's something about meeting these divisions between faith, individual, state, church and other religious communities all the time. What's interesting is where we accept that the limits are going. The left wants to abolish the state church, but we never use the term'secular state'. We use the term "neutral state" because the term "neutral state" means that you accept the faith of the citizens and that it is also part of the public space. But a state should never decide on different beliefs. We notice that people experience hoarseness and sarcasm from school to work, and that there is less and less respect for faith in many areas. I think the big task that a NOU committee gets is to do the legal cleanup and distinguish between what's the state's, and what's the religious community's. Today, we have a mix in many different areas of what belongs to religious communities and to life-viewing societies, and what belongs to the state. This is why it has, for example: important for the Left to distinguish, by marriage, between the legal part and the ceremonial part, as is done in a number of European countries. Then I'll come up with another challenge. We've reorganized a lot of religious education in school, and a lot has been good. But I think we've lost one aspect. It is an aspect of the old Christian field that we have lost today. It really hit me during the debate we had with the Progress Party yesterday, and it really hit me under the articles of the Progress Party today, too, that history knowledge is quite weakened. We might want to strengthen history in Norwegian school if we're going to get back some of what we've lost. We lack understanding of faith and the different aspects when we only have recent history – I have to admit that there is a history teacher who is now speaking. When we only have recent history, it becomes a very seventeenth-century story, a story that just tells us that we've done the right thing, we're the only big ones, and it's just the West's thoughts that are strong. Getting into a larger part of history, including older history, and getting an understanding of and respect for different cultures, is a very important part of this, which I think we have lost with the old Christian science. I think it is important to have a generous funding system for all religious communities. An attempt to prevent religious practice, I think, will be at the stake in relation to a radicalisation of different environments. One day I was on my way to a congregation meeting – I am in the Old Town Congregation Council – and met one of the radical Muslim young boys in the neighborhood where I live. He said, "What are you going to do now?" I said, "I'm going to the community council meeting." So he said to me, oh, is it going to be a politician in Norway and stand for some values, I thought it was ruining your career? So there is an opinion in some societies, especially among young people who are concerned with their faith, that we are a faithless society, without values, without ethics and without morality, and that's what you're supposed to be in opposition to. Maybe we'll show them something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e369	I would like to thank the representative Højbråten for addressing a very important topic. I have three messages in this debate. The first is that God is doing very well on his own. Our religious and life views policy should not be about protecting him or her. Religions are not exempt from the rules of democracy. Even though God manages on his own, individuals who are subjected to oppression and abuse of power in the name of God or religion do not. We must protect the individual, and we must protect the individual's right to practice his faith, to renounce his faith, or to criticize and ridicule religions and views of life. Freedom of expression goes hand in hand. The second message is that both the welfare society and secular Norway are the result of our Christian cultural heritage. The idea of solidarity in the Norwegian labour movement has never been left alone. In fact, it has historically been sidelined with Christian solidarity work in Norway. There was no popular fear when the Church's Bymission was established in 1855. There was no welfare state when the Blue Cross started its work for addicts in 1906. There are many Christian organizations that, over several years of idealistic work together with the labour movement and the Left Party, have laid the foundation for the welfare society that we know today. Many of these organisations still exist, and they are a very important complement to the public welfare offer. In addition, Protestant Christianity has contributed to our having, in spite of an expressed state religion, a quite secular state. When King Christian III of Denmark and Norway in 1537 decided that the Evangelical Lutheran faith would be the official religion of the twin kingdom, it was not a result of the Church's desire to be closer to the state. Rather, on the contrary, the Church has always wanted a certain distance from the state. The institutional relationship between the Church and the state has always been subordinate to the private dimension, where religion and religious arguments today for very many are not particularly central. It has given a large common room in Norway for religious and non-religious, and that is something we have to take care of. It is closely related to the third message, namely that a liberal state must deal with the existence of people who have attitudes and values that differ from the view of the majority. Our whole credibility as democracy and human rights champions depends on it. A few weeks ago, the Free Word Prize was awarded. One of the winners was the 24-year-old Norwegian Muslim Bushra Ishaq, who has stood up for Muslim women through 2009, and for Muslim women to be able to define their own women’s struggle – including in terms of the right to wear hijab. She has told me in some interviews that this has cost. She has received e-mails and text messages that form as hate letters, threats and accusations that she will sneak up on Norway. But the paradox is that those who make up for a change of words in which accusations of sneaking up are given to governments as poorly-hidden arguments against freedom of faith contribute even to the snuff democratization of Norway. In Norway, this suspicion is a far greater threat to values such as human rights and democracy than it is ever going to be. For democracy and the rule of law allow for a very large range of different and conflicting life choices. Those who fight this are also fighting freedom, which it has taken so many centuries to build up in Norway. They fight a fundamental value in Reformative Christianity that facilitates a pluralistic society, and they also fight the same values that they often claim to fight for, namely freedom of expression and human rights. It's very serious. In conclusion, I would like to say that when I say that I am a Muslim, I am often met with a slightly overbearing resistance and an undertone that says that in a free society, up and down, women do not really need religion – that it is superfluous or a survival from a less civilized time. It also says something about religion's position in society today. I wish for a public debate in which not only is religion at its worst discussed, but also ask what religion at its best can contribute to the community today, as it has done in Norway for very many years through the voluntary solidarity of many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e386	That's an interesting question. I am also pleased that we are now going to have a public body to investigate an overall belief and life-view policy. In the question from Højbråten was not mentioning the view of life. Fortunately, it was mentioned in the post from the Højbråten, but I think a little at random somewhere. The same random use of the concept of life views has also shaped some of the speeches later in the debate today. It's unfortunate. It is good that we get a sample that should just equate faith and outlook in the debate on these important issues. It's, as I said, an interesting question from the Høybråt. But I think – perhaps in contrast to the text interpretation my good party comrade Gina Knutson Barstad did – that there is some unsolved question of whether there are religions or religion in general The Hojbråt wants to put on the search light, or whether it is Højbråtten's own religion that the Højbråtten is particularly concerned about. Now, a little independent of it, fortunately, there is a great deal of consensus that it is right to remove the very dominant position that the Church and Christianity have had – and still have in part – in our public administration and administration, which obviously has no connection with what view we have of the place the Church and Christianity should have in our society. A two-year-old newsletter from SV, which I came across last night, gives us a little reminder of the change processes we have experienced in recent years. In a week in June two years ago, we changed the marriage law and the KRL subject, and we decided to wind up the state church. These are changes that are partly supported by the Christian People's Party, partly against the will of the Christian People's Party. We actually used the headline 'Out of the Middle Ages' about these changes to show that there were some changes that really happened in our society. Then the point for us in SV is that this has nothing to do with dechristening. Many would actually say, both in SV and outside SV, that in many ways this change was in a more Christian direction, I think, for example. on changes in the marriage law. There is no dechristening, but a contribution to facilitating what many here have argued for, a more neutral society in terms of both religion and outlook on life. This also does not mean sending out any negative signals about religious activity and life - vision activity. As a humaneist and pagan, I would like to see a society that actually has more religious activity than it has today. I would like to see a society that is more value-based and with more debates that are based on using reasoning from both faith and from the point of view of life. Had Højbrätten had consistently talked about religions and views of life in his post, and not just religions, the Højbrätten would, in my opinion, have made a more interesting contribution to the debate that we are now going to have, not least related to the selection work that is now to be started. So must I in the Christian People's Party myself. The ideal that I believe all those who have spoken in the debate so far have agreed – the ideal that the Højbrått provides for our society – a pluralistic society that will open up in a warm, trusting and generous way for all kinds of religions and for all kinds of views of life, shall not apply in the Højbråt of its own people. Here is the narrow religious path. What kind of signals does this send? Is the Højbrått ideal for a living democracy, or ‘the pluralist society’, which is the concept of the Højbråt itself using in its question, that religions and views of life should organize themselves in their own parties? Is that how we build the so-called pluralist society? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e401	The song "Your Thought Is Free" is sung all over the world. We have a well-known and dear relationship to it, not least in the Norwegian Workers' Party. But I also think it is a good example of how Norway is a country in the world and how the world has definitely come to Norway. It also represents a symbol of the debate on freedom of belief and freedom of expression. «Your thought is free» is a universal song, it is sung all over the world, and takes up the freedom of belief, freedom of expression and the idea of what you want – that is, fundamental human rights and a fundamental freedom for the individual. Looking at the trends in globalisation, I think we in Norway must also have a debate that prepares for even greater diversity when it comes to faith and opinions. That is why I am also very pleased with what the Prime Minister is saying today about a NOU that can in a way prepare the basis for the prospects also in relation to globalisation. Although Højbrätten's interpellation is basically about freedom of belief in Norway, I also want to draw up some international perspectives, because we really cannot isolate one from the other, nor in this matter. Therefore, Norwegian development policy and Norwegian foreign policy have had religious dialogue as one of their instruments when it comes to working with human rights – freedom of belief, freedom of expression and freedom of organisation, which is also part of what we need to talk about here. Religious dialogue is in a way part of Norway's contact with many other countries and is part of our work for peace, reconciliation and human rights worldwide. Supporting these inter-religious dialogues both at home and outdoor is a way of contributing to the reduction of conflicts both outside and in Norway. That is why interreligious dialogue is an instrument at home, by supporting projects related to the Inter-Church Council and the Islamic Council of Norway. It is very important to meet the need for closer contact between religions. The debate on freedom of faith is very important. We must have the capacity for dialogue and compromise and have a fundamental human vision based on tolerance for other people. I think the representative of Åland said something that is interesting today. The representative of Åland said you have to be safe on your own identity in order to meet the new one. Then I ask myself the question, what is it? What is the Norwegian identity today in the society we live in? Are there ski-walking mountain tourists over Hardangervidda – on silk, hopefully? Is it brown cheese? Or is it that there are actually greater differences in Norwegian culture depending on which part of the country you live in than of which religion you belong to? I believe that in the Norwegian social debate, we often see examples of how differences in religions are highlighted as a major challenge, and that they may also be over-dimensioned in the social debate. Because if you look at the differences, at least between North Norway and South Norway, in tradition and culture – several have also been in Hauge’s footsteps – it shows that the cultural differences between regions in Norway may be greater than they actually are when you look at the core of what it is to believe and what it is to exercise their faith. Finally, I would like to emphasise the point that there are people in Norway who are subject to double discrimination. That means they're e.g. are disabled and do not have access to religious buildings, are homosexual and are also discriminated against, or, for that matter, are women and encounter a type of double discrimination in the exercise of their faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e414	Questions have been asked about why the Christian People's Party wants to address this debate. I think I'd like to answer that by pointing to the brilliant article that Hadia Tajik held, which just addressed this: How can religion best contribute? I think it just shows that this is a perspective where we want to say: how can we sympathize with religion's place in society in a good way, and take care of the traditions that we have? I also want to point to another good post, as Marianne Aasen thought. I was not necessarily in agreement with all the conclusions, but it turns out in itself how important this debate is. 17th May train in Heggedal: Of course, we must respect the parental selection's decision, but is it that we want the traditions that have influenced our nation for hundreds of years to be removed, and then in a way we should just keep the life-vision-neutral traditions, the secular traditions? Is it positive if we make all these days neutral, my question is. Another question that has not been mentioned, but which could have been raised in the debate today, is the cleaning services. Is it a tradition? Yes. Of course there should be a freedom for this, but should we take away those traditions, or do we want to take care of them? The same is true of Laila Gustavsen: What is the Norwegian identity? Yeah, it's skiing, it's eating brown cheese. I totally agree with that. But part of our identity is related to experiences of threat, and that tradition must also be allowed to live on. Then probably part of the Norwegian tradition in the future will be to visit the mosque, and then it will also be allowed to be part of the identity. But let's take care of the traditions that also have life views as part of it, and not just point to the neutral, the secular. Then we become a poorer society. I think that we have been reconciled when it comes to state-church, has been a step forward. There we have managed to preserve The Norwegian Church as a life-viewing society that promises to be treated as a life-viewing society in a good way, but also the tradition that came to Bohemia a thousand years ago. I think political Norway has done well. I thought, however, that what we have experienced in the debate on how much pressure is going to be is a bad example. It's a question that, for me, it's quite natural that the trust society has to be allowed to decide. And then I found it difficult when the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party compares the Norwegian Church with a state office or a directorate. I believe that neither the Norwegian Church nor the Directorates around the country are particularly pleased with that. I want to point out what journalist Dag Kullerud wrote in the evening post related to this very thing. He said the following: ‘When a country’s government spends time and effort on the question of where a bishop is going to live, it immediately gives a picture of the government’s ability to prioritize matters. More importantly, however, it reveals an absence of principled religious thinking. [[...]] In most countries in the world, the government’s decision in the press case would be seen as an offence.’ Yes, the government has chosen to turn this issue into a regional policy issue – what should have been a religious policy issue. But I think this debate has been uplifting. I look forward to the work that the government has now started, and the debate itself is so important in just this kind of matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e436	Let me first thank my fellow representatives who have taken part in the debate, for many wise and good speeches. I think it has been very, very inspiring to listen to the posts that have been. I'm going to link some comments to them until the end. Several have emphasized the private by having a faith. At the same time, I think it is important to distinguish between what is personal – of course, faith is a personal matter – and what is privatised. If you go into that ditch thinking that faith is a purely private matter, you will quickly get into trouble when you discuss the implications of faith in the community. Most religions have a golden rule that goes most to sit in other people's places and act so that what you do can be a norm to everyone. Christianity has a strong social profile, and the story we have here in Norway reminds us not least of Hadia Tajik in his excellent contributions. I believe that some of the problems we often encounter are due to a lack of knowledge and insight, which the head of the church, education and research committee, Marianne Aasen – and also Trine Skei Grande – was involved in. That's why it's important that we build that knowledge through school, through an insightful public debate, where we don't label all the values and opinions we like, like untimely and unwanted. This is why it is dangerous when it comes to proposals to ban religious schools, as the tolerant SV has come with and adopted at their national meeting. It's dangerous when you try to ban glamorous religious symbols, as a play came about from the Progress Party, which they fortunately corrected later. It's an attempt to clear faith rings from the public space, and it can't be done. These are also examples of the same when UNE sends asylum seekers home with a message that you can be converted Christians, only you hold the faith for yourself when you come to your home country. It is also an expression of a lack of understanding that belief is something more than a personal matter. It also concerns relations with other people. I will leave the question of prohibition for the rest, even if I find reason to remind you that SV was also involved in the agreement on state and church, where we state: «The basis of value remains our Christian and humanist heritage.» Also SV participated in the agreement on the purpose paragraph in school and kindergarten, and I think a few of the contributions gave the impression that one wanted to ban also the Christian People's Party. I don't think that's going to work for SV, either. The debate shows that there will be many opportunities to discuss concrete follow-up to religious policy. But we agree that we need a religious policy, and as Hadia Tajik said – not for God’s sake, but for man’s sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e449	I have rarely participated in a debate in Stortinget where the interpellant has received so much praise for the interpellation. But that is well deserved, because we have had a debate on basically important issues and a debate that is suitable for an interpellation and a bit of a thorough discussion in the Stortinget. The discussion itself has value in developing our ability to understand and deal with the issues we have discussed. I believe that the debate shows that there is a broad consensus on the fundamentals, that we are calling about freedom of religion, that we are committed to safeguarding other important rights in Norwegian society, such as: freedom of expression and respect for diversity, for different cultures, traditions, life views and religion. So far it's simple. The problem arises when there is a conflict between the different considerations and we have to balance them. Then I very much agree with those who have underlined that when, for example. There is a conflict between religious freedom and the emphasis of the Norwegian society on equality, we need to have a very high threshold to use the law to regulate what we don't like. We also have to accept what we don't like. We have to accept people who stand by and practice things that we completely disagree with. It is one of the things that is democracy, diversity and freedom of religion. But at the same time, and that's what's hard, there are some limits. I just want to spend some time illustrating the dilemmas, to show that we're also setting some limits, and that there's actually a broad consensus about that as well. There are some obvious things. We mean, for example: Everyone that we can't use religion as an excuse for coercion or sexual mutilation. We all agree on that. There is also quite a broad consensus that we, for example: shall accept that belief and life-view societies may discriminate on the basis of sex and sexual orientation, but not unlimited. You might say no to hire a female priest or a pastor with another sexual orientation, but you can't discriminate, for example. a janitor or another person who has a different type of position in the same religious community. Similarly, we have now had a discussion in relation to Catholic churches, where the obligation to sever lies ahead of the obligation of professional secrecy in the case of written matters. There is also a broad consensus on this in Norway. So we set limits. It is precisely where these limits are to be set, which is the difficult part of this debate. We're going to have a lot of discussions in the future, we're going to have a lot of discussion about how we're going to get the best of religions. I look forward to the work that the sample will do, and that in itself becomes important, because it will invite a broad debate on these issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e460	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e476	Health professionals, including doctors, are the most important specialist health care resource. A good working environment is essential to enable them to do a good job and to provide safe and sound patient care. Over a long period of time, it has been a challenge in hospitals for doctors to be employed on a large scale in temporary jobs. We have received information about that 50 pst. all hospital doctors are temporarily employed and the number of medical specialists in specialisation who are temporarily employed is 90-95 pst. On average, hospital doctors are temporarily employed until they are about 41 years old. With the health enterprise reform in 2002, the state became almost monopolistic in operating hospitals, which means that the State has a special responsibility to meet the needs of the population for hospital services and working conditions for its employees, because one does not have other labour markets that act as a genuine corrective. This means that the employee does not have the same opportunity to change employer if he or she is dissatisfied with the employment conditions they are offered, and this is, of course, reinforced by the fact that the employer also has a monopoly on special education. The insecurity created by temporaryity in shorter and shorter Vicariats will have an impact on recruitment, work form and patient safety. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman referred to hospitals as a grievances in his annual report of 2008, following several cases in which female doctors completed their work during specialisation as a result of their becoming pregnant. Through the ‘Good Watch!’ campaign, the Labour Inspectorate has criticised hospitals for several types of failure, including: with regard to the involvement of employees and the influence over their own work situation. There is also information that temporary hospital doctors feel the pressure of job sessions far beyond what is normal in society. Health professionals in temporary positions have a more limited opportunity to criticize management or to report on non-functional matters. Doctors who depend on the extension of the vicariate in order to complete the specialisation will be reluctant to provide information that can be perceived as difficult to deal with for the same management who will also consider whether to renew a vicariate or to obtain a new vicariate. The scope of temporary posts has an impact on the transparency, safety and accountability of the work situation. Openness of hospital conditions, including critical procedures, systems and dispositions, is fundamental to patient safety. Hospital owners must provide a basis for safety in the workplace as a basis for transparent and transparent situations. The Medical Association has made proposals on how to organise specialist training, so that doctors in specialisation can get permanent employment, while preventing the emergence of plugs in the system. In Sweden, permanent jobs are provided, but subject to ‘movement’ in order to gain experience in the various specialities. Multi-site service can be solved through so-called educational packages. The previous job instructions agreement, which applied until the spring of 2002, provided a permanent basis for all of the Group 2 institutions from Sogn and Fjordane and from the north. This shows that it is possible to obtain permanent jobs as a general rule while at the same time taking care of the other important considerations — flexibility, recruitment throughout the country and education. I'm not saying there's a simple answer to this challenge, but the government has to take responsibility for starting a dialogue with the Legislature to find good solutions. On a written question on 18 December 2009, High Representative Sonja Irene Sjøli addressed this challenge. Then the Minister of Health replied: «The challenges and needs for changes in the field of doctors are initially naturally related to the dialogue between employers' and employees' organisations.» [[...]] This was answered by the Minister of Health in December 2009, after the employer’s association Specter in a joint report with the Medical Association dated 27 October 2009 said: ‘Scientists have stated that this is not a ‘negotiating theme’ between the parties. This relationship must be made possible by DLF. list with the authorities.’;» Specter therefore assumes that the question has to be addressed with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We have been informed that since January 2009 the Medical Association has asked for a meeting with the Department by letter and e-mail, and that recent feedback has been received that the Department will not meet with the Medical Association during negotiations, although this is not the subject of the ongoing negotiations. It is worrying that the ministry does not follow up on the many requests made in a matter of such importance. This situation is very clear to those in temporary jobs. This contributes to, for example: not receive feedback there and there if one does not have the qualifications to become a specialist in an area. But you get a very clear signal at the place where you get specialist training, because you won't be able to continue where you've got your specialty. This means that the temporary position scheme, which one sees – at least in part – is justified by the fact that one should be able to assess the characteristics of the specialisation, is in reality having the opposite effect, namely that one does not take a settlement there and then, but only forwards the candidates. Candidates end up with a specialist approval, but do not get a job at the most recognised places, and thus do not siles out of a speciality, but get to continue elsewhere. One, as I have mentioned, has seen examples of women who become pregnant while in specialisation, not being offered a permanent job. One has many examples of trusted voters who are told that if they take up critical issues, they can look forward to a future in the institution in which they are elected to trust. One sees that temporary employment is now down for as short periods as three months. The pressure is put on employees that if they write overtime when they are in this type of job, they will also have no future at that department or institution. One also sees that many of those in educational positions who are in temporary positions in many institutions actually have a primary responsibility or a great responsibility for what is the main activity. This means that many people make the statement that they are actually self-educated by the institutions. This whole situation contributes to low demands on employers’ awareness of these educational positions and around the entire organisation of specialist education – both because they can use temporary jobs and because they are in a monopoly situation and therefore have no competitors who will be able to hire or provide the same offer to this highly educated group. There may be a situation that can go on for a few years, but with the new generation of young people growing up in Norway, where very many from before have an international background and very many also have an international perspective on their professional career, the Norwegian health system will no longer be able to operate as if they were in a monopoly situation. Many of the best will never accept the type of undeclared employment, especially not linked to research positions. They will then apply to the rest of the world, and we may risk continuing this practice, so the consequence is that our best medicine does not stay in Norway, but is looking for a career in countries that have completely different terms and conditions of pay and employment from what we have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e512	Good cooperation between the social partners and the authorities is the basis for a well-functioning working life. Permanent employment shall be the general rule and temporary employment shall be limited. We've established that in the government platform. Of course, this also applies in the health care system. The structure and addition conditions of the hospital service have evolved over a long period of time. The design of the contract work has essentially been based on mutual interest between employers, workers and authorities. Temporary jobs, especially for specialist doctors, have been part of such contracts for many years. Medical positions in hospitals have traditionally been divided into superiors and assistant medical positions. Consultations have been regular and in practice reserved for trained specialists. The assistant medical positions have been designed for doctors engaged in specialist training. During the 1960s and 1970s, job market imbalances increased, leaving the finished specialists in subordinate medical positions. They did not have access to permanent positions of excellence and thus blocked new doctors who wanted specialist training. Therefore, the so-called structure of employment agreement was concluded between the country and the employers’ and employees’ organisations. The Agreement, which entered into force in 1986, provides for regulated conditions for the addition of doctors in educational positions and describes in which cases temporary contracts could be concluded. The agreement was not continued with the health enterprise reform in 2002, but the Ministry assumed that regional health enterprises would continue to allocate this to permanent and temporary training positions. The Ministry has adopted the legislation on training of specialists, on a proposal from the Medical Association and suspension from the Directorate of Health. The content of the training is described in detail for each speciality, including: it concerns the need for practical service. The service requirement is 4 to 6 years, one part of which – usually 18 months – must be served in a ‘Group 1’ hospital. Mandatory services may also be required in a subject other than the main one. The requirements require many doctors to perform as an assistant doctor in at least three different departments or hospitals during their specialisation period. Then I would like to stress as clearly as I can: Of course, all the employment at our hospital should be in line with the current law and the contract work. I expect regional health businesses to be in line with the new EU Labour Environment Act of 2006, where the starting point is that permanent employment contracts should be concluded. However, in some cases, temporary additions may be made, and these can be seen in the law. In certain cases, this provision allows the employer to conclude employment contracts for fixed-term additions. This could be done, for example, by: are employed by temporary workers, but also by employment in so-called practical work. There are different conditions that lead to doctors being in temporary positions at hospitals. Health enterprises must assess such conditions as employers when entering into employment contracts. The need for the temporary addition of doctors to educational positions has always been justified by the need to ensure the training capacity of new doctors. Another justification is the appropriate distribution of a required number of medical specialists regionally and nationally. In the governance message of regional health enterprises, I have clarified that they should facilitate a good working environment for health enterprises and that the human resources should be used in a good way. The Ministry is now undergoing specialist medical training. This is in line with the 2009 Stortingen Decision in the context of the Stortingen treatment of changes in the Health Personnel Act. The scheme of doctors' turn is also under assessment. These reviews could provide a basis for any changes in the job structure. In this case, changes in the job structure will have to address the competence needs of each healthcare provider for a period of some years and ensure that doctors receive specialist training. The interpellant suggests that there is a risk that doctors in temporary posts will not notify management of any mishaps in the workplace, due to insecure employment. There should be no doubt that the requirement of sound services also applies to doctors who are in practice or under specialist training. I do not accept that health professionals who are not permanently employed perceive that they have a different obligation to be professionally and ethically sound than those who are permanently employed, or that they are treated differently from those who are in a permanent position. Let me make it quite clear: both the Labour Environment Act and the Equality and Discrimination Act prohibit discrimination and discrimination on grounds of sex. Poorer and more precarious working conditions resulting from pregnancy and childbirth run counter to the legislation. I am familiar with the mention of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman in the report ‘Praksis 2008’, which points out that many requests for pregnancy discrimination in particular have come from the health sector. Examples are from the hospital sector, and the Ombudsman concludes that hospitals have acted contrary to the Equality Act. I would like to stress that the law is to be observed. Pregnants must have the same protection as all others. I can assure you that as the owner of the regional health companies, I will continue to demonstrate that both the Labour Environment Act and other legislation are to be complied with. I also want to add that I understand that the addition to temporary posts during specialist training today can be experienced as a burden on many medical families. The Ministry of Labour now has an enquiry from the Academics, where the Academics have asked the Ministry of Labour to explain the interpretation of this term, including: in relation to the use of temporary employment for doctors under specialisation. The Labour Environment Act is the responsibility of the Minister of Labour, and the request of the academics will therefore be answered from her department. I want to have contact with the Minister of Labour about this. I understand that being an employee in a temporary position can be burdensome for the person involved and his or her family – no matter what profession you have. It is an objective that all employees should feel secure in their work. I believe that, in the future, we need to find schemes that balance in a good way the need for foreseeable employment for doctors in specialisation, the design of specialist rules and the need to ensure adequate training capacity in specialist training.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e540	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is still somewhat unclear to me if the Council of State believes that today's situation, where 90–95 pst. by doctors under specialisation are in temporary posts, in line with government policy, that permanent employment is the general rule. The crucial factor for the way in which a person approaches this question is whether or not a person approaches the question on the basis that today's situation is not acceptable, or whether or not a person has the starting point that only a person will work for some improvements. I believe that today's situation is not acceptable, that it is not acceptable that it goes beyond the quality of our services and beyond our ability to recruit good people for medical specialisation in Norway. This means that the general rule must be that you are in a fixed position. So one has to adapt the system after this. When the Council of State says that the ‘interpellant suggests’ different relationships, I have to say that this is based on quite broad contact with people who themselves have experience of what it is like to be in this situation, concrete feedback on how this is experienced in everyday life. I find these feedbacks so serious that it is the whole basis for addressing this interference. I believe that the Minister of Health has a clear, self-responsive responsibility to address this matter and start working on how to get out of this situation. And it's not a responsibility that can possibly only be transferred to other departments. So I would like to ask the Council of State in the further debate to clarify whether she believes that the situation today is acceptable or not, and not least to clarify the uncertainty that has arisen from her reply to a written question in December, as she pointed out that this is the responsibility of the parties, which is contrary to what the Specter himself says, namely that this is a responsibility that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should take. Is this the responsibility of the Minister of Health or the responsibility of the social partners? What is the position of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e553	In my post I tried to give the background of why we are where we are. It is also the case that the Medical Association in the past maintained that these educational positions should be temporary, in the interests of educational capacity and streamlining in the system. It is a clear objective of the government that we should strive for the most permanent employment possible. I think most people see that in some contexts you have to have temporary workers, for example. in the case of maternity leave. For some educational positions they may also be temporary. What is very serious in this interview is that the fact that personnel – doctors who are in temporary jobs – are perceived to be being treated differently at work than permanent colleagues. It's very serious, because it's a relationship that is absolutely unacceptable. When it comes to converting part of these jobs into permanent jobs, there is something I want to look very carefully at. At the same time, we also have to be able to have the perspective that we do not create a situation that led to this job structure review that happened quite many years ago, where we experienced that there were some blockades in the systems because everyone entered fixed positions. Finding a good solution to striving for the most permanent jobs, while at the same time being able to obtain the flows of a course of education and ensure that we train specialists throughout the country, is important here. That's what I want to look at. I fully agree with the interpellant that having a good working environment is a prerequisite for good quality in the sector. That's the way it works in all workplaces. It is not least critical in the health sector, where it is actually about saving lives and treating people. As I also said, I have a great deal of understanding that temporary employment is becoming burdensome. That is why I will also continue to work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e568	The interpellant addresses a major problem that he himself specifies is not the good work life. I fully agree with that. It is not so easy to defend the reality that we have also received feedback on. It is a little special when the country itself is an employer. Maybe that's the most special thing. There are more problems with temporary employment, job protection, including in relation to pregnant women and those who are qualified to trust. A safe working environment gives predictability and well-being, and not least stability. Being a permanent employee contributes to it. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that temporary employment should be exempted, and not the general rule. For the Workers' Party, there is a rule that should also apply to doctors. The same applies to the protection of pregnant women. However, as the Council of State, as well as the inter-pellant, refers to, historical agreements – which are well-founded here in the past – that have made the health service have such temporary employment. That the Council of States refers to, emphasizes the very thing about getting people around, about getting their education. However, that said, the 2006 Labour Environment Act should apply. It's quite flexible if it's only allowed to be used. There may be temporary staff under certain criteria, while at the same time ensuring that the training capacity is maintained. The law gives opportunities, but it tightens up. I'm still amazed at the interpellant's concern about this particular group. Is it only this group that the interpellant is concerned about regarding temporary employment? As I know, when we took over in 2005, there was an opening for several temporary employees from the Bondevik II administration. It would give more possibilities for such employment as has been recorded here. The red-green government changed the law before it came into force and before anyone saw the consequences of it, because we didn't want the development of a working life that the interpellant describes from the medical world, in all sectors. There is also now an ongoing case in Stortingen which further restricts the possibility of temporary employment. I'm assuming that the Right is going to vote for it in line with this interpolation. I also remember that it is good to remember what was clear from the civil government: undermining the normal working day, opening contracts with up to 13 hours working day, and 60 hours working week without overtime. This would allow for greater use of temporary employment, a weakening of job protection and the influence of the trustees. What has changed for the Right since 2005? I don't think they've changed their mind on this, but it might be nice to know. Maybe it's about employment in other companies, but not in health. The right-wing parties, and in particular the Advance Party, with whom the Right wishes to govern, believe that initially the employer and the individual employee are equivalent parties, and they must have a contractual freedom which it is premature for others to interfere, i.e. without the use of the LO or the tripartite cooperation that we in the Workers' Party believe is so important. This resulted in the Right voting against the proposals we had on temporary employment, and they have voted against most of the proposals that the red-greens have had to promote better working conditions and counteract social dumping. No, sometimes a little wonder about the things that are coming, and the contents of them. But I'm very pleased with the Council of State's approach and answers. I'm sure she's going to follow this up, because it's clear that there's cause for concern. In line with what I have now said, there is a reason why we should take a close look at it. In line with our policies, we need safe jobs, we need the most staff in all positions, and action should be taken to get as many permanent employees as possible and clean up the culture that may have developed, and that I understand the Council of State is going to look into. As with other employers, the State must comply with the laws and regulations in force, whether in terms of employment, working time or employment protection. Predictability and security are important. Together with the flexibility provided by the Labour Environment Act in terms of temporary employees, we can achieve this by using the law, including in terms of educational capacity and health care demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e596	Let me first commend the representative, Bent Höie, who addresses a very important issue. It is essential that health services, like all other sectors, have access to temporary posts. This is important in order to have an effective and healthy health system. Flexibility of temporary employment is considered by the Progress Party to be a necessary mechanism in many sectors. Nevertheless, it has never been the intention that temporary employment should be used over several years as compensation for permanent employment. The employees are undoubtedly the most important resource in the health care system. Ensuring a long-term and secure framework for employees will help to facilitate the recruitment of professionals. In particular, this will contribute to the maintenance and further development of competence, represented by the medical personnel. In addition, it may be essential for a positive working environment among employees to have fewer temporary jobs. This again could have a positive impact on the quality. Many local hospitals report problems in several cases involving the recruitment of some specialists. If this is due to employment-related practices, I do not know, but this is a problem that health businesses need to look at. The size of the population has dealt with several issues in this spring that problem the situation related to adverse health incidents. The Party has been committed to ensuring both good control practices in health businesses and adequate supervision. In particular, we have called for the creation of reporting systems, which help to alert several unfortunate incidents. There is a possibility that health professionals who work without permanent employment over time have a higher threshold for reporting such events than is desirable. I want to challenge the Council of State to launch a study to show whether this is a health business issue. There may be reason to question whether the reason for such widespread use of temporary employment is a consequence of a steady tightening of the specialist health services purse by the government. With constant restrictions and virtually no predictability of transfers from year to year, it is a demanding exercise to employ people in permanent jobs. In this case, too, the policy of the Progress Party would address the challenges both through long-term budgeting and through sufficient means to maintain a level of operation that would help to eliminate health cows. Health, like many other sectors, needs to complement manning during periods. In these cases, temporary employment is necessary. However, there is no reason for this to help people go to work for several years without a permanent job offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e613	I must say I am a little surprised after following the beginning of this debate. The interpellant takes up a specific question with serious figures as the basis, and the Council of State answers essentially with excuses, as I see it, and reminders of the naturalities we all know, and of course we have not grasped the interpellant debate. The representative Mandt followed up on attacking the Right's policy on matters of temporaryity and the legality of temporaryity and the principles of it, which is a completely different debate, namely how to deal with it in society in general. None of them have responded specifically to what we are going to do with this situation. What has been addressed in this interview concerns the obvious use of temporary employment beyond the intention and, in all likelihood, beyond the legality. That's what's called warning. It's amazing – I wouldn't have thought that for the second time in a couple of months it's the Right who's standing on the speaker's chair in this room and addressing this in terms of state jobs, which have temporary jobs far beyond what can be expected, and far beyond what one could believe was the intention. The government is not in charge, does not notify measures, and is thus described in reports as the worst in the class. Now, I guess that's not quite right, either, because they've created a separate class for government employees, while in private business they have to do it in a completely different way, and they're doing it. So the government, which has the greatest opportunity to facilitate it, has not grasped this in its own house, and now it concerns the health care system. What does it mean for the health care system when you have such a high level of temporary employment? This means, first and foremost, the uncertainty of those who are to enter these posts. New trainees with a good desire to work, want to get started, simply do not dare to apply for these positions, for how to establish yourself with family and handle study debts and all this with the great uncertainty about positions? It makes you get the lack of renewal and recruitment of the good heads. So the Council of State has been a little surprised that these employees do not feel that they have the same opportunities at work. Well, I guess it says itself. At least it's not those who might have half a year left by an exposure that gets trusted elected. It is not those who are involved in the organisations and are thus fully included in the working life. They constantly have the temporaryity hanging over them. It's a reality that the Council of States must also take over. There is nothing to suggest that there should be such a volume of temporary health care workers, and in this case the specialists. There are other countries that have found good solutions to this. The Council of State points to the need for management to intervene around this in the various institutions. All 50 pst. by the cancer researchers at the Radium Hospital do not have a permanent job. These are concrete numbers, which are also confirmed by the management up there. On the question of whether it is acceptable to go 15 years without getting a regular job, the head of the institute answers the following: After four years they are entitled to a permanent job, but when the money is not there, what? Whether it can be called illegal or not, I cannot answer. This is a system that applies to a large extent. – So those who are trusted by the Council of State are going to clean this up, which says that to this extent this should be cleaned up according to the law. I had expected the Council of State to be much clearer that this is a major problem: we must address this. We don't want it like that. The state will not take the lead as an employer with such an employer policy, and we will recruit the best minds and provide the best working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e637	Bent Höie addresses an important theme, a theme that concerns basic professional rights. Temporary employment is a problem that affects individuals, who create insecurity and who testify to a lack of respect for the individual's freedom from arbitrary employment. Many debaters have described this in a good way before me. It was this way, as Sonja Mandt described, that one of the very first steps taken by the red-green government in its time after the 2005 election was to ensure better protection against temporaryity and actually reverse what was going on in the wrong direction after the previous government. Temporary employment is a method of giving the employer additional power and placing the employee in a situation where one feels more reckless and more afraid of losing a job. Security of work and income is important to all of us. Therefore, SV is a strong champion to strengthen these rights, not weaken them. That's exactly what's going on right now, not least through the practice that we're getting documented here today. Once more, the government has taken hold. It is very much appreciated, because the use of temporary employment that you now have – I am glad that the Council of State also recognises – can hardly be in line with the intention of the Working Environment Act. So I also have to say that there's actually something over this interpellation. The right and right sides are hot defenders of temporary employment. If we go into the right-hand side of the page, they actually write: ‘The freedom of choice, creativity and efficiency of the new labour market must not be restricted by rigid demands and paragraphs. The restrictions on voluntary overtime and the prohibition of temporary employment must be removed.» The batch program is not worse. Here the Right states that it will extend access to temporary employment. As you can see, this debate is similar to many other interpellation debates – I have begun to understand after a few months at Stortinget. The opposition criticises the position and government for not being red-green enough, for not even clearer and stronger realization of its red-green project. In particular, the contributions from Morten Stordalen and Svein Harberg were interesting examples of just this phenomenon. The extent of this problem will increase dramatically if Right Medicine worked. That's exactly what we can read from the quotations that you've come up with here. SV assumes that the Minister of Health gives clear signals to the companies, spectres and hospitals, both continuously and through the mission documents, and is so pleased that the Council of State so clearly said that she had just ambitions to do so, and had set in motion an important work to clarify what is actually the situation, and what is the reason why we have got this situation, which none of us really like. Luckily, we see that the Right Party and the Advance Party don't like it either when they see it in practice, that's just something they like when they write their program documents. SV has challenged the university and higher education sectors to discuss this and take collective responsibility for the same temporary problem that we find in the university and higher education sectors, as we see in the hospital sector. It is true, as Bent Höie and several others here have pointed out, that not least the hospitals themselves are served, and in many ways in the future depending on the decline in the use of temporary employment. It is then asked whether the various hospital establishments together should see that they have a common challenge to address together, in order to get this in place, so that there are good and attractive jobs that can provide good working conditions for the best, for this profession. Then we sincerely hope that during the rest of the ageing period we will have a similar debate about all the other professional groups that are currently in exactly the same situation, i.e. excessive temporaryity and a trend that actually goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e661	In Norwegian hospitals today there has been a culture for a large extent of temporary settings among the Lige. Investigations told us that a total of 50 pst. of all hospitalised persons are temporarily added. Of specialisations, the total is 90-95 pst. temporarily added. I mean this is the number and the percentage that it's almost hard to think about in today's labour market. At 90-95 pst. of specialisations do not have a fixed position, and that 50 pst. In general, hospitalisation is in temporary settings, showing an unculture which is, in short, totally unacceptable. On average, lay goes to hospitals that are temporarily added until they are 41 years old. Is it a working life to provide this group? One thing is certain: the center party is no less critical of temporary additions than the right hand side. Because while the Right actually looks positive on softening decisions about temporary additions, our starting point is that one is essentially going to conclude permanent employment contracts, and that one only in some cases is going to be able to apply in temporary settings, where this is stated by the law. The protection of position is universal and the right to a permanent position shall apply as much to young people as to immigrants or any other employee group. The law states that the positions needed to cover daily operations shall be covered by fixed additions. I cannot understand why assistants do not belong to this category. Assistants are absolutely necessary for the day-to-day operation of hospitals. I don't understand that we almost have to have 100 pst. to provide temporary assistants to ensure the training capacity of new leagues or to provide a basis for the insertion into a fixed-term position of specialist training within the framework of so-called practical work. The centre party will be ambivalent as to the fact that today's add-on practices in hospitals are not acceptable and need to be changed. We need to do this, among other things. ensure by instructing healthcare professionals, it must be clarified in the mission documents, and we must ensure their job protection in the review of specialist training of doctors, which the Ministry will now be working on. We need a dialogue with the Medical Association, and we need annual reports on progress. When individuals on average do not get a permanent job until they are 41 years old, it goes without saying that this creates great challenges for them. Especially will it be tough for female assistants who want to have children. One would think that pregnant women today are sure a good job protection in Norway. But this is unfortunately not the everyday life of many younger leagues today. The gender equality and discrimination authorities point out that they have received many requests from women who have completed their work as a result of pregnancy and childbirth. The interpellant also notes that temporary settings over such a long period of time may increase the risk of unreported adverse events. This is a topic that is actually difficult to talk about, and it is, of course, quite legitimate and politically correct to state that unfortunate events should be reported, same as what. But it is also not difficult, with all one knows about the culture of warning, to realize that safe working conditions and fixed settings are fundamental to promoting a good warning culture. This is our job to facilitate. We need to recognise that a workplace characterised by unsafe working conditions and the fight for fixed settings, with all the dishes that this brings, will be able to weaken the culture of warning about bad conditions. It will ultimately be able to compromise patient safety. The reality description that the interpellant sketches is real. In this case, the State that is an employer must therefore enter and contribute to a solution, so that Employer responsibility is taken seriously. It is therefore great that the Minister of Health today is so clear that, of course, work environment law should also apply in the health sector, and that this matter will be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e681	I too would like to thank the interpellant for an important debate. The permanent position is and must be the general rule of the labour market. I am pleased that the interpellant puts this on the agenda, so that we can end the unfortunate practice that has developed in the hospitals. It's unfortunate in several ways. First of all, it is unfortunate for the individual doctor who lacks predictability. It's economical, and it makes family life difficult, because you don't know if you have to leave to get a new job and thus take children out of both kindergarten and school. It may also be problematic to have children because there will be a risk of discrimination in terms of leave and re-employment. This is unfortunate for the working environment of the individual hospital ward. In a hurry, colleagues may become competitors instead of partners, because they may have to fight for job vacancies or fight to keep the position they actually hold. It is particularly serious that the use of temporary employment may impair patient safety. Temporary employees may be afraid to tell about critical circumstances or unfortunate events. The continuous replacement of staff weakens the continuity of patient treatment, and it also hampers the building of skills and the development of professional environments in the departments. The Christian People's Party supports – like many from different parties – a demand that permanent posts be set up for doctors in specialisation, as is clear in Sweden. Another issue that arises is that the Christian People's Party has previously mentioned the need to have a match between the designated medical homes and the number of doctors in the hospitals. According to Dagens Medisin in August 2006, the hospital broke the law by recruiting more doctors than they were allowed to. It was shown in 2006 that some enterprises employing 40–50 people are overly ill, together with nearly 200 doctors at national level. After the Christian People's Party pointed out this fall in 2007, the Ministry of Health and Health required all health businesses in the country to establish a sample to approve all newly created jobs and jobs in the health professions by 1 May 2008. However, in a letter to the Department earlier this year, the Medical Association points out that there are currently many posts in addition to assigned posts, while keeping several posts open. This is also a problem for temporary jobs. Many of these are temporary. They also say that many health businesses experience the system of granting pensions that is so burdensome and bureaucratic that they simply do not relate to the established formal structure. This is alarming and gives cause for concern. Does this mean that it hasn't improved on the three years that have gone on since we first pointed this out? In this way, it is also assumed that there may be both management and management problems related to employment in the hospital sector throughout the country. All parties have been served with cleanliness in the conditions of employment in hospitals – permanent or temporary jobs. In its contribution to the Working Environment Act today, the Council of State showed that temporary additions are exceptionally permitted and in what is described as practical work. I think a lot of the problem lies here. Because it is well that doctors in educational positions, which the representative Toppe was also involved in, are defined as being in practice, which means that regional health companies actually look after them temporarily, because here in the law is the home to be used. I have a question for the Council of State – whether the Council of State believes it is right to define doctors in specialist training positions as being in practice. We're talking about highly educated staff, men and women in their 30s and 40s, who actually do an incredibly important job, and then you get to define these as being in practice. I think that the solution might be to tell regional health companies that doctors in educational positions should not actually be defined as being in practice, and ask the Council of State if it is possible to specifically consider whether there can be a solution. There will then be a law on working conditions which, in any case, will only exceptionally be able to take up temporary jobs in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e709	It is an important interpellation that Bent Höie has traveled, and he has given good reasons for the importance of fixed-term employment and limiting temporary employment. I agree with the representative, Mr Höie, that doctors are both important and deserve security in their work situation, but it must also apply to all other professional groups in this country and in hospitals. But maybe it's that way that it has to hit the members of the Medical Association, before the Right sees what kind of problem this might be? I agree that the use of temporary employment is unacceptable in the public sector. Therefore, it was important for the government to set up a new work environment law when we took over after the 2005 elections. But the government has also submitted a bill to Stortinget, Prop. 104 L for 2009-2010 discussed by the Labour and Social Committee on how to tighten up the use of temporary employment. It's going to be very exciting to see which line the citizens want to lay down at this time. What we already know is that you open up general access to temporary employment throughout your working life, and then it might be slightly different what legal protection, protection, the different occupational groups will have. In practice, however, those who are weakest in the labour market will be given even less protection, while those who are already strong must be able to cope well in a market. The government proposes to introduce an annual discussion obligation for the employer, we will look at strengthening the competence of the Labour Inspectorate to impose that type of discussion, and we will also clarify the four-year rule on what might result in deductions when calculating it. What's interesting is that when this discussion is going on – and I haven't seen any signals of Rightness engagement, except for the special role of doctors – you like to push immigrants and sick people in front of them because they're going to have the opportunity to try their way into the labour market. At the same time, it is said that an A and a B team in the workplace, where there are people who are already exposed, should have a lower level of job protection than others. That is unacceptable policy for the government. With regard to the public sector, which I was in the middle of it, I share the concern that the interpellant has expressed. We'll have to go in and look at the Civil Service Act. Perhaps the problem is not the opening of temporary employment, perhaps it is a cultural problem — a problem of attitude — among the spectres and others who are set to manage public employers’ responsibilities. In spring, the government will also present a communication on the working environment. At least the Labour Party fraction of the Labour and Social Committee can now announce that one of the things we want to go through and look at is: Is there a need to tighten up the provisions of the Civil Service Act on temporary employment? Is there a need for clarification of the law, if it is that Specter and others have a problem, or do they have some bad will to interpret what is going to be there, and are they slightly exposed to the political signals being given? Or is it a cultural problem, by the fact that too many people, including in the public sector, are struggling and living in a temporary working life, with the consequence – as Bent Höie himself was involved – of perhaps being afraid to warn about critical conditions at work? It's precisely these arguments of Bent Höie, and the need to have a strict use of this, that touched a social-democratic heart. If you are not able to deal with these issues – and it may seem that Specter and others are unable to take on the responsibility of managing public responsibilities in a good way – then in the ultimate sense questions arise about how we choose to organise public responsibilities. I fully agree with the interpellant, Bent Höie: there are many more who need permanent employment. Then I hope for good drag help also from the Right and the other bourgeois parties in the Labour and Social Committee when we treat Prop. 104 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e724	I am very happy that the Right sees the problems associated with temporary employment. In this debate, it has been nice to hear that the right actually uses the left-hand arguments: there is a lack of recruitment; there is unforeseeability in terms of both student loans and rents; there is quality of services; and that is the working environment. And then the Right will rule. They'll control the system that they're otherwise busy telling us on the left that we're too busy for the benefit of the individuals. We're concerned with both the individual and the system. We want working life to be for everyone. I would like to point out a moment that has not been particularly evident in the debate, and that is the integration perspective and the consequences of temporary employment associated with it. We see in the interpellant that the interpellant points to this with a gender perspective. The consequences for women are quite clear here. The same thing I'm sure would have been the case for other people who, for some reason, have to be temporarily away from work, whether in the case of illness, disability or other conditions with which they themselves have little control. The working party is concerned with the whole and the coherence and equal opportunities of all. That's why we're concerned with both the system and the individual, and therefore the government is working to reduce the negative consequences of temporary jobs. That is why we are changing the law of 2005 that citizens had adopted, which would only further reinforce this problem, even in other sectors. That is why we are committed to good leave arrangements for women and men in relation to parental leave schemes. There is a need for stronger frameworks around the distribution of leave time, not, as the Right wills, a non-management of that part of family and work life. I hope now that the Right has seen the light, or, rather, has seen the negative consequences of temporaryity for all employees, for all production, because it goes beyond quality, it goes beyond recruitment, it goes beyond the working environment, it goes beyond predictability in terms of professional careers and economics, and so it goes much beyond equal opportunities and equivalence in employment and professional life, for women and men or others who have problems working and being in employment. I'm glad the Health Minister has given these signals here today. It needs to be seen in an overall perspective in terms of equivalency and equal opportunities for all, and as part of a wide range of work environment measures. I also expect the employers responsible in the public sector to receive the signals that have been given politically at the overall level, in relation to the government platform that we are to govern.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e740	A number of contributions, especially from representatives from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, show that it is clearly not possible to see the difference in the Stortinget as a legislative assembly to make general laws and our responsibility to discuss the role of the State as an employer. It is quite right that the Right wants a labour-environment law that opens up more to temporary jobs in general, given the very simple fact that the Norwegian Labour Environment Act systematically contributes to keeping people without professional experience who are weak in the labour market, outside the labour market, and prevents them from getting a job experience that will help them into a permanent position. However, there is a completely different discussion than the discussion about people with a long-term education, who are going to work in public, where the state is an employer, and where the state is in a monopoly situation – and use the monopoly situation. We've heard that between 50 and 95 pst. are in temporary positions in hospitals until they are an average of 41 years old and in research positions until they are up to 50 years old. Then it is alarming to hear that, on the one hand, you are so very proud of the changes made to the Working Environment Act, while, on the other hand, you remain the degree system defenders in the area for which you are responsible, as an employer, as a government – you are the one who holds the ownership of hospitals and tolerates people in temporary positions to such an extent, over as long as this is the case. The Council of State says that it is not acceptable for those in temporary posts to be treated differently. No, of course it is not acceptable, but it will not end with the unacceptable treatment of those in temporary positions in hospitals, without a different form of employment. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the Council of States follow up and take responsibility for the situation in which you are. Then you can imagine that you don't want to listen to the opposition, that you don't want to listen to our advice. But then I strongly recommend to the Council of State to take on the post that the representative of the Central Party, Kjersti Toppe, held. It was a very wise post. I hope that the Council of State can be as clear as the representative Kjersti Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e749	There has been an interesting debate, a debate with great consensus. In fact, I feel that no one has said that they want a large share of temporary jobs, so I believe that the interpellant has received a lot of support. But this has a story, which I have also explained, and it has actually also been a change in the wishes and decisions of the Medical Association, especially with regard to the educational positions. In my first two posts I said that I would take this up and work on. There are two major changes that are now taking place in the context of education, which makes it natural to take it up. We now have a review of the entire specialist training and a review – at least a proposal and a debate – of the change in the tour scheme. This will lead to changes in positions and job structures, and in this context we will also look at how we can combine having educational positions with a better predictability. There are many reasons why there will be a lot of temporaryity. I'm not going to defend the temporaryity, but I just want to say why it's like this. When you are in specialist training, for example, you have to be in several different places, different departments and perhaps different hospitals. This means that you might have to have temporary workers, at least in some departments, to fill in. That's one of the reasons. The fact that there has been a lot of leave access can be another reason. But I fully agree with everyone who has suggested that it is important to continue working in order to get these jobs more into permanent jobs. Then it may be necessary to see it in a larger context, including: where the employment should be, but there is something we have to get back to. On the part of the Progress Party, it is stated that the reason we had many temporary posts was the unpredictable economy of health businesses. I'm going to reject that on the most definite, that's not the reason for temporaryity. There has been predictability in the economy, if you look at this historically, at least as long as it has been a red-green government, since 2005. But to make it even clearer one more time, we're still working on this. There is a great deal of consensus that we should have the most permanent jobs in the state and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e762	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e778	In 2008 and 2009, the specialist health services of district psychiatric centres for adults with mental disorders were supervised. Health surveillance in the counties supervised 56 of the DPS in the country. It examined how new patients were evaluated and prioritised, and how they were investigated, treated and followed up. Supervision also looked into whether internal control in centres ensures quality and proper operation. The oversight indicated failure in one or more areas in 44 of the 56 DPS examined. Many DPSs lacked a system to ensure that applications and referrals were caught and evaluated by a specialist as they entered. Deficiencies were identified in the assessment of the right to necessary health care. In some cases, treatment deadlines were set and feedback was sent that did not take into account the individual needs of the patient. During the Committee’s visit to the State Health Authority, it was noted that the group of patients most exposed to the violation of their rights was drug users. However, the group of people with mental illness may also appear to be a vulnerable group in the exercise of rights. The numbers seem to be pretty ugly. I want to add that I am actually so realistic that I understand that we will probably never experience that the supervision no longer finds faults and deficiencies – but these figures are unacceptablely high. State health surveillance considers it serious that some DPS do not ensure that serious sick people have good enough services to offer. Patients must be informed that they are entitled to the necessary health care and of their rights in the event of a breach of the prescribed treatment period. There must be a good offer available to them for whom there is an extra urgency. The State Health Authority considers it serious that some do not ensure that patients who have been judged to have the greatest need for health care and who should be given priority are caught and treated as necessary within the prescribed time limit. In several places, there was no established practice of what to map, or the diagnostic tool to be used. Several of those who had this in place, didn't use it. Some DPSs even rejected patients on the wrong basis. The consequence of this may be that the process of making a diagnosis is delayed, or that it becomes incomplete and incorrect, which in turn means that the patient does not get the help he needs. It will often be able to cause additional suffering to the patient. The supervisory report concludes that lack of management and management is essentially the reason for all the deviations and breaches. It is in principle the management of each health business and regional health business that is responsible for catching up these errors and ensuring that they are corrected. But the Minister of Health has the overall responsibility that this is actually being followed up. To date, state health surveillance has concluded that health businesses have not used the option of correcting and preventing failures of other DPSs after any of the DPSs has been addressed and corrected. These findings are particularly serious in view of the fact that previous nationwide supervision has also revealed failures in the right to necessary health care. I repeat what I have said on a previous occasion from this interlocutory: The state health care claim is that errors would no longer have been committed if you learned from the mistakes you had previously committed. According to NRK Hedmark and Oppland on 26 May, a medical officer has reacted strongly to the continuing rejection of psychiatric patients he believes needs urgent help. He now filed a complaint with the Hospital Inland to the Health Authority. The doctor has on several occasions sent patients to hospital wards in Gjøvik and Reinsvoll because he thought they needed emergency accommodation, without this happening. He believes that it is because of the capacity this happens, but that they cannot refuse to accept patients, as this conflicts with the law. Even the Hospital Inland believes, in connection with the proposal of the Progress Party to ensure the provision of age psychiatry and the competence of the NKS Klöverhagen, that they have built DPSs in all regions with both daily services, outpatient services and outpatient clinics. There is clearly no correlation between the health business’s view of supply and capacity and the view of patients and those working in health care, as the findings of supervision actually confirm. As I see it, this is just another example that we did not fully achieve the psychiatry plan, and it is therefore an additional concern from the Progress Party that we are now in the process of cutting off the offers around the country. Could this mean that next supervision will show even worse numbers? So my question is: what concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that patients' rights are respected?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e810	Ensuring the availability of high-quality specialist healthcare in the field of mental health protection is a high priority. Psychiatric health protection has been strengthened and modernised in the last ten years, and we have built up a decentralised offer with 79 district psychiatric centers covering all the municipalities of the country. That means the structure is in place. I'm very pleased with that. But the quality of the offer varies. It is clear from the Health Inspectorate’s summary of nationwide supervision of district psychiatric centres in 2008 and 2009. There should be good quality in the patient-treatment meeting. This concerns everything from the first meeting, the investigation, the diagnosis, treatment and subsequent follow-up. The Health Authority report identifies major weaknesses in management, competence, prioritisation and, in particular, documentation at the district psychiatric centres. I think this is very serious. The report was an outrageous reading, but it provides us with an important basis for further development of district psychiatric centers. So I also know that there are several places, and it is important to emphasize, very good work is done with the individual patient. But we can't settle down on that. I have therefore asked regional health companies to explain how they will follow up the findings of the report. They'll do that by 1 September, and after that I'll be more specific about the follow-up. The specialist healthcare service has approximately doubled the mental health treatment capacity since 1998, the year before the mental health escalation plan was implemented. At the same time, unfortunately, many people still feel that they are not getting the help they are entitled to under the law. Many people experience that waiting times are long and that it can be difficult to figure out in the system. Another important area in which many experience failure is in the communication between treatment and patients and treatment and relatives, and there may also be a lack of communication and contact between the different services. It is therefore essential that we continue to work to strengthen both the availability and quality of healthcare in mental health. This objective is reflected in several of the approaches that governments are now taking to continue their mental health efforts. The District Psychiatric Centres should be further strengthened. I have given a clear indication of this in the mission document to regional health companies both in 2009 and 2010. Regional health establishments shall carry out the necessary transition from institutional treatment to a more outlying and outpatient offer. I have requested that the DPS be upgraded professionally and manned so that they can meet the general needs of mental health protection. Furthermore, I have signaled in the mission document that the role of the hospital department should be clarified so that they can perform peak functions. The resources shall be dimensioned between district psychiatric centres and the hospital departments in line with the leadership and the services shall be adapted to the needs of the population. I assume in the 2010 mission document that regional health companies are familiar with and follow up on the Health Authority report on district psychiatric centres. Regional health establishments shall ensure that the public is provided with high-quality specialist health services. Quality improvement shall be a continuous process which must be anchored in management at all levels. This is a clear requirement in the mission document, and there should be no doubt that quality work is a management responsibility. Regional health enterprises are responsible for the use of national guidelines and guides in the provision of services. The competence of the DPSs shall be built up. From 2009 onwards, regional health establishments are required to report on the quality, competence and capacity, including the number of annual work of psychiatrists and psychologists. Of course, I follow this up through the business meetings with the regional health companies. The Directorate for Health is responsible for setting up national guidelines and professional health care guides in the field of mental health protection. This has a high priority. The Guide to District Psychiatric Centres has given clear indications that the decentralised mental health protection should be further developed. Prioritisation guides for mental health protection, both for children and young people and for adults, were published in 2009 and 2008. These supervisors are an important support for doctors and psychologists in setting the right and treatment time for the individual patient. National guidelines exist in a number of fields of psychiatric treatment, and several are under publication. Guides provide recommendations on the maximum duration of a patient with a certain diagnosis to wait for treatment and the type of treatment that should be implemented. The regional health enterprises, the Health Directorate and the municipalities work together to introduce new guides and guidelines. Extensive empowerment in the field of mental health protection has been implemented in the framework of the Mental Health Appeal Plan. Recruitment of personnel is not least significantly improved. This applies to specialists in both psychology and psychiatry, and to university-trained personnel. I have asked for feedback from regional health companies on how they follow up the Health Authority report. All regional health establishments have taken the deviations identified very seriously. Health enterprises are now working systematically to close the deviations, and they have put in place measures to prevent and learn from what was revealed. In this context, incorporating good practice is important. Building a nationwide DPS network with 75 new institutions has been a major national promise. A future structure for a decentralised specialist healthcare service has been established through the Road to Mental Health Plan, but the report confirms that we still have challenges. We have to recognise that it takes time to put in place full staff and competence across the country, and it takes time to improve the distribution of resources between DPS and hospitals. Patients with mental illness shall receive high-quality specialist health services. It is essential that the referral is assessed promptly, that the evaluation is professionally sound and that the legal certainty of patients is ensured. I assume that regional health companies follow up on the Health Inspectorate's report, that the results are used to learn how to avoid failure, and that they benefit from good examples, so that the DPSs are further developed in line with national leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e836	I would like to thank you for the answer I have received. Actually, I'm quite happy with that answer, because the council said itself that she thought the report was very serious, and that it was intimidating reading. It's kind of reassuring when you respond to reports, because that means you take things seriously. I also think that the Council of State was quite honest – and that is very good – that although this is a high priority and the structure is in place, there is a lack of quality. I also see that the Council of State has asked health companies to report on how they will follow up the supervisory report and close the deviations that are. And I hope that the Council of State will also follow the closure of these deviations, and that that work will be followed up to the goal. It's important that the DPS learn from the mistakes that are made in one place and that you learn from each other. It showed that the supervisory report has not been done so far, so it is important that we get it in place. The council indicated that she would like to know more about the matter after 1 September, and I am attending that follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e847	This is a very important area for those patients around Norway who need help, and it is also important that we as a society are able to provide these patients in a good and dignified way. That's why it's so important that we've spent over 9 billion. kr to build a good and decentralised infrastructure. We've spent 6 billion dollars through the escalation plan. NOK in order to improve the operational offer. Then we see that we still have challenges. At the same time, I would like to stress once again that there are many good patient meetings between treatment and patients, and that is what is important – that the individual feels cared for. Then it's just as not good enough when it's revealed that there's so much deviation from reporting, from management, from competence, and all of the things we were dealing with. But as I said, we have an ongoing dialogue with regional health companies about this through the mission document. We have also clarified that in the current year, and, as I said, we get feedback after 1 September on what individual health businesses will do, and we can go through more specific areas in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e856	Thanks to the interpellant who takes up such an important matter, which I think everyone is concerned about. The quality of mental health services is important, and I am pleased that we have supervisory authorities that control those health services. The goal of supervision is to expose the deviations so that we can improve and learn. The Health Inspectorate's report shows the same thing as we see in the evaluation of the Mental Health Progression Plan, that we now have a well-developed service, but that we have a great potential for improvement in quality. We've had a lot of focus on getting the services out in the districts, near where people live, and we've got that. The focus now is to get the right skills and enough professionals in the DPS, while developing good guides that are used throughout the country. There are several alarming deviations in the report that we must clearly take seriously. It has also been done by health companies, as I see it, and a review of the Health Inspectorate's website shows that many of the deviations have been treated and that action has been taken. The supervisory authorities have considered the measures put in place to be adequate and the supervision has therefore also been finalised. It shows that enterprises have taken the Minister seriously by following up the findings of the report. I am pleased that the Council of State is clarifying, both here and in the mission documents, and has been very clear that the DPS should be upgraded both professionally and manned. Of the 56 inspections carried out by the Health Authority, only 12 were without anomalies, and that is far from what we can be satisfied with. However, there are 26 DPSs that have taken action that the supervisory authorities have considered to be sufficient, and the supervision has ended, as I said. It shows that it is possible with the current framework to put in place procedures and systems that prevent us from being diverted like the ones that are presented in the report. I am sure the minister will follow it up with those health companies that have not closed their deviations, so that they can do so immediately, and so that they can report it in at least by 1 September. Those measures show that our systems are working. But as politicians, we need to keep working to get an even better mental health service, as the Council of State outlines that this should be done. I also believe that there is a need for such debates as we have here today, debates that put mental health on the agenda – the desire for a better health service for mental health – that question the things we are doing and that actually push our policies further. And once again, I want to say that the interpellant has taken on something that is very important, because we can't say we're satisfied until we've made things work the way we want to. And today is not all that we want. Finally, I would like to say that I have gone in and looked at the inspections that have been in my home country, Vestfold. Two inspections have been carried out. One oversight was without anomalies, and the deviations were closed at the other. The supervisory authorities have considered the measures put in place in Westfold to be sufficient. In Westfold, we have our own healthcare company within the psychiatric sector, and it is also easy to check that the money goes to what it needs – that is, outside the somatic area. I think it's a good and tidy way to organize the health care companies in psychiatry, so I can just recommend it, because we see that there works the psychiatry well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e875	I would first like to thank the interpellant for taking a concrete supervisory report from the Health Authority up to a debate in Stortinget. I think it's a positive development that we've seen in this ageing period that several of the Health Authority's reports are being debated in the Stortinget, both in inter-pelling debates and in the form of questions. I hope that this can help to increase the weight and status of the work of the Health Authority, not least linked to the follow-up of the Health Authority’s reports, not only in the institutions and businesses to which the report relates, but also in similar health care establishments, which have something to learn from the shortcomings and shortcomings revealed in institutions other than those to which the specific report relates. Let's do a thought experiment. If it had been discovered that 15 out of 28 DPS had no budgets for which the economy was run, had no control over whether the money was spent for the purpose of the business, and did not have an account showing what the money had been spent on, I think that the attention of the health company's board and management had become significantly stronger than it had when the supervisory reports were about the same conditions, but not about money, but about people. That is, in fact, what this report shows. It shows that one does not have an overview of patients’ health care needs and that one does not assess whether the patient is entitled to health care. One does not have a system that detects whether a patient is being treated incorrectly or whether you are being treated correctly. Nor does one control whether it is the right patients to receive treatment in relation to priority. It is the responsibility of the board of directors and the management of the entity. This means that the board of directors and management of the undertakings must use the reports of the Health Authority in a completely different way from today’s work of their board of directors, asking for a follow-up to the reports, checking that the work is done, and spending as much time on the board meetings and management of the activities to demand the quality data that will tell about patients’ rights, the quality of services and the safety of services being followed up, as a user to control whether the economy is being kept. That one doesn't have sufficient priority for so many of our DPSs shows what we on the Right have raised on several occasions, namely that patients' rights are being undermined and manipulated in very different ways in our healthcare. Not to have a priority is, in reality, not to follow up the individual rights of patients, for this is a system that will then lead to patients with a greater need for treatment having to wait longer and longer without an individual deadline based on their individual situation, while at the same time using resources on patients who are less in need of treatment than those in queue. It's not in line with the Storting's intention in terms of patient rights. I hope that, in the future, we will have more debates in Stortinget, which are based on the work of the Health Authority, just to raise the awareness of how the work of the Health Authority is being used in our healthcare system to avoid errors, and that one is not waiting for faults to be discovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e886	I would also like to thank you for an important interpellation, and I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer. I think these recurring issues we have about people who have rights and don't get them fulfilled, are going to have to trace us to a slightly bigger discussion of what governance methods, what organisational models we choose, and what kind of philosophy we have for managing welfare services. I think we've gone too far in the idea of "New Public Management" in a lot of the management of these services. I think that the post to the representative from the Right in a way showed very clearly that the boards are becoming more concerned when there are problems with money than that people actually don't get healthcare. We're at the nucleus of something there. I came a little late for the debate because I met with the patient representatives. They kind of have the other side of this case. The Health Authority is in charge. What patients can report in their Annual Report 2009 is that they have the most psychological health concerns. There's more there than in other areas. It is about all the different themes, from mistreatment to lack of treatment and deadlines — all of them, but it is therefore more relevant in this area than in others. Some of the most important patient representatives write in their annual report, and as they also told us that we were lucky enough to have this meeting, one of the problems is that when mistakes are discovered, the organisation does not learn about the errors. It's kind of either a personalized case or something that's being treated at some level. But it's not culture to learn from the mistakes that are being made. They also write in the annual report something that I think has spread like a culture, and it is that when you make a mistake, you regret the user's experience of it, but not the error. I think it's a uterus, which has spread in many places, that you're sorry for the individual person's sense of having been in a tired situation, but not really for what you've done. Patient and user representatives also state in the report that they ‘are concerned about the lack of willingness of many service providers to learn from their own mistakes and those of others’. Having structures that do this in a proper way, and that help you get a culture that focuses on doing the right things, is important. The second thing they point to, and I think it can also help make it less wrong, is to have very good information for the users – an information that users can understand and that in some way becomes part of the quality assurance of the treatment procedures that you actually receive. I think this is very important throughout the healthcare system, especially important perhaps in the field of mental health protection. So at the same time, they say something that I also think is very relevant to the group that needs services from mental health protection. A large number of patients receive services from several departments, and they are calling for a concrete allocation of responsibility for coordinating the provision of health care. We see this in the public sector, we see this in the case of families with disabled children, and we see in a lot of areas that many people need help from more. This coordination – the individual must in a way be a little ‘Fraken Detective’ sea and run around and coordinate the public sector – is an additional burden for people who are ill beyond any limit. It does, I think, happen more errors than it would have to do, and I believe that the health care system in view of the resource use there would also have made a huge profit on it if someone had done this. Because I think there's a lot of resources now spent on some kind of round dance that's too unplanned and uncoordinated. So this is important from how to treat the individual patient who has not received the treatment he should have, to the very big system thinking around it. I am very pleased with the signals the Council of State now gave, and for how seriously she takes this message from the Health Authority. We have to put this next to what the patient and user representatives say, and then we have to look at it from the governance structures down to the learning structures and what culture it is that gets to live in these organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e905	In 2008 and 2009, the State Health Authority carried out a nationwide oversight in the district psychiatric centre. For 75 p.m. oversight revealed anomalies. The overall findings were that there was a lack of effective internal control and that little systematic review and evaluation of operations had been established. All the professionals work out and treat, but there was no established system or practice in which non-specialist quality diagnostics and treatments were done by non-specialists. In the review of journals, many DPS found a lack of structure in the journals and that the treatment course was too poorly documented. Findings and deviations that were pointed out had no connection with the size of the company or part of specialists added by the individual DPS. That there is a breach of health legislation requirements by two out of three district psychiatric centers, corruption and government must take the most seriously. This gives rise to concerns about the quality of service provision in the field of mental health protection. It is therefore very good that the Minister of Health today ensures that the report is followed up by healthcare professionals, that he is being taken seriously, and that the deviations are being closed. The Minister of Health also stresses that district psychiatric centres should be upgraded both professionally and manpowerly. There will be a further shift from institutional provision to decentralised services, strengthening both the availability and quality of mental health services. Work on the creation of several national guidelines and professional guides is also a high priority. The quality-building work outlined here by the Minister of Health is right and necessary, and I believe that it provides a good basis for an intrusive quality lift in the field of mental health protection. So write to the Health Service that they have received positive feedback from the various DPS that the companies have worked constructively to close the deviations after the final report was sent. That's positive. However, the Health Authority also wrote that there seemed to be little or no transfer of experience between the different DPS from 2008 to 2009. In 2009, the oversight found the same permanent areas of failure as in the previous year, within the same healthcare establishment. This is worrying and, in my view, shows a lack of leadership responsibility. Because there's something that needs to come out of this supervision, it's just that the health care system needs to learn from its own mistakes, and that one is working together to improve the quality. And then we need to ensure that health professionals in their follow-up to this report create systems that ensure the transfer of experience between the different DPS – and not just close deviations on each one – to ensure that errors do not occur in the future. I will conclude by saying that, in order to ensure the best possible functioning district psychiatric centres, it is also necessary to strengthen the psychiatry supply in the municipalities. As many as half of those currently admitted to treatment in a district psychiatric centre could, instead, be helped in a municipal service. It shows the need to continue the decentralisation of mental health protection and the continuation of efforts directed towards prevention and early diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e920	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a good interpellation. The offences detected by the Health Inspectorate in their supervision of district psychiatric centres are not only consistent with what the user representatives, as Andersen’s representative, said, but also with what the Riksrevision presented in the autumn of 2008. There they wrote about the specialist healthcare services offered to adults with mental health problems. The national audit found that the treatment capacity was not sufficient. There was a lack of professionals a number of places. In 2008, the Riksrevision also considered that many of the clinics surveyed provided insufficient information on the outcome of assessments of patients and insufficient information on patients’ rights and complaints. They believed that this led to patients not being able to take care of their own rights. This is not only contrary to the legislation, but also to the objective of establishing the user perspective for the provision of services. The Roadmap for Mental Health was a key objective of developing cultures and attitudes with a focus on the user perspective, mastery perspective, overall and cooperation. Rehabilitation of mental health services has obviously been challenging, and much indicates that it is still demanding. Recently, Health Fonna received strong criticism from the Health Inspectorate for the long-term mistreatment of a woman. The supervisory report mentions offences, serious professional failure and a rooted culture. Members of Mental Health Haugesund were not surprised, and they hope now that the case will lead to patients being taken more seriously. In particular, lack of user involvement, extensive replacement of treatment staff and poor follow-up after discharge have been problematic. One patient says the following: The worst thing has been that they haven't listened to me. A municipal doctor at Karmøy, who is working with Health Fonna, points out a lack of cooperation in that they have received feedback on the non-compliance messages they have sent. He believes that this could indicate poor cooperation between specialist health services and community health services, and that there is a threat to the quality of treatment. He also says that decision-makers are not notified when a patient is outsourced and transferred to outpatient treatment. Extensive cooperation between levels is beneficial for the patient's experience of a comprehensive patient offer and improves the quality of services. Yes, that's absolutely necessary. Health oversight reveals many aberrations. At eight out of ten centres, patients do not get the help they need. The director of the Health Authority believes that many must have slept an hour. He believes that many employees are doing a great job, but that it is on the management and owner's side that it fails, as the representative Toppe also did. I mentioned earlier this year with the Council of State that mentally ill patients experience that the specialist healthcare service says no to accept them. They are totally rejected and receive neither investigation nor treatment. They never come on any waiting list. When both permanent and community psychologists seek assistance in the specialist health service because they need more skills than they currently have locally, it is very serious that this need is not met. The Council of State's answer was very positive, and I am pleased with the Council of State's answer to my written question on this, where the Council of State also said this was not acceptable. The Christian People's Party considers it to be very regrettable that the Roadmap for mental health was not continued when it expired in 2008. The evaluation of the plan showed that we were not in target. That is also confirmed with the Health Authority reports. We have proposed in Stortinget to reintroduce the earring. I know it's not useful to say it several times from this pulpit, but I'm still saying it: I think we should still have. In particular, I fear that the transformation of mental health services that was taking place, especially of attitudes and cultures, does not just stop, but in worst cases reverse. Let me sincerely hope that I am wrong. Even today we read in the newspaper – or yesterday it was well – another case of rejecting a sick patient – which the interpellant himself had in mind. Finally, I would like to say from this pulpit that of course the Council of State gets 100 pst. support from the Christian People's Party for following up on the Health Authority's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e952	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it is quite delicious to have debates where there is a great deal of consensus on the subject and what we want. It's not that often we have it, but it's okay to keep it in between. Questions can be asked about whether health businesses are being given the economic opportunities needed to follow the good intentions of the state councils and the wishes of the Stortingen for mental health. I'm a little concerned that the tight economy can provide a reduction in offers. I think the employees want to make good and proper offers. If employees feel or feel that they themselves are not given the offer they should, it is a burden. It is a burden to be at work if you feel that you are not doing a good job, and that affects the working environment. We can quickly get into an evil circle where quality is deteriorated rather than improved, and we have to make sure that doesn't happen. I am pleased that the representative Karin Andersen took up the ombudsman's claim that you do not learn from their mistakes, because that is exactly what the Health Authority has also said. Then we have to have a greater focus on this. We have to remember that mentally ill people have bigger problems than many others in yelling loudly and demanding their right. Therefore, it is so important that such breaches are closed, and they remain closed, if it is possible to say so. We must never forget that the goal of the Preservation Plan for Mental Health was to enable people with mental disorders to live the most normal life of participation, freedom and mastery. This requires that we follow up on the Health Inspectorate's report and facilitate the provision of appropriate and good services throughout the country to the DPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e964	I want to start by stressing something that I think should be unnecessary. It was said by the representative, Höie, that perhaps the Health Inspectorate's reports were not taken seriously enough – or that the companies did not – and I think that is actually very wrong. In any case, I take the Health Inspectorate's reports very seriously, and even if they are bad – like this one, which shows serious conditions and deviations in relation to how to operate them – I have to say that at least we have to use these reports to improve and correct the mistakes that are being made. At least I see it as absolutely necessary, and I also have to say that I have such confidence in the boards around the companies that I think they take this very seriously. I don't think anyone's going to know that you're going to drive so much in violation of what's in force. Then there are many things that have emerged during the debate. Let me just take one thing first, that goes on resources, because it can be close immediately to thinking: "Yes, do you have enough money to implement what you really want in mental health, in mental health care, both in municipalities and in specialist health care?" I would like to say that during the period of the escalation plan, which has been a huge escalation plan for both the infrastructure, the construction of district psychiatric centres and the operation, there have been far more than double the number of people employed in childhood and youth psychiatry and also increased greatly in adult psychiatry. 20 pst. The cost now goes to mental health protection, and, as I can see, figures suggest — at least from 2007 — that almost one-half of all annual work was in the field of mental health protection. So it's spent considerable resources. And then there's a lot to go on in this area. Several people here have just said that they need to learn from each other, use the good examples, have competence transfer from the different DPSs. I told you there's 75 of them -- that's 79. It's clear that then there are many within each region. The transfer of competences, the use of good examples, the transfer of experience from those who do well, to those who this time don't do so well, is important. This is what many people have been involved in — the cooperation between the local health service and the specialist healthcare service, which is not least important in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e975	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-28.ana.ud1386e988	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
