ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e43	The representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 12.15 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 3:30 p.m. and continue beyond the regulatory time. 16 until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e63	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 90 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from main speakers and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e74	Let me just start by thanking the entire Committee for a good cooperation in the budgetary process. It's always a demanding round, and we've done it a good way. Let me go to the contents of the budget. This budget that we are discussing today, which is about the responsibilities of the Municipal Committee, large and wide, shows very clearly the differences between us in the governmental parties and the right. Where we want to ensure district development and the possibility for people to live and work across the country, the Right Party and the Advance Party will cut off support for food development, so that people move south instead of staying where they prefer to live. Where we want to pursue a social housing policy, the Progress Party clearly refuses to pursue a social housing policy and believes that it should be completely abolished. It's cool when we see that there's more homeless people in Oslo, while the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing house shark business there, and they sell houses away. Today, even someone on the radio said it was so bad that people felt that it was easier to get hold of their heads by going to prison than by going to the municipality. Where we achieve good results in international surveys by providing early work and kindergarten space for all, early work at primary school, with several hours of free lessons in the school leisure system and free core time for young people in the Groruddalen, now also extended to Bergen and new areas in Bergen, so that several young people in strokes with a high proportion of minority students have the opportunity to learn Norwegian by going to kindergarten. All this bet we have here. At the same time, we experience that several of the parties will cut off the school leisure scheme, in the offers we have, relating to free homework. I think it's the wrong policy, and it shows the differences between us and the right. Where the government will take international responsibility and conduct a fair and legal refugee policy, the Right and the Advance Party will prevent people fleeing Somalia, Iran and Eritrea from being allowed to stay here and instead leave the responsibility to take care of these refugees to poor countries such as Kenya and Pakistan. This is an unsolvable policy that we do not agree with. Where we want to strengthen local democracy and give the municipalities more and more opportunity to govern themselves, the Progress Party will remove local democracy and let the state govern the health home structure, the school structure and take responsibility for every smallest county road, instead of leaving the job to local elected representatives – they believe that it is the state that is to take over the funding. Let's do the opposite. We strengthen local democracy. We're increasing the free income of the municipalities by 2.75 billion. kr, in addition to the additional billions coming this year. We strengthen the possibilities for municipalities to provide more nursing homes and to achieve the objectives we have for building several nursing homes and homes, including through the amendment of the legislation covering the municipalities already in progress. You could say the billions are hailing. But instead of discussing billions, it's most interesting to discuss how many people there are to make sure to contribute to better well-being. It is true that when the Right, Left and Christian People's Party ruled for four years, there were 9,000 new people in the municipalities. There are 9 000 new people who helped people in nursing homes, at school, in caring tasks and in all the important things that the municipalities are doing. Over the course of our years, 49,000 new people have arrived. 49,000 new people – there are kindergarten assistants, preschool teachers, teachers to help our kids achieve better school mastering and better reading results. At all: it's all the things that make Norway's municipalities good places to live. It's important to provide the opportunity for people to live everywhere. The most important district policy we pursue is to provide a good local economy. It ensures the possibility for people to live all over the country. The second most important job we do to make it possible for people to live all over the country is to ensure the development of businesses. I would like to hear what the Right-Rapporteur from Værøy thinks about the Right cut in the economic development. I would like to hear what progress party rapporteurs around the country have to say about the cuts proposed. We strengthen child protection, we strengthen the efforts of the weakest groups. So we want to create a society where the differences get smaller and where we can build community. The Progress Party and the Right will instead have greater inequalities and smaller communities, and that's the recipe for a colder society with less trust among people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e93	The President would point out that, although the Oslo City Council parties disagree, it may not be entirely parliamentary to refer to their policy as 'household activities'. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e98	I hear the representative Holmås boasting without fear of how the government cares about people out in the districts. I was at a joint meeting yesterday with the county officials, and there were some concerns about those in need of help, almost certainly resource-requiring services. So the government is getting worse compared to what they were tempted to do in 2008. Can the representative Holmås tell people out in the districts, those who are among the weakest, that this will do something about, and it will do a quick thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e103	We have strengthened this arrangement in relation to what it was like before we took power. We strengthened this system by making it a rights-based system for the municipalities around the country, to meet their needs. It's up to 80 pst -- it's right that it was 85 pst. earlier. But we have both strengthened the local economy to ensure that municipalities in general are better advised to give a proper offer, and we have strengthened the scheme in relation to the way it was when the right-hand side ruled with the support of the Progress Party. So I think that the system that is today is significantly more predictable for the municipalities around the country than the scheme that was in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e108	I thought it might be timely with a reply to the representative Holmås, so that he could also talk a little about SV's policy. It goes on two points he had: one was saying that it was easier to get a living if you had been in prison. As was quoted, it seemed that the housing market in Oslo is closed, while it was referred to, that those in prison are going ahead of others in the household queue, and that is because of an initiative by the State Council of Storberget. So my question is whether Holmås thinks it is reasonable that people who are in prison should have guaranteed housing to the disadvantage of others who get housing on their own. The last thing I want to challenge him on is: in what areas has SV taken initiatives for more humane refugee policy that Right has opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e117	Let me first say that when Erna Solberg – the leader of the Right Party and the party that Michael Tetzschner represents – discussed housing policy last time, we had three different objectives to eliminate homelessness: one was to ensure that no people would live longer than three months without an offer of permanent housing. The second was that people who came from prison would have the opportunity to get into the housing market and get a sustainable housing offer. And the third was that other groups that came from other institutions should get a housing offer. As far as I remember, the Right Thunder agreed on the return guarantee that we gave to all the people who come from prison, because we know that making sure they don't give people a real home when they come out of prison is the safest way to get people back into crime. In the other two areas, I believe that the municipality has a responsibility, and in the largest municipalities, which are run by the Right and the Advance Party – that is Oslo and Bergen – the municipalities do not live up to that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e126	In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we've spent 10 million. to a nationwide scheme for the protection of minor applicants for asylum. Today, the scheme is such that we have a scheme of war while the minor asylum seekers are in the transit phase, but in the case of a scheme of protection for minor asylum seekers when they are to be settled in the municipality, the offer is highly variable. That is why we have called for a nationwide hierarchy. Norwegian People's Aid has developed a plan for this and has challenged us to get this in place. So I want to challenge Heikki Holmås and SV on this very topic: what does SV think about getting in place such an arrangement against a group that is very vulnerable?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e133	We have done a great deal to improve the conditions for the lone minor asylum seekers, including through: establishing a better offer today and transferring care for those under 15 years of age to receive a special offer provided by the protection of children. In the past, we have also reinforced the efforts and offers made for some minor asylum seekers. But I fully agree with Geir Jørgen Bekkewold regarding the need to put in place a work order. It's one of the things that I want to prioritise that we're working on in the year that comes, because there's no doubt that those who are alone, and children who are on the run, have special needs for follow-up, they have special needs to get their interests taken care of. That's why the government for the summer is also going to come up with a big message that's going to be about children on the run, and I'm absolutely sure that this is going to be one of the things that are being taken up properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e140	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e144	Today we are going to discuss the important budget indicating the space for action of municipalities and county municipalities in our country. The municipal sector will have almost 350 billion next year. kr. It's a formidable amount of money that's going to be very well-being. Local authorities are guaranteed the means to employ more people in schools, kindergartens and the care sector. In addition, the 2011 budget includes specific initiatives on child protection, kindergartens, upgrading of school buildings and churches, new nursing homes and residential housing, in the care of drug users and in the Reform of Cooperation. We are still challenged from the opposition that there is not enough money for the municipal sector. In today's debate, the opposition parties, the Right and the Advance Party, are most likely to repeat their message from previous budget debates in the municipal area: the government is creating too much expectations for the provision of services in the municipal sector and is not following up with sufficient resources. We're happy to take that challenge. Because we listen carefully to the signals we get from Kommune-Norway. The municipalities tell us that the situation is difficult in many places. That is why we are strengthening the free resources with an additional billion in the current year. This, of course, does not solve all the challenges, but it helps to facilitate the situation in many municipalities. When asked about the 178 rapporteurs of the Labour Party, which represent more than one third of all the rapporteurs of the country, they say that the money will help to strengthen the elderly and will improve the economic space of the municipalities. We have also shown in the past that when there is a need for more money, there will be more money. The municipalities are always going to want increased funds, something else would be alarming. All local politicians have an inherent urge to want to improve the supply of their own citizens. This is a municipal law of nature that acts as a quality guarantee. But then there are also many municipalities that come to us and say, "Although we should want more money, we do not want to go back to the period of Erna Solberg's starvation of the municipalities, when she was a municipal minister." And I get that. Over the period 2001–2005, there was an average annual increase in activity in the municipal sector that was so low that it is not even appropriate to count as a percentage. The growth was only 8 per million. During the period 2005-2010, under the red-green government, the annual average growth of activity in the municipal sector is estimated to be around 3,75 pst. So with the red-green government, the growth of activity on average has been almost five times higher every year than when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister, with the Progress Party as the supporting party. Keep such figures in mind when the Right and Advance Party take the floor later in the debate and warn against red-green policies for the municipalities. I myself was the rapporteur in a small municipality in 2005 when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. The municipalities were starving, and the significance of the state budget for the municipality of Måsøy was that to get into port we had to cancel five to seven employees. There are many in a small municipality, where every job is important. We let it go, Másøy was rescued by the gong: we got a government change and an uplift of the municipal economy that made us avoid saying anything. There was no surplus, but a necessary strengthening of the economy, so that we could still deliver the services we had. Well, from experience, you don't get wise, so at least you get wisers. The last time Norway was exposed to right-wing rule, it became no longer a public sector, although it lowered taxes, exposed to competition and privatised. There is no reason to believe that if the Right Policy is complemented by the Price Fund to the Advance Party, it will lead to greater growth in welfare production in municipalities. The government has shown that it has been possible to get full babysitting. Now we're going to ensure full hospital coverage. Therefore, we strengthen the grant scheme, so that the state takes a significantly larger part of the bill for site construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e163	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e166	In the comments in this setting, there are many excellent formulations, and a joint committee has among other things. said: ‘The Committee believes that housing support is a targeted measure to help those who need it the most. The Committee points out that electricity prices have fluctuated sharply in recent years. It is therefore important that the government closely monitor developments in electricity prices and use housing support as a tool to help the most disadvantaged if once again experience an abnormally high growth in electricity prices.» The problem is that when we had the financial debate, the opposition is promoting the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for careful monitoring of the evolution of the electricity price and, if an abnormal situation arises again on the electricity market, the government is asked to consider using housing aid to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged.’ This was voted down by the government party, and then my question is, What does the Labour Party think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e181	The working party is aware of the situation related to exceptional electricity prices. We intend to follow that situation carefully and make sure that something is done in view of people who come in such a situation. We have the opportunity to use the housing support, and we'll evaluate it. We're going to make sure that there are arrangements, so that those who are most vulnerable to it are going to get help and support. It's a tough situation. We have a power market that swings a lot, and we're aware that there are people who need help, and they're going to get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e186	I think it must be a little sad, I, for a majority government to stand here and only talk about the opponent's policy – totally without vision and totally without thought for the future, just talk about what happened six to seven years ago. Erna Solberg is brought forward as the scare image, as the hungry feed to the municipalities, etc. It doesn't look like Erna Solberg's popularity is permanently weakened by the treatment she gave the municipalities. So now we see that the red-green boasts of one thing: its use of money. The visions are completely missing. The reforms are lacking. Internal quarrel stops things. We know that administrative expenses in municipalities have increased from 16 billion. DKK to 22 billion kr under this government. Is that the growth of the representative, Ingelill Olsen, proud? Is it the growth of administrative expenditure that is marked by the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e193	Firstly, I want to say that all the red-green parties are incredibly proud of the efforts that have been made in the municipal sector in those years. It's been a fantastic boost. I've been rapporteur for 14 years, so I know that, and I've known it on the body. I'm so glad it's not Erna Solberg who's a municipal minister. In terms of total increased administrative expenditure, the total expenditure of the local government sector has increased by nearly 90 billion. kr from 2005 to 2009. 6 pst. of this expenditure growth has gone to administration, 94 pst. has gone to other purposes in the municipalities. Administration is a smaller proportion in 2009 with a red-green government than in 2005, when the Right is in government. In addition, it might be interesting for the Right to take a closer look at the individual municipality. As far as I am aware of the figures, administrative costs increased from 2008 to 2009 more in right-wing municipalities than in labour party-driven municipalities. So maybe someone's sitting in a glass house.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e200	In several studies we have been told that the quality of municipal services is probably as good in small municipalities as in large municipalities. Several studies also show that people living in small municipalities are actually more satisfied with the provision of services than people living in larger municipalities. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party is in charge of coercion of municipalities. Despite the dawning uprisings among the Workers' Party's territory on the grassroots, the Workers' Party believes that they alone know best what the Norway Map should look like. When do you want to give up this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e205	I myself live in a small municipality, and I am very pleased with the services I get there. I think I'm living a very good and rich life there. But I also know, because I come from a border of the country where there are major challenges, that many municipalities are struggling to get professionals, to fill jobs, to do all the things a municipality is going to do. That's the dilemma with the generalist municipalities when the smallest municipality has less than 300 inhabitants and the largest is Oslo. It's a huge tension. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we have started a debate. We haven't concluded. We have started a broad programme debate that we will continue until our national meeting. We are not going to decide how to do this until 2013. In the Workers' Party it is high below the roof, and it is allowed to discuss freely. We have libertarian politicians. So it's going to be an exciting debate, where everyone gets to speak up and be involved and influence the final outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e212	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e215	Before I start my post, I would like to thank the representative, Ingelill Olsen, for her answer to my question. The reply clearly underlines that the Labour Party is in favour of the proposal that the Labour Party voted against 14 days ago. It is of course good that the Labour Party agrees with its opposition proposals, but it would be even better if the Labour Party had also voted in favour of the proposals they are in favour of. We in the Progress Party are concerned that Norway is going to be an even better country to live in than what Norway is today. Of course, then basic welfare services in the municipalities are entirely decisive. We want a need-driven state funding of these welfare services. It is not as the representative Holmås says, that the state will operate this, but the state will finance it. Local authorities shall continue to be responsible for the provision of these services and users shall have the freedom of choice, but the funding shall be public. If you have a documented need, it triggers funding in the same way as a government-funded unemployment benefit if you become unemployed. If you get sick and go beyond the employer's period, you get a health allowance from the government. This can also finance the basic welfare services. There will then be no difference between a cage in a rich municipality or a poor municipality, and politicians cannot deprioritise welfare services and funding them. But until we get that through, of course, we need to take on board today's budgetary system and the challenges it poses. It is claimed here today that this budget leads to a strengthened local economy. Now, unfortunately, most municipalities don't feel that way. There is also little evidence of a strong local economy, from the local authorities' point of view. Of course, it is true that a permit for more money for the next year than for the current year, but there are also a number of other things that need to be considered: the municipalities are getting more and more tasks. More stringent demands are being made on the quality of these services from both government and government, but also from local residents. It is also the case that we are growing more and more in this country. Only in the last 12 months has Norway's population increased by 1.3 pst. We've got 62,000 more inhabitants in Norway in the last 12 months. In addition, there's an ageing population we have. All of this means that driving Kommune-Noreg will cost more than it has done before. Then it is not enough to distinguish one from another when the number of inhabitants increases and so on. The Progress Party has taken developments seriously, and we have proposed more money to the municipalities than the government does. We're increasing the free money by 1 billion. kr more than the government, we're increasing by 2 billion. kr more than the government in ear-marked tools for the care of the elderly, and we have taken care of resource-requiring services 700 million. kr more than the government has allowed. This would mean that all municipalities in Norway would have significantly better finances. I can take two municipalities here that the representative Heikki Holmås is busy. One is Oslo, which, with our scheme, would have gotten 312 million. kr more. The Bergen wanted to get approx. 150 million. kr more. Másøy municipality, with which the representative Ingaill Olsen is busy, would get almost 1 million. kr more if the Progress Party's alternative government budget had been agreed – NOK 977 701, to be accurate. And Liv Signe Navarsete's municipality, Lærdal, would get NOK 1 977 000 – almost 2 million. kr – more than the government proposes. It's easy that if we're going to have an old-age care that shines, we need action and more money and not just election campaign talk. In addition to what I mentioned at the moment when operating, we have also proposed a significant increase in funding for the investment of hospitals. We've increased the 2011 frame from 2,000 to 3,000 places, and we've also seen a ceiling of 1.3 million. kr per sickeheimsplatz, as opposed to the government party and the government’s proposal of NOK 890,000. And then we've taken care of a lot of other things, among other things. for the adaptation of existing housing for over 50 million. kr. In addition to being concerned that municipalities need more money, we are concerned that the municipalities need to get the most out of every penny that they have at their disposal, and that they also get the best possible quality of the services provided. Then we can't help but notice that having larger and more robust municipalities is necessary in the future. So today, municipalities have no financial incentive to merge, on the contrary. The Municipal Committee has been in the Nord-Trøndelag and has heard about the municipal convergence process between Moscow and India. The two municipalities, if they now merge, will lose future revenues that represent a present value of 145 million. kr. Obviously it's not very attractive to merge when you have to pay 145 million. kr to the State in order to be allowed to join forces. Greater and more robust municipalities will provide better skills and a better professional environment, and it will provide better support for the provision of good services and e.g.: putting into practice new welfare technologies. We in the Progress Party also believe that it is important to facilitate competition, both external competition and internal competition. We simply believe that competition is healthy. The vast majority of them are some of them that competition works in some areas at least. We all think about it when we had an approximate aircraft monopoly in Norway. Then it costs NOK 5000 for the flight ticket tour-return Bergen. Today we have prices that might be a tenth of the same distance, at least very low. Then we see the importance of competition in aviation – and I could take a number of examples. When everyone is certain that competition works so well in some areas, I wonder that it would not work in other areas, including in the public sector. We're overestimated that it works at least as well in the public sector. That is why we want to intensify competition. That's what we think we'll give better services, it gives more choice for users, and it will also give more services for each of the municipalities that have at their disposal. Therefore, short-term grips and long-term grips must be made. In the short term, we need to add more money to our municipalities so that they can do their job, and they can also anticipate future challenges. That's why we've raised 3.7 billion. kr more in 2011 operating assets than the government. In addition, we have strengthened the funding of health care centres. In the longer term, it is also important that new grips be taken. The only thing is to change the accounting system so that one sees the real situation in Kommune-Noreg. One must stimulate healthy competition, and one must stimulate a more efficient municipal structure. If the long-term grips had been taken, it is obvious that we would have gotten both more and better well-being for each krone the municipalities dispose of. This is important for the future, given the challenges faced by municipalities in the event of an ageing wave, etc. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that the Progress Party is behind either alone or together with our friends in the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e247	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e253	The Progress Party wants a state-owned bureaucratic piece price financing for some of our most important welfare services. With this, the Progress Party will move power and money from local people elected to a state bureaucracy and centralize well-being. As far as I know, the representative Hageseter has been travelling to North Korea. Is that where he and the Progress Party take inspiration from a centralized system, or does Hagesets know other countries where the Progress Party model has been tested? Where was the model of the Progress Party tested?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e260	I can confirm to the representative Magnusson Lydvo that in North Korea there were no market forces. There was only state funding of everything, and there was no competition and no private enterprise. If there's any inspiration I've got from North Korea, it's that the plan economy is not forward-looking. There is nothing to copy. The socialist system is also not a good display window. We don't want a state-owned bureaucratic price system. We want government funding, and we want competition. This will simplify. This will also ensure that users receive the services they need when they need them. So this will lead to fewer bureaucrats, and, most importantly, it will ensure that users get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e267	If I had permission, I would say that the Progress Party has the grace gift of fear when they come and refer to the calculations from Moscow at 145 million. kr. These calculations include, inter alia: loss of small municipal grants. The small municipal grant will remove the Progress Party only immediately, not in 15 to 20 years, as with current legislation. But now leave it. I was going to point out one of the things that the Progress Party is raising here, where they say they're going to abolish social housing policy. They believe that social housing policy is completely wrong. Yes, it's easy to see how the Progress Party is involved and controls both Oslo and Bergen. Here in Oslo, through its policy towards municipal housing and housing, the Progress Party has an output of 300 million. kr in income from the people living in municipal dwellings. Does the Progress Party believe that it is right to take from the poor and give to others?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e274	Firstly, I would like to say that the Progress Party has not said that we should remove the small community proposal overnight. We have never said that, so it must be something that the representative Holmås has dreamed. Wherever he got it from, I don't know. What we've said is that we should consider phasing out this small municipality advantage over x years. It must be warned in good time before we do. It's just that you need to get ahead of the municipal convergence process. When it comes to social housing policy, unlike SV, and unlike the North Korea regime, we believe in the market. We believe that if one stimulates the market, organizes dwellings at different levels and different sizes according to different needs, it will be the best way to secure in the long term all a dwelling that is adapted to their own needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e281	At first, I noticed that the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, was very concerned about the electricity prices. That's legitimate. In the Süd-Trøndelag, the Promskrittspartie by the county representative Ellefsen explained the electricity prices with increased immigration. It might have been interesting to hear if Hagesets share that opinion. Then I want to go back to need-driven government funding, which Hageseter spoke so beautifully about in his post. I find it hard to understand that this could mean something other than a red tape and a federalization, where you get the very opposite of what the Progress Party claims that you get, simply because you take away the local discretion and replace it with some sort of bureaucratic institution. For whom is it that defines the need? Who is it that's going to decide what the government is going to finance? To put these systems in place, a lot of people are needed. It will be state bureaucrats. It will undermine the Norwegian welfare model and the whole idea of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e288	Now I want to comment on the power prices. The high electricity prices in Norway are due to a lack of generating capacity in Norway. That's what's behind it. I think that those who have run this country have made us unbelievably poor when it is that, in a normal year, we must import coal power or nuclear power from our neighbouring countries to meet our needs. We need to have bigger expansion. The Progress Party has proposed a number of times. Where it relates to the needs-driven state funding, it shall not be bureaucratic at all. It's the same model as for example. if you are unemployed. Then there is a government-funded unemployment benefit. If a sick person becomes ill in addition to the employer's period, a state-funded sickness allowance will be paid. No one's running around worrying that it's bureaucratic, because it's not bureaucratic. Nor will our system of need-driven state funding for welfare services be bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e295	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e298	We're at the threshold of an election year where the municipalities will be in focus. Over the year we are behind, there has been a little new life in the debate about which municipalities best care for the needs of the citizens for service, quality and care. The government has given various signals about what can be expected of a municipality through its work on the cooperation reform. The debate on municipal reform is thus under way. Right-wing welcome this debate, and note with interest that more and more representatives of the government parties – yes, up to several in the Chamber here today – are in charge of municipal mergers. In the right, there is the need for a community reform that ensures greater freedom and responsibility for local communities. The right will therefore carry out a comprehensive task and municipal reform that will provide better services and larger and more robust municipalities. We want to bring down the county. We want to make 250 million. kr in the commitment authorisation that can be used to stimulate voluntary community mergers. We want to limit the county's discretionary exercise. These will be central parts of a municipal reform that Right will work with. The government of Stoltenberg left the early goal that the municipalities should be financed by 50 pst. of own tax income. We still believe that the target should be 50 pst., and that the municipal taxpayer should have been higher as a result. We will therefore refer to the main features of our alternative income system to limit it to proposing to maintain the system of returning part of the corporation tax to the municipalities as well. It is important that municipalities retain parts of the corporate tax locally. It provides an important basis for municipalities to pursue a positive and forward-looking industrial policy. This position has been supported in the past by both the NHO and the KS, and therefore we are still proposing that 4.25 pst. the company tax is returned to the municipality. Municipalities that facilitate the development of businesses and the creation of new jobs should be rewarded for this, not penalised, as in today's system. The government's plans for the local government sector in 2011 are a sober and tight scheme that will require conversion and cut off from the municipalities. The economic balance that the Government announced in its first government statement that the municipalities would achieve is further away than ever. If municipalities are to be able to improve the provision of welfare within this framework, they need to streamline their operation and focus on improving the quality of services within the same economic framework. The welfare community faces major challenges. We need innovation and innovation in the public sector to ensure sustainable well-being. New operational solutions and active and modern employer policies are required if the objective of a good and efficient public sector is to be achieved. The central task of the state is to facilitate people, businesses and institutions to function and create values for themselves and society. Enterprises and communities are calling for more resources for road, education and research to facilitate growth in local communities. That is why these areas must be given priority, and that is also what the Right is doing in its alternative budget. In our opinion, good communications are the best district and regional policies. That is why we are proposing to cut the regional development line in the counties. $800 million. NOK of this money is set aside for road purposes. Right wants to provide better conditions for job creators, small and large businesses. Economic policy, together with the transport policy, is the most important pillar of regional policy. Much of the competitive part of Norwegian business is located in District Norway. We are therefore committed to pursuing an economic policy that improves conditions for the competitive sector. We also believe that whoever wears the shoe knows best where it prints. That's why we redispatch the county regional development funds, first of all, and then we set of 400 million. kr on a new item for local economic development, where municipalities, either alone or together with others, can operate industrial development, local action, business areas, etc. This is what we think is better spent money when it comes to good district policy. We've also gone 200 million. kr for measures to strengthen the kerosene competence in North Norway. We believe it is important to strengthen this competence, so that we have a good basis when oil drilling is going to take place outside the Lofoten and the West Pole and in other important areas. In the right, there is a need for a stronger focus on the integration of those who choose to live in Norway. It is important to use the first phase of increased language and social education and inclusion in working life. It is important that measures for increased integration target women and children in particular. Right wants to strengthen the introduction work. In our alternative budget, we propose inter alia: to provide participants in introduction courses with children of kindergarten age with free nursery facilities. It is also proposed to extend the provision of language mapping for all 4 year-olds to the whole country. Basic Norwegian skills are crucial for the success of children in Norway. Government parties have shown that they want to conduct language screening in kindergartens. Yes, there is language mapping every day. Right will not exclude children who do not go to kindergarten. Therefore, language mapping should also be carried out at the 4-yearly level. All those who don't go to kindergarten, or are going to go to kindergarten, will therefore start with a disability when they start school. Even the red-green government can't force people to send children to kindergarten. And then it's weird that it punishes the kids by removing this tool that the 4-year controls and language mapping are. Perhaps kindergarten will be an instrument that can be used as a result of monitoring. In any case, free core time will only benefit someone, and it is not given that it reaches those who should be reached. In the right, it is important to facilitate the inclusion of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants and refugees in the whole family. An important instrument, as I have mentioned, is to offer free kindergarten to that group, provided that both mother and father participate in the scheme, or are in work or education. This will facilitate the integration of women and children into Norwegian society. The right considers that it is still necessary to tighten up asylum policy. There has been a happy decline in asylum arrivals, but we still believe that there is room for a tighter asylum policy and expect that, with our proposals, the estimate for new asylum seekers would have fallen by 2 000. At the same time, we want to establish an instruction authority from the government towards UNE on fundamental issues, similar to the arrangement that exists for UDI. In addition, the government is asked to review the procedures for the forwarding and follow-up of criminal proceedings and asylum interviews in the UDI and the UN to the State Attorney. The government has been defensive and winged, especially in integration policy. However, asylum policy has also had different consequences. The right also has proposals to establish more return agreements, increase the maintenance requirement for family reunification and information measures in countries from which most groundless asylum seekers come. There is a need to develop an alternative strategy to today's predictable policies and a new policy for the operation of asylum recipients that can contribute to greater competence in the field. In this context, it is relevant to develop their own receptions of competence, located in different parts of the country, which may specialise in different areas of the field, such as: return problems, screening, single minor asylum seekers, etc. So far, there has not been a single case for the Storting from the Minister for Integration in order to improve the integration process. Now the Minister for Integration has taken on paperwork, but has got a replacement. It is possible that it will speed up the work a little. But it's quite amazing that a minister like the Lysbakken, who has traveled around the country and the beach and talked about integration policy, is unable to present a single proposal to the Stortinget. It's very disappointing. When the government divided asylum and integration policies into two departments, many expected offensive integration policies. It has been completely absent. While Minister of Justice Storberget has filed a case by case, it is completely dead from Minister Lysbakken. There must be a great disappointment for the party SV, which put so much effort into getting the integration work under its hat, that there hasn't been a single thing. I take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e338	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e343	I have to say it was interesting to hear the representative of Greece talk about the fact that whoever has the shoe on, knows where it presses, and then proposes to remove the framework transfer to the county councils that relate to regional development funds and earmark them. But that's not what I was doing in this line. What I was going to bring up with the representative of Greece is the rhetoric that we hear from the Right this autumn, for example. in the financial debate. The right has now learned from its friends in Sweden that it is wise to get close to the social-democratic rhetoric and the policy we have, at least verbally, and argue for less social differences in society. We can agree on that. But at the same time, the Right adds up to a policy that will increase the differences. One is the property tax, but the other is that you want municipalities to keep a larger share of tax revenue. It means greater differences between municipalities, not less differences. Major differences between municipalities mean greater differences between people in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e350	I am pleased that the representative Sivertsen finally turned to the municipal budget and the debate we have here today. The first point he had was of particular interest, namely that it was very unsocial to cut the county regional development funds. In these days we see torch trains – we see torch trains for the local hospital, we have seen torch trains for road development. But when did the representative Sivertsen see a torch for county regional development funds? We've never seen that. That's not where people are asking for services. People are asking for services locally. They want a local business area, they want local district development measures, not the mastodont of a county municipality that sits and distributes money through extensive use of consultants and activities. Then he talked about our rhetoric. Our rhetoric has been essentially the same all along. We're not for a society of great differences. We want a fairly equivalent society, but we want to launch competition. And we want to launch effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e360	It's quite striking how the Right drives and criticises our integration policy and the Audun Light Bin in particular. We're doing a raise to make sure that we increase the number of Norwegian hours. We're doing a raise to re-establish a good part of the crazy things that the Right did when they sat with power, like cutting out the language training in Norwegian for immigrants in asylum recipients, as they did for all workers. We've made a promise to get those things in place and to get free core time in the kindergarten, because we know that it just reaches a good part of the kids who have special needs. But let me go over to something else, which is about business development. When I travel around this country and meet the Right-Rapporteurs, I do not meet one Right-Rapporteur who agrees with Trond Helleland in the cuts that are being carried out. When I get to Bindal, they talk about business development in support of the local company. When I get to Værøy, they show me to the local company. And the investment in Kai development in Bø would never have happened if it hadn't been for the regional money lying there that you've cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e367	This is where the representative Holmås is so completely wrong, because when you talk to the Right-Rapporteurs around the country or with some SV rapporteur, they say: we need local action here, we want to develop this. They do not demand municipal regional development funds. They may be asking for the possibility to create a business garden, they are asking for the possibility to develop the county road to become a better way, so that they can produce the good goods they produce. I can assure the representative Holmås that I think I have better contact with the Right Rapporteurs than what he has – I am in the Right Municipal Committee. There's no one who criticises that we're doing the re-priority we're doing. The most important thing for the Right is better infrastructure, greater schooling and stimulating business through tax incentives. That's what makes for development. And there's also growth in District Norway. There's a broad consensus about that in the Right. I hope that the Swedish authorities will realize that it is time to start work and work hard to pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e374	The President will remind both representatives that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e377	Firstly, I would like to ask Greece about the figure of 2,000, i.e. 2,000 fewer asylum seekers in Norway. All the experience shows that it is very difficult to decide how many there are coming here. There are often situations that lie outside this room, which determine whether people need to seek asylum. And I'm going to assume that the Right won't take away the individual right and the individual obligations we've assumed to treat people properly. If he could tell me how to figure out the 2,000, I'd be interested in it. The second thing I want to challenge is municipal structure. The number of municipalities in Norway is not constitutional. There's a reason for that. It's going up and down, it's done through history as time and circumstances go along. But in any case, we have to have a structure in this country that allows you to have small municipalities. In Finnmark, there are some-and-sytti thousand inhabitants. If you want to have 20,000-30 000 in each municipality, for which the right has been appointed for a while, you will have two or three municipalities. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e384	I fully agree with Mr Borten Moe. That's why I think it's time we got a proper debate about municipal structure, where we don't stick labels on each other, like the Right wants all municipalities to have at least 30,000 inhabitants, etc. We've never said that. We have said that we want larger municipalities, but at the same time we see that there are great regional differences. We see that there are island communities. We see that there are municipalities in Finnmark where it is so far to the next center that joining them with the neighbor would be difficult. So absolutely, we need a nuanced debate on municipal structure, and not a debate based on one not wanting to do anything. That's what the impression of a sad one is left with by one party, and that's the center party. All the other parties are now on the verge of the municipal debate, while the Senter Party, in particular the municipal minister, is taking every opportunity to conclude that there is no need to do anything here, at least not to stimulate voluntary aggregation, and of course coercion is completely excluded. If the Center Party could take off that bond for the islands and said that now we want a real debate, it would be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e391	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e394	Let me start by saying that the government and Stortinget have transferred the income system to Norwegian municipalities this year. It ensures smoother well-being and the possibility of equivalent life across the country. It's important. We think it's a good setup. There are good, objective criteria on which to base. But there's always going to be struggle and discussion around this. Therefore, I am glad that this has been announced to be evaluated every four years. Then it is that Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities have never previously offered so many services to so many people. We're going to spend almost 350 billion dollars. kr on this in the year. That's one of our biggest spending items. It is also the case that the quality of services is increasing. This is a good example of yesterday's debate and the PISA surveys. Will there be a need for more resources? Probably, yeah. It will always be. But I want to say that it's a little hollow when we get criticism of the right side because of the resource situation in the municipal sector, because the fact is that we've moved the floor in the municipal economy. We've defined a new reality. In terms of financial resources, we have implemented a structural change in the way we intend to approach resource access. But then we have to move on. There are many challenges that need to be met and that are ahead of us in time. It's school, it's older, there's increased skills requirements, it's integration, to mention someone. In the case of school, we're on the right track. The schools are owned and run by Norwegian municipalities. Without the framework, without the competent teachers and without the competent school owners we see the country over, it would be impossible to implement the results improvements in practice. Another major challenge is that we become an increasingly older population. To put it another way: the demography challenges us. We live longer. I just have to stress that it's very good. That means a lot too many. There are many who have a richer life over several years. At the same time, the quality of the services we are already offering should be increased in the light of time and circumstances. That means you don't just need more money. You also have to do things differently, think differently, convert and renew the public sector. The response of the government and the majority of the population to this is the Interaction Reform. It is a major and decisive reform that provides better services where people live. It gives a better price, and it shifts skills jobs and money across the country. It is a very important and correct reform. It is also a very good example of the government meeting the needs of the time and transforming the public sector accordingly. Another good example is the transfer of road liability to county municipalities. This has led to increased activity, increased investment and increased budget for maintenance. Society has become more complex. The requirements are increasing. Norwegian municipalities also experience an increase in the skills requirements and complexity of the services they provide. Some say that the unique answer to this development is the aggregation of Norwegian municipalities, i.e. structure. For some, it would be right – as for Moscow and India in the North Trondelag, who have joined forces after a referendum in which both municipalities said yes – but not for everyone. It is an overly simple approach to a very complex and complex debate. We're in this country anyway, we have to have a system that takes into account that there are large geographic distances, that people live scattered, which means that we have to have structures that work even if the municipalities are small. It is also a fact that large municipalities do not necessarily operate more efficiently than small ones. What appears to be economies of scale can often disappear in increased bureaucracy and distance. I also want to mention that in this discussion we also have to include the aspects of democracy, not least in an image where there are many municipalities that choose intercommunal solutions. I think that's right, and I think that's important, but we have to have an eye for democracy, for reprobability and for openness in the systems. Let me conclude by saying that I think we have had a happy and successful contraction in Norwegian asylum policy. It gives room to turn the focus towards integration into Norwegian municipalities. That's where people live, and that's where we now have to put the bump.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e418	In today's VG, we can read that the government parties are now proposing to force municipalities to accept and settle refugees. It has happened in the respective party groups, otherwise against – if we are to believe VG – the will of the Council of State. Among other things, the Centre’s large-scale group has been forced to settle refugees in Norwegian municipalities in the future. What's a little special here is that the representative Ola Borten Moe has, in a row, brought out the local discretion and how important it is, in terms of price financing, when the Progress Party has proposed it. Of course, it's an argument that doesn't hold water. But here, as far as local authority is concerned, the local democracy's ability to control the reception of refugees when they are to be settled in Norwegian municipalities, so the Central Party does not have that will at all. [[President clubs]] Is it such that local democratic judgment is something you only talk about in party speeches? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e425	The President will remind you that speaking time is actually the maximum time and not the minimum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e428	As for the question of how the government intends to solve this challenge, I will not answer on behalf of it, because I do not know. Very familiar has not yet been presented. For my own part – and I would like to stress that I am now talking on behalf of myself – this is about people who have entered the Norwegian community, which is part of the Norwegian community, who have passed the loop and are to be integrated into our society, being Northmen in every way possible. Nor is it the case with regard to any other groups, that it is discussed around the Norwegian Presidency and in Norwegian local government whether one is welcome, whether one should have a right of reservation against resettlement. It doesn't apply to any other groups. I don't think it's natural for this group either. I also believe that this leads to some unworthy debates, simply because we are not discussing how to achieve good integration, we are discussing whether to have integration. That's not the question. The question is how to achieve good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e439	The representative Ola Borten Moe, like his colleagues in the red-green project, is very pleased to spend taxpayers' money, and can also, of course, say that huge amounts are spent on the municipal sector. Then I understood it so that you were on the right track in all areas. The PISA study is moving in the right direction, even if what you're really doing is breaking a downward curve after the experiments of social democracy. What the representative wasn't into was what the Central Party might be more interested in the results of, that is, the fact that never so many people have moved from small municipalities to larger towns and cities. Is the representative Borten Moe satisfied with and proud of his party's policy of managing government offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e448	I am very proud and satisfied with the policy that the government is pursuing. At the same time, I think we should respect – and I think the representative of Tetzschner does – that it is difficult to decide where people will live. There are heavy societal trends that are centralising in Norwegian society, and it has basically been the development of the last 150 years. We can't decide to stop that in this room, even if we could never have wanted that much. What's our challenge as a community, what's our challenge as a government and a great majority, is to ensure people a real freedom of choice, that one has access to good services, that it's possible to get good education, that it's possible to get good jobs, good life, good societies all over the country. There I must say with all due respect that I feel that this government is pursuing a completely different policy and a much more offensive policy than the policy of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e455	I must say that I was not quite wise on the representative Ola Borten Moe's answer to my previous question. A party that in every respect emphasizes the importance of local political judgement, of local democracy, the importance of local authorities making decisions – I had almost said – at a level where they are closest to the issue, and the importance of not being politicians in big business and government and telling municipalities how to make their arrangements, is, of course, the Central Party, which has been the target of this! Just when it comes to refugees, we've seen that it's the local discretion that has been crucial to success. This is a responsibility that local politicians take very seriously when assessing how many refugees they are going to live in. That's why I again ask the representative: is it so that local democratic judgment has no value at all when it comes to refugees and the assessment of their reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e462	It is quite correct, as the representative says, that it is the local political judgement that has succeeded in the cases of successful integration. But then – with shame to report – there are also good examples that this is the opposite that has happened when you have gone into the processes with the goal of not succeeding, not being integrated, not accepting people, because you are in favour of it for some reason. We're a nation state, we're a state and a society where it is that if you first come within the borders, if you have a Norwegian passport, if you're about to become a Norwegian citizen, there's a lot of rights to it. And I look forward with pleasure to a reality where the Progress Party is going to start making proposals in this Chamber that Norwegian municipalities can begin to say no to certain population groups because for some reason you would want it. Is it the definition of local democracy that the Progress Party uses?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e478	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e481	Nothing seems impossible for someone who doesn't have to do it himself. For the government, who makes beautiful promises to families with children and to the elderly, it is well aware that it is the municipalities that have to be responsible for their breach of promises. It must be frustrating for local politicians around our country to take up the noise of the red-green national politicians. It is those who meet the inhabitants face to face and have to explain why they lay down schools, kittens in care and kittens in psychiatry, and why they do not rust up constructions and facilities with large maintenance kits. And on national television, Jens Stoltenberg says that everyone has and everyone is going to get more, even though he sometimes makes it clear that it gets smaller by "more". In our alternative budget, we in the Christian People's Party have proposed to significantly strengthen the municipality's economy and to postpone the transfer of financial responsibility for the kindergartens. In our alternative budget, we have shown that it is possible to strengthen the area of action of municipalities, so that politicians can give more priority to children and the elderly locally. The Christian People's Party has a special commitment to the volunteers, and today I will mention in particular the work that is being done in the field of integration. The voluntary organisations in this field have a unique competence, a network and an ability to engage individuals in the service of society. They are the people and the link between the individual immigrants and the community. For many immigrants and refugees, the first years in Norway are tough. When you don't know the Norwegian system well, it can be hard to figure out. The Christian People's Party is in favour of a system of refugee guides in all municipalities. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we have invested in state support for non-governmental organisations, and the Christian People's Party has invested 10 million. Extra kroner for these. The Christian People's Party has also proposed a national scheme for the protection of lone minor asylum seekers. This is a particularly vulnerable group in society. A national scheme for these children ensures good care for them, even after the transit phase. They need someone who cares about them even after they live in the municipality and who is responsible for helping them – competent adults. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the integration of immigrants. There is a significant gap between the costs actually incurred by municipalities of integration and the integration grant. The proposal for the Government is 40 to 50 000 kroner below the 2011 estimate of the calculation committee. The Christian People's Party has allocated 50 million in its alternative budget. kr more than the government of the municipalities to reduce this gap. Although this may work, we in the Christian People's Party do not believe that integration can be solved with money alone. It is the ability of individual immigrants and residents to achieve security, work, social belongings and belief in the future that creates a society that integrates and includes. I think a society that cultivates fear creates distances. It has been said that the Workers' Party has become more similar to the Progress Party in the field of immigration. In many ways, the party of progress has been good at diagnosing societal problems. Nevertheless, I would like to put a big question mark on the medicine they prescribe in the field of immigration and integration. I believe that both the Progress Party and the Labour Party must be more effective at talking about more than just how we can reduce the number of asylum seekers. There's so much more at stake than just this one question. We politicians have a special responsibility for the integration debate, precisely because the debate itself can create both greater and smaller distances. I think it's about talking more about social inclusion. It is about rights and obligations, opportunities and participation instead of an ongoing debate on cultural integration that highlights the external and internal differences, and often ends in a discussion about hijab, religion and other things that may be at the extreme of what we politicians should be concerned about. I would like to address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made and the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e509	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e514	In the public debate, and in so far as this House, and now represented by the recent intervention of the representative, Mr Becquerad, is concerned, it becomes clearer and clearer that immigration, asylum and integration policies make a major difference between the Progress Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other. In the work of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, it is clear that integration policy is an important area for the Christian People's Party, which has clear values-based positions in this field. If we choose to call it next love, if we call it solidarity, well, it can really go into one. My question to the representative Bekkeword is: Is integration policy so important to the Christian People's Party that it actually excludes future government cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e521	The integration debate and the integration field are very important for the Christian People's Party. That is quite right, what the representative Lise Christoffersen points to; here there is a great distance between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. Let me say it like this: government questions aren't very high on our agenda right now. In fact, we're spending the most time trying to move this colossus by a red-green government in the right direction, also in the integration field. In this area, the Christian People's Party wants the most. It turns out in the budgets. The red-greens do not support the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting, rather on the contrary. Right now I have to say that most of the time is used to try to move this red-green colossus in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e526	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e529	The left is not represented in the committee, but we still want to comment on the position and this field as part of the government budget. Over the last few years, even under this government, we have seen a great growth in many areas of the municipal budgets. The major challenges are not about the money that has been granted, but all the demands that have come together with the money. What we see is much more governmental governance and much more control of the money coming to the municipalities. That's why it feels like the action space gets smaller, sail if you actually get more money. It also means that the major challenge in the whole municipal sector now might be to bring about a renewal of the welfare state, transform it and delegate more power downwards, but also to build competences in the first paragraph. If we're going to do that, if we're going to create the welfare municipalities of the future, we need to get bigger municipalities. It's about the fact that very many of the services we're looking at in the future are increasingly being guided by competence. In the municipalities it becomes more important with more wise heads and not just more hands. Then it is important to be able to build a professional environment, then it is important to offer professionally good solutions, and then you need a certain size of the unit that will offer the solutions to people. In the alternative budget of the Left, we've invested over 2 billion. to a number of measures targeted specifically at poverty. Many of them are engaged in community services. There is an increase in social assistance rates, an increase in the number of health sisters and specialised educators and a shift of power downwards in child protection, by reducing regional child protection and building up local child protection. We want those who see the children in their eyes to be the ones who make the decisions in their lives. In the field of housing policy, we have put in place several measures for the homeless, taking into account the system of home purchases and a large uplift in the case of ‘hidden dwellings’. We believe that the state, together with the municipalities, must take greater responsibility if we are to do something about housing policy and the increased number of people who have no place to live. The left was part of the old-age agreement with the government. But we've added 2,000 new hospitals. However, the most important thing in our alternative budget is that we have increased the state grant share from 25 pst. until 40 pst., which we think actually means something to the municipalities when they're going to make important decisions about whether they're willing to expand, or if there's something they're going to wait to do. So the left has added a little post – now I don't see the municipal minister here, but I see other government councils that might be able to pass it on to the municipal minister – and that's because the left has an intense desire to raise the issue of corruption in the municipalities. Today, we have a municipal law, especially a planning and building law, which means that we have to be extra alert, given that you might take shortcuts, that you can do things that you might not have done when you have to make fair decisions. Transparency International Norway has applied to the municipal minister for 1 million. NOK to a project to work against corruption in municipalities. Now it is the case that Norway’s ‘treasure’ has fallen slightly in the last year on this particular field. I think it would have been a good idea for the municipal minister to give Transparency International Norway the opportunity to work with anti-corruption work in relation to our local democracy. I'm sorry, President, but I actually think it's necessary! In addition, this is not exactly a good day for privacy, but we can still have hope. So the left-hand side will add up to 2 million. kr extra on Data Protection, because we believe it is an important precaution for privacy and in the debate that is now going to take place in days and years to come. Finally, the left has agreed on something and disagrees with other issues concerning the tightening up of the refugee and asylum field by the government. But it's an irrevocable fact that the numbers have gone down. And when the numbers go down, we want to increase the number of quota refugees. That is why we have invested 500 more quota refugees in our alternative budget than the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e551	The next speaker is the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete, which, as far as I can see, is not in the Chamber. That means we're going to go to Per-Willy Amundsen, who is going to be the next speaker. Per-Willy Amundsen is not in the Chamber either, and the President will then give the floor to... There's gonna be a councillor named Liv Signe Navarsete, so she's gonna be the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e556	The government has seen a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of about 42 billion. kr from 2006 until 2010. It also includes the increase of 1 billion. kr in the context of the 2010 budget’s new ageing period. About half of this is free income. This means that municipalities have a new opportunity to increase their activity when it comes to providing better services to people throughout the country. From the first half of 2005 to the first half of 2010, there have been 70 000 more employment. We have received 16,000 more year-olds in the care and care services, several children are assisted by child protection, and the upgrading of municipal buildings and new buildings provides a better supply for children in kindergartens, schoolchildren and caregivers. Full babysitting means something to people's everyday lives, to families in our country. Next year, within a tighter budget line, the government will give priority to municipalities – SEK 5.7 billion. kr in 2011, calculated in relation to the revised national budget 2010. Of this is 2.75 billion. - free income. There is room for continuing a high activity in Kommune-Noreg. It provides room for expanding service provision as the population increases and changes in age. The budget item has just been added. I've been very clear about that in meeting with the municipalities. Therefore, it is important that they use resources efficiently. From the government's side, we provide a larger community space for action, with a historically low earmark of municipal income. TBU's estimate of the municipalities' results in 2010 is 3 pst. – the same as for 2009. It's also the recommended level of having a healthy economy. The government wants to ensure equivalent living conditions and use resources throughout the country. We want people to choose where they want to go, but then we need to make sure that there are opportunities for bustage, for exploiting natural resources and for creating jobs throughout the country. We will strengthen local and regional growth in areas with low economic growth, where there is a great distance from the market, a one-sided industrial structure, or where we see a decline in the population. It has been claimed in the debate today that centralisation is going as never before. Yeah, maybe. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we in Norway have been partly well closed with Norwegian district policy. We see that our neighboring countries come on study tours to Norway to see how we can help people live and develop good communities throughout our country. I don't want to say that we don't have challenges, but compared to our neighboring countries, the developments in the country are good health. While Norway had grown in 300 out of 430 municipalities, Sweden experienced a decline in the population in 209 out of 290 municipalities. Then we also know that the buset pattern in Sweden is such that only 10 pst. of the population living north of Stockholm. Developments in Norway are not self-reliant, but are the result of fully-witnessed road choices, often driven by the Center Party in close cooperation with the Labour Party and SV – now in the last years of government. The Christian People's Party has a tradition of being busy with districts and district development, and it has also proved itself in good cooperation solutions in the centre of Norwegian policy. The government has several regional and regional policies. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is an important Ministry of Enterprise through the major economic development efforts we make through Innovation Norway, the SIVA and the county municipalities. This has meant that entrepreneurship activity is as high in spread-built areas as in large cities. Our tools also do well in relation to innovation, and that is important in the business of the future. The government is continuing its efforts to combat housing so that more people can get to a safe home. The House Bank will continue strategic cooperation with municipalities with major housing-social challenges – a cooperation that has proved successful. The government, on the other hand, makes provision for several rental locations in the municipalities, but it will continue to have the highest priority for young and disadvantaged people within the framework of the Loan Framework. The fact that people can own their own homes gives security in everyday life, and we will also give children's families a high priority in this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e578	The Minister of Local Affairs is constantly boasting about how much more money local authorities have recently received. When we contact our local politicians and spokesmen around, there is a slightly different picture they report back. What they report back is that there are increasing numbers of people in the municipality of Norway – only in the last 12 months there have been over 62,000 more inhabitants in Norway – there is an ageing population, and a growing demand for services, from both government and population. In addition, there is an increase in pension costs and there is also an increase in interest costs due to a record high debt. My question to the government council is, why don't you add the factors when you're about to boast about how much more money the municipalities have got? Is it because one would probably end up at a minus?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e585	No, it isn't. We've had a real growth in the municipal sector in the last five years, which is very similar to what we've been doing in the past, and compared to what we've been doing to cover the cost of demography. Demographics, as the representative points out, are included in the calculations we make when we calculate what is needed to meet local authorities' spending needs in the coming years. When TBU now provides its figures, they show that the municipalities for 2009 will get a result — estimate as far as, but still — of 3 pst., which is the same as last year. That means there's room for a healthy community economy, and there's room for providing good services and better services in Municipality of Norway than it's been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e590	The Council of State has written an article to me, among others. in Kommunal Report: «Who wants Right Carrots?» It is on our proposal to contribute to providing incentives for voluntary community reunification. I am concerned that all parties in this room – with one exception, namely the Centre Party – are in favour of this type of action. We've seen it in more articles. But it's okay, I understand the council doesn't want to. What I want to challenge the Council of State is when she writes that Greece can start with the rapporteurs in the neighbouring municipalities of Oslo – the right-wing municipalities – if he is to have a merger. Does the Council of State think it is wise that the relatively large municipalities in the Oslo area merge, and that we thus get an even greater gap between small and large municipalities in Norway? Does the Council of State see that there are challenges for municipalities with 600 to 700 inhabitants in view of being a generalist municipality offering equivalent services to the population, in relation to the large municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e597	First of all, I have to correct the impression, and the one that came here, that the Center Party is opposed to a municipal merger. The centre party has never stated, as I know, that we are against a municipal merger, but we are against the coercion of municipalities. We think that the discussions that are going to take place and the processes that need to be taken locally to make a successful municipal consultation. It's not enough to push them over people's heads. There are also many positive effects on small municipalities, including: I guess people are so happy with the services. It's the services it's about, and it's the inhabitants it's about, not the structures of the Municipality of Norway. When it comes to right-wing municipalities, the Right unfortunately – sorry, President – rules over both small and larger municipalities. In my own country, the Right has other things. a former spokesperson, who is now a stammering representative, who has never taken the floor for Honndalen to join Stryn – a tiny municipality in Sogn and Fjordane. One can start there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e604	I want to record the same thread. I asked a written question to the Council of State that was just about this with incentives that needed to get a voluntary community merger. The Council of State answers that she will not propose any measures aimed at providing incentives for this. What is my fear is that by being so passive in relation to such an important theme, the Centre Party is helping to put the whole decision into captivity at the Workers' Party, which has called for coercion. Does the Council of State not see that by acting so passively in relation to this important issue, she is losing the opportunity to participate in deciding such an important debate in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e611	Yes, if the answer is given that we should have a large-scale municipal consultation, the starting point may be what the representative says. If the answer is that Norway as it is now once, with many quite large municipalities to the extent and geography and relatively thin populations, is perhaps more likely to have a differentiated municipal structure, then that answer is not so given. I think that in this debate we need a voice that sees the districts, that sees the long distances, that sees those who get a double distance from the municipal services, who see those who know from experience that when the municipal structure changes, the service structure is often changed – perhaps not the first five years, but the experience shows that it will be in the future. I'm busy with the people and those who live in the districts, and I'm going to keep listening to them. I hope that the Christian People's Party will be with me in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e620	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e623	This autumn there were many leaks before the budget was presented. It is not uncommon for you to have good things to enjoy to the media before the state budget is presented. One of the good things that was leaked to the media was the restrictions that the Workers' Party, represented by the Prime Minister, thought had worked so well in asylum policy, saving 2.5 billion. Norwegian Krone. It is interesting to note that there are in particular two political dogmas that have disappeared from the vocabulary of government and government parties. One is that there is actually a link between asylum rules on the one hand and the number of asylum seekers on the other. It has been realized, but we have had many debates in this room about whether there was a connection. Fortunately, it seems that the government has realized that. It is also true that when asylum figures go down, as they have to some extent done, particularly in the last year of the red-green government, it also affects the budget and public consumption. When the Progress Party has previously made proposals in our alternative state budget, with reference to our alternative foreign law, which will result in far fewer asylum seekers, and thus will also be able to reduce the amount consumed for the reception, residence of asylum seekers, the government has rejected it. Now the government itself uses it as an argument, and that's good. I also hope that, when one sees this context and understands that there is indeed a link between rules on the one hand and economic consumption on the other, one will use it further and further reduce asylum immigration to Norway. For it is a fact that only directly on the budget lines relating to this Committee it is close to 10 billion. kr consumed in this area. After all, there are only small amounts in relation to the large context when we talk about misguided integration policies and too fast immigration, where the total amount is far, far larger. Unfortunately, we don't have numbers where we can put two lines below the answer and say that these are the costs of Norwegian society, but we know that the amount is enormous. It is simply because we know that there is over-use of public benefits among the immigrant population, we know that labour participation is much lower among non-Western immigrants, and especially migrants from the Muslim world. These are things that we know, and that in the long run are going to have major economic consequences for this society. On 1 January 2009, the population of immigrants constituted 552,000 people, according to SSB's conservative estimates, because they have very strict definitions. In the years that come — if you don’t take action — this figure will increase significantly. It will mean, if you do nothing, that the welfare state is fundamentally challenged. It's a fact, but unfortunately it doesn't look like the government has taken it in. The representative of Greece said in his speech that he called for matters from the Council of State Lights on the integration field, and he thought it was sad that no proposals had been made. I do not agree with the representative of Greece at all. I think it is very good that there have been no proposals from the Lighthouse, because when you see what SV is capable of performing from integration policy, there is no example of follow-up. So I hope that it continues to stop getting issues from the Council of State in that field. We really feel that the government is more concerned about walking around and creating a picture of what Norwegian integration policy is like, how the world works from their rosy glasses, but the reality out there – and most people have realized – is that integration policy in Norway is not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e639	The efficiency and quality of management are important for the conclusion of Community solutions. Citizens need to be aware that common resources provide good returns and security for each individual citizen. Efficiency through the use of technology is one of the tools that can provide us with cheaper services, better quality, accessibility and ease of use. The Committee points to a number of areas that have been streamlined through the use of technologies and could be extended. Common solutions such as Altin and eID support under new electronic services. There are over 2.4 million people who use electronic IDs, and we are about to offer electronic IDs at an even higher level of security, making it possible to provide public services that are even more secure than we have today. Technology development gives us many opportunities, but also challenges. Technology knows no borders. This has meant that privacy is an international challenge and cross-border cooperation is necessary. Therefore, it is important that the Data Protection Authority closely monitor technological developments and capacities to be ahead of it, as the Committee notes. The development of everyday data gives us challenges related to information security. It has to get a special focus in the future. The government and the population must be able to trust that sensitive information can neither be manipulated nor diverted. Ensuring the security of ICT systems in government quarters needs to be improved, so I have now engaged the National Safety Authority and an external quality assurance system to ensure that the security of the computer systems in government quarters is upgraded. A forward-looking policy must also take the climate challenge seriously. The government will reduce climate emissions and streamline energy use in state buildings. The State has introduced a ban on the use of oil boilers in new buildings. We have increased energy requirements, and energy efficiency in future buildings will contribute strongly to lower consumption. In the state-building area, we also demand that existing energy limits for new buildings be met, while at the same time demanding energy use in existing building masses. Like the Committee, I consider the work in this area to be important. Quality and availability of services depend on good information for all users. The government is concerned that we should facilitate a good meeting between the Sami user and public administration and the provision of services. To achieve this, targeted efforts are required in Sami languages. Thus, through the Sami language action plan, the government has launched the largest and most systematic efforts for Sami languages. Among other things, because the departure of the Sami language carriers is likely to be greater than the growth rate, work is very important. This may be the biggest challenge of common policy in the future. In the last three years, the government has increased its investment in Sami languages by 23 million. kr over the budget of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church. This is in addition to the efforts of the other departments in Sami languages. In order to meet the requirements of efficiency and productivity both now and in the future, it is important that everyone who can contribute. As the employer in the state tariff area, I have an additional responsibility for achieving the objectives of the IA agreement. It is a pleasure to see that sick leave is going down. However, we have a job to do, especially within Objective 2 of the IA Agreement. We are now launching the third training programme for people with disabilities and higher education. This is a good contribution to the development of human resources in state enterprises. It is important that we gain more experience in opening up working life to the disabled and to a greater extent that this group sees as a labour force resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e659	State council Aasrud admits that data security in central government has been very poor. On the other hand, the Council of State cannot explain the reason for this. Can the Council of State now explain to us what has been done to clean this up, and when does the Council of State have full control over it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e664	It is absolutely right that I have expressed concerns about the data security of the internal network in the government quarter. That's why I have put the National Security Authority, as I said in my post, to carry out a review, so that we get an up-to-date picture of what the situation is like. That report I expect to get in a few weeks' time. Then we have had a total review of what are the computer systems in the government quarter. In addition, good internal control procedures have been developed for the security of the government quarter. I have now engaged an external quality assurance company to make sure that what is to be done is done. In addition, as is known through previous budgets, it is allocated money to increase quality and install necessary equipment in the government quarter, so through those measures I expect that we will get the necessary security in place. But you can never guarantee yourself against future events in the world that we now see around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e669	The government says that you want innovation that can provide more well-being and less administration. In his work on the budget, the Christian People's Party asked the Ministry of Finance how much money the government spends on external consultants, among others. also to public relations agencies. The Ministry of Finance could not answer that question. So that means here's the huge cost that you don't have an overview of in the Ministry of Finance. My simple question is, when you don't have an overview of this, how can you talk about renewal? And how do you get more well-being for the inhabitants and smaller administrations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e676	My department has recently conducted a survey on the use of consultants in the state sector. That study shows that there is a need to review the level of awareness relative to the use of consultants. Then I'm absolutely sure we won't stop using consultants in the public sector. There are some projects that would not be natural for us to have sufficient knowledge of how to implement them, for example: major ICT projects. But for me, it's important that we now go through the experience gathered through that report, so that we can more consciously use consultants where it's right to do so, and even more consciously build up the expertise we need in central government to take the right steps there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e683	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e686	I must admit that I ate my ears when I heard the Council of State Aasrud say that privacy is important. That was a happy statement, especially in a day like this. Then she moved quickly to the level of funding for the Data Protection Authority. Then I think I'm going to use it as an example that the red-green government has made it clear that only one grants money for a purpose – and even for a good purpose – is, as well as the interest and consideration behind it, taken care of. We also see this in the field of industrial development, Innovation Norway, etc. It is believed that only some money has been disappointed by taxpayers and redeployed, there is growth and wealth in the country. In order to stick to the example of data protection, I have to say that it may be even more important to listen to what the Data Protection Authority actually recommends to the government to do on a case-by-case basis. There is no level of funding there, although they could probably also want a slightly larger resource framework to make the supervision part even better and more extensive. With regard to the government’s own data security — which may also be reflected more closely in a day like this — this initiative is taking place in retrospect. The government is running after development. It runs to close holes, and what you could say about the government's data security is that it's event-based, not accident-based. That means you don't have a proactive attitude, you don't do vulnerability analyses properly, and you don't do homework properly enough to see where it can be dangerous. Some speakers have been at the request of the Right to reduce regional food in favour of purely local projects that have a much closer connection with local conditions and local businesses. A total of 800 million have been transferred. kr to what is important for business, not least in the districts, namely roads. We look again at a different approach, because while the Right wants private business, based on ideas, markets and customers, to get its goods out in time and without time games – it creates sustainable growth and prosperity across the country – the red-green approach is to believe that we are creating growth and innovation by strengthening transfers to the state budget. Then it is also quite striking to see that in the area where the state should rule the most, at least have an opinion about, namely the public sector, the initiatives are not being taken. This red-green government can, in terms of efficiency in the public sector, be characterised by two key elements: red tape and stagnation. It also seems that you have completely given up looking at the municipal structure in the light of the fact that the car has been invented, that broadband has come to the country, and that otherwise we have had the telephone for quite a long time. To leave completely to the municipalities themselves to find the way without even assessing effective incentives means that, in fact, in this area too, we have abdicated in terms of bringing forward mechanisms for better use of taxpayers’ funds. To sum up, we can say that the red-green government consists of three parties that have slightly different emphasis in terms of the efficiency and modernisation of the state: SV cannot, the centre party will not, and the Workers' Party will not dare. It's an unfortunate combination. I also want to get a more in-depth comment from the municipal minister, who has not found the debate so interesting that she is here in the Chamber right now. But if she is able to be informed via oral tradition, I would also like to comment more on the violent build-up of debt in the municipalities, and not least on out-of-state pension bombs. Time does not allow to go into detail about this, but not least the accounting concerns that you do not have the real sizes on the table, so that our colleagues in the local government can put in place measures in time to ensure that you do not have to use hard-handed methods later to adapt the available resources to the tasks that, not least, this hall imposes on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e703	First of all, despite claims from the very Right in the Chamber, there is a lot going well with integration in Norway, and there is actually a lot going on from the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion, not least $87 million for this field. And to take Michael Tetzschner's thinking into this post, there's absolutely no reason not to do anything that works. We stimulate the purposes that work, and it's interesting to hear that in the Right you say that money may not be the most important thing, but that you also look at the content. One of the most important states councillors the Lighthouse did before he went on leave, was put down a large sample to just look at how integration policy works, and we get results from that in a short time, that is. the summer of 2011. So then we have an even better basis to figure out what works, and what doesn't work. But most immigrants take an active part in working life and education. They are economically independent, they speak Norwegian, and they contribute to many different arenas in society. We know very well that the children of immigrants are also involved. The government is aware that we have challenges, and I will draw out three areas in this post. One of the major challenges is to ensure the rapid settlement of refugees. This applies in particular to children. Long-term reception is unfortunate both for society and for individuals, and further integration is difficult. To meet this, the government proposes a total investment in the settlement area of well over 70 million. kr. Work is the main means of ensuring good living conditions, ensuring participation and ensuring equality between women and men. But we see great differences in unemployment and employment between different groups of the immigrant population. It is through the introduction system, Norwegian training and the action apparatus in Nav that the great effort is put in place to help people get into work and prevent them from falling out. Close follow-up is needed to ensure that the good results of the municipalities are so far, to remain and to be improved in a slightly more demanding labour market. We also see that immigrants who want to set up their own businesses can face specific challenges, and we are therefore proposing in the 2011 budget to allocate 3 million. kr to strengthen entrepreneurship for immigrants. School is a central arena. There is the potential to increase learning outcomes, not least by preventing high school drop-outs, but also by increasing participation among the youngest children in kindergarten. Because we see that kindergarten is important for children's language training. This is why the trial of free core time, which has now gone over several years of good experience, has been expanded, as proposed by the government. We're proposing a total increase of seven million. kr. Here we also have exciting and important experiences. So the challenges we now face in terms of even better integration, it's possible to do something about them. Through the Action Plan for the Integration and Inclusion of the Immigrant Population, the government has made systematic efforts over several years. That effort has been made by my colleague, Audun Lysbakken, and put further pressure on him by means of economic reinforcement. The offensive effort is continuing into next year with the 2011 budget proposal, where we are proposing to allocate SEK 87 million for inclusion and integration as a whole. It is not just for a sample to be used to find out how best integration works. It's a very important task in itself. However, there are also concrete measures, such as strengthening the housing allowance of the House Bank, what I mentioned about entrepreneurship for adult immigrants, and measures that increase the number of Norwegian hours – just to mention some of what has been proposed by new measures. But knowledge is important, and it is important that we have good knowledge in different areas to know what works, and what does not work, in order to develop policies and instruments in the future. That's why it's important for the samples and the estimation groups we're running. They each contribute in their field of input, and I will mention in particular the new range of integration and inclusion policies. They will look at challenges and opportunities in a future multicultural Norway. They're going to finish their work in the summer of 2011. We're looking forward to the selection input. So our future policy in this area will be based on up-to-date knowledge, and at the same time we will listen to what people are concerned about in the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e729	Next year, many of the injustices in Kommune-Norway will be corrected. There are two factors that contribute significantly to it. One is the review and revision of the cost-balancing of the municipal income system. It's now 15 years since it was last done, and a lot of water has been clean in the ocean since then. Major changes have been made in the priorities of municipalities, and the basis for redistribution has improved considerably. The objective is to fully reconcile the differences between municipalities in the cost of producing the services to be provided by citizens. This is a good social democratic grip, a redistribution that ensures small differences and contributes to an equivalent starting point for the well-being of the country. It will also help to ensure that the level of service will be more equivalent. The second important step is the inclusion of kindergartens in the municipality’s framework funding. After a systematic and targeted effort by the majority government, we can see that we have achieved the goal: a legal, real right to kindergarten for everyone who wants it. It was done by earmarking funds to ensure capacity building across the country. The time has now come for municipalities to take over the responsibility for continuing this important welfare area. When we now transfer nearly 30 billion dollars to the free income of municipalities, the share of free income for municipalities is historically high. 215 B.C.E. municipalities may freely dispose of the most important welfare tasks next year. It is an important democratic matter. Fortunately, local democracy is strong in this country. Local self-government is based on the values of freedom, participation and efficiency. It is also a democratic requirement that those who experience the consequences of a policy should also have a strong influence. A high proportion of free income allows local people to prioritise according to their needs and assumptions in their own municipality. It's still the way that those who wear the shoe know where it prints the most. The Contracting Party chooses to write in its alternative budget that: «the power and tasks of the State shall be reduced and the freedom to make choices of its own shall be vested in the individual person». Then I wonder about the solutions that are prescribed. The party will introduce a state bureaucratic single-price model for all basic welfare services, where investors will be paid to provide services to local residents. The consequence is that the power is moved away from the individual citizen and over to the state, i.e. more government. The local government will be left with very little influence, and the state bureaucracy will be advised. The freedom of choice is, of course, linked to the fact that those who have the most money can get a better offer than those who are not so well provided financially. I hear that the representative, Mr Hagesetter, explains how this should be done, and compares it with unemployment. So in what the Progress Party describes as a small bureaucratic model, they choose the Nav model as a model for how to do this in practice. On the right hand side, the election campaign, which I was about to do in line with the representative of Greece, has begun by taking the recipe from Sweden and presenting social-democratic solutions – as if it were something that the Right has stood on the barricades to fight through here in the country! Small differences are the new mantra from the Right. It's rhetoric and little politics. In my reply to the representative of Greece, I had a problem with the question of whether the financial arrangements they prescribe for the municipalities would lead to greater differences. That question left Greece to answer. He chooses not to go in and recognize the fact that the large differences between the incomes of municipalities also give rise to significant differences in the provision of welfare, i.e. greater differences between people in this country. The proposals and remarks made by the parties to the budget clearly show the difference between the government parties and the blue-blue opposition. The opposition will secure the municipalities that already have the most, through less redistribution of tax revenue – more to those municipalities that already have a lot, and thus a better offer to those who have the best offer from before. We, who represent the government parties, still believe in a spirit of solidarity, and that it is the one who has the strongest back that still has to bear the heaviest burden. That's what makes less difference, and less difference is one of the pillars on which we build this welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e754	The red-green government is pursuing a policy that is totally destructive to the districts. The centre party manages to get a few dollars for agriculture, but it is in no way the rescue for the districts. What the districts are missing is infrastructure construction. When in recent years we have seen a deterioration in the local economy, and not least what we see in the specialist services and the red-green government's great glow when it comes to shutting down the local hospitals and centralising the specialist services, it's almost a wonder that there are people in the districts. I ask myself, why should people establish themselves in my municipality of residence, Selje – a municipality with a sluggish municipal economy and a large debt, a bad road and four hours to the nearest hospital, which becomes the reality if the government shuts down local hospitals in the county? I can't believe that someone can call what's happening right now, too good district policy, even if representatives from the government party claim that the public has never spent more money than today. None of them will talk about the cost increase that has been. I think it is relevant to ask questions about where the money has been. They didn't come to school. They didn't come to the elderly. There's no more money going on, and hospitals are laying them down. The answer is that it is becoming an ever - increasing bureaucracy. We in the Progress Party believe it is absolutely necessary to renew the public sector, reduce bureaucracy, put an end to the county council and restructure the municipality of Norway. Then we can have a good school and an elderly care as a skin, but then, as they are in government offices today, they have to find other jobs. If we want to renew Norway, we will take over the government offices. The committee met with the country's officials last Thursday, and we were informed that many municipalities were struggling financially with the resource-requiring services system. It is a fact that over several years, municipalities have experienced a significant increase in expenditure when it comes to people who need resource-requiring services. Local authorities experience complex situations where extensive care needs lead to a very long stretch of resources. We note that the increase in the number of people under 67 who receive such services, and their care needs, has increased sharply. The Progress Party would like people with a need for resource-requiring services to be provided by competent and dedicated care workers. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the scope for top funding for resource-required services in combination with a simultaneous improvement of the municipalities’ economy with ear-marked means of strengthening care for the elderly. We do this to ensure that both those over and those under the age of 67 are given a professional defence offer. The Progress Party indicates that the Government Party in the State budget for 2010 decided to reduce the top level funding for resource-requiring services by reducing the compensation rate from 85 pst. until 80 p.m., and that the point of entry was significantly raised more than the rise in wages and prices should occur. The Progress Party indicates that this weakening has made it harder for municipalities to offer this group a good deal. The Progress Party wants to reverse this decision and refers to our alternative state budget where we propose an increase of the compensation rate from 80 pst. to 85 pst. We also want to strengthen the system further by reducing the entry point from NOK 895000 to NOK 800000 per user. In the long term, we want to gradually lower the entry point of this financing mechanism to NOK 400000. The progress point has seen an increase in the yield of 700 million. kr in relation to the government's proposal to cover this, and we will follow up with additional funds in the revised national budget if the demand for these services so requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e775	With all due respect for the representative, Mr Starheim, I must say that for the political debate it could be worthwhile that we did not produce everything so black in Norway, as was done in previous speeches. It's strange to hear that it's produced from Stortinget's pulpit, like that in the municipal sector, in the welfare sector and in the transport sector, i.e. roads, almost nothing has happened in recent years. You have to drive a lot of detours between Oslo and Hamar, for example. in a car, if you want to politically assume that there are no things happening. There's a lot going on. You can agree or disagree with the volume, but that there is a lot of work out now to build both well-being and transportation, there should be no doubt about it. So to the field for which I am responsible in the government, which concerns the work of this committee, the immigration and refugee policy. There are still three main elements of the work that is now being done by the government towards the immigration field, which I want to bring forward, and which are reflected well in the budget. All the key elements and measures now in place contribute to a reduction in the number of asylum seekers in Norway. But I want to stress very strongly that many of the measures that have been put in place, and the result we see, also help to increase the focus on what needs to be called the more humane side of how we deal with people who are in a very difficult situation, coming to Norway. The fact that we have reduced the processing time, which is considerably too high in asylum matters, means not only that we should be able to get people out of the country quickly, but that also means that people quickly get a yes. I also believe that one of the most important humane actions we can do, especially for children, is to get a faster procedure. The proposal that comes from the government now, and the effort we are making towards dealing with it, concerns the budget, but we also need to meet those who believe that public services do not just solve with more money. I want to say that there are significant proposals for reforming, and we have taken action in the field of asylum by moving some of the tasks from the police to the UDI. At the same time, however, we see that giving UDI and UNE increased procedural capacity, which we have actually done in recent years, also gives effect to the number of asylum cases – and how many have been untreated. That is why I totally disagree with the alternative budget of the Progress Party in particular, which would help to get into the Foreign Affairs Directorate and probably cut up to 300 posts from the new year. I believe that this is the greatest threat in terms of losing control of asylum policy in Norway if we were to do something like that. This could help us to get a growth in the number of asylum seekers, because people would come to Norway in the belief that asylum cases are not being treated here, and that for that reason you can just stay somewhere in society – and you have basically cut most of the housing stuff from that side too. But I will warn very strongly against it. The second element of the procedure and the continuation of the procedure, in addition to the EFFEKT programme, where there is considerable initiative, is to be able to hold back the pressure to make decisions effective. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has a great responsibility to settle those who get a yes, but it is vital that we get up the number of residents in the municipalities. But it is all the more important that those who have received a no are returned. I have to say that when we look back on the year so far, we see that we have reached the targets for return. That we now want to increase the appropriations for return work by 145 million. kr, is important, so that we can keep up the pressure and send a clear signal that you get no on the asylum application, that you don't need to be here, then the return is the answer. I am pleased that we also see that voluntary returns are increasing. All in all, this gives room for us to be able to raise the debate over how we can take care of all the children who come to Norway, especially those who sit for a long time and wait. I see that the committee is asking for a response to that, and I'm going to address it in the big message that's been notified, about children on the run. There is a group of people out in the big world who come to Norway, who need more protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e786	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e789	It is interesting to note that when the Progress Party cuts in the field of asylum due to lower immigration rates as a result of our policies, it is irresponsible. When the government does the same thing, it's fine. It's just interesting to record that you base that argument. But that's not what I want to record. I want to challenge the Council of State to look up a little from the chapters and posts of the State budget and look at the long-term challenges Norway faces when we experience such extensive immigration as Norway actually does. On 1 January this year, there were 552,000 immigrants in Norway, i.e. those with a migrant background, and in the years to come, the numbers will increase dramatically. What will that do to the Norwegian community? If you don't want to control this, is it okay to let it scour and go? In all other areas, sustainable development is based on so-called sustainable development, which is not what you do here. Does the Council of State have any thoughts about the long-term nature of immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e796	I do, but I think I have a completely different starting point than the representative Amundsen. And my starting point is not such fundamental scepticism to people coming from other celestial strata. It is not a fundamental mistrust that people from other countries live in Norway, rather on the contrary. First of all, I think you are very much dependent on it in a globalized world, and that you can manage to create a society where diversity grows, both to get more labour and also to get the best out of the workforce that exists. The great developments and the great features of how societies develop and what is created globally will not happen unilaterally at the hands of the nation, but in a global and multicultural perspective. That's why I see opportunities in this landscape when I look into the future, not just horrors. I believe that having a debate on the benefits could help to facilitate integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e801	What I'm wondering is, if you're basing on the population projections of the SSB, it's not like we have tens of thousands more immigrants in Norway for a few years into the future. It's about hundreds of thousands, even millions. In fact, in the long term — in the long term — people with a migrant background can actually become a majority in Norwegian society. It is clear that it will represent a completely radical transformation in Norwegian society. Norwegian society will face entirely different challenges on the day that this might happen. Is it just okay, or should you have a policy to meet this? – because you don't have that at all today. Today, this policy is managed from year to year and from budget to budget, instead of having some long-term objectives and some long-term ideas about this that will fundamentally change Norwegian society. Is this just okay, the evolution we see?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e806	When I hear the question, I understand that the Progress Party is spinning in immigration policy, because it is seen that the government has a good hand, among other things. arrivals of asylum. It's pretty clear that they're almost halved during this year, we're getting at about 10,000 in total. But talking about a flood to Norway, when there are 10,000 asylum seekers coming to the country, I have problems with it. I believe that such a rich society and a society as well-developed as Norway must tolerate it. Then there are significant restrictions on having another type of residence in this country, including in the family matters, and which, in my opinion, contribute to good control and development in this field. But I want to stress that I don't have any faith in a Norway that for the future isolates itself completely, and builds walls, and almost on autopilot says that those who come from other countries, you don't want anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e815	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the initiative he has taken to get a big message about children on the run. I think it's going to be one of the most important debates we're going to have in this field in this room for a long time. We know that many minor asylum seekers are in an incredibly vulnerable situation. We know that in the last ten years, between 300 and 400 children have disappeared from asylum recipients, which we cannot explain. There is a great danger that many of these children have been, or are, exposed to human trafficking — or slavery, which is the right word for it. Has the Minister of Justice already planned some measures, one way to go, to meet these very children?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e824	First of all, I believe that the representative, Mr Bekkewold, might address the most important issue of Norwegian refugee policy. It's not about how many asylum seekers come to Norway, whether it's 8 000 or 10,000, or how much we give, or something like that. So the most vulnerable people are children down to the age of ten, who travel alone, and where there are not responsible adults who are behind, but irresponsible, criminal adults who are willing to do almost anything to get money, and use children as tools. This year, up to 65 children have disappeared from reception. Thirteen of them have come into being. We don't know where the others are. These are very difficult tasks, but there are many measures we can take. We had a thematic meeting on this at Hvalstad the other day, because it is an important part of the big message coming, and there were important proposals for action. One measure that we can look at is how children become residents, how quickly children become residents, and what kind of adult care they actually have. Because it's the main driving force for reporting and doing something.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e833	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e836	We have unsolved tasks in Norway, but when the representative Hagesetter in the debate uses the words 'unfathomably poor' about the governance of Norwegian society, and the party colleague Åge Starheim follows up by stamping 42 billion. kr more to the municipalities since 2005 as ‘total destructive’, it is quite clear that we do not have the same sense of reality. I would like to remind you that for the second consecutive year, the United Nations has chosen Norway as the world's best country to live in. Free school, healthcare for everyone and financial support for those who get sick or do not get a job are examples of services and common resources that are funded by everyone contributing according to their ability. At the same time, we have a working and business life with strong organisations, and the state as an active third party. It gives business good, predictable framework conditions. Norway is ranked as the eighth best country to operate in the World Bank’s Doing Business index. Norway is therefore at the top of the world both in terms of well-being and in terms of competitiveness and innovation. We combine a large public sector with a business that in many areas is the foremost in the world. Further development of the Norwegian model is the main project of the Workers' Party. When the representative of Greece from the Right asks for vision, that's our answer. We're not in the goal, and we never get into the goal. If the public sector is to be able to provide good services and to be uplifted in the future, we need to constantly work on renewing, strengthening and improving. An important part of this is the introduction of new technologies. In a number of departments, this has already resulted in significant cost savings and improved quality of service. Thanks to good network solutions, the Loan Fund has halved the processing time and, at the same time, reduced its operating costs by almost one sixth since 2005. Norwegian businesses have savings equivalent to 660 annual works using electronic reporting in Altinn. And after the tax administration started offering pre-filled tax returns, about 800 annual works are released to assist people in other ways, and strengthen their efforts against tax evasion. What kind of vision is that opposition expressed in its alternate budgets? In its comments, the Progress Party refers quite consistently to the public sector as ‘bureaucratic’ and public servants as ‘bureaucratic’. The government has provided more staff in Nav, colleges and universities, police and courts, child protection and the Road Administration. It provides important services and a better offer. When the Progress Party wants to have a big cut in the so-called bureaucracy, it will go beyond services of importance to people. A gruesome example is the cuts both the Right and the Advance Party propose in the State Children’s Protection Agency, 400 million respectively. and 500 million. kr. The progress party also proposes cut of 730 million. kr on the budgets of the Skatetaten, the Tolletaten and the Financial Supervisory Authority. It not only affects the operation of these departments, it weakens control in key areas of society. How will it benefit the Norwegian society to reduce the control of profit-criminals and tax havens to combat tax evasion? The Right Party and the Advance Party also propose to place the House of Ten Committee in the budget of the year, which has had a sharp increase in the number of cases. The LVC contributes to the relaxation of the ordinary legal system and to the rapid and reasonable resolution of house rental visas. There is an arrangement that all parties, both landlords and tenants, seem satisfied with. What is the Right Party and the Advance Party want to achieve with the cut in the House Chair Committee? Later today, the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded to Chinese democracy champion Liu Xiaobo. To raise your eyes is always useful, and perhaps especially on a day when the representative Bekkevold and others use the word forced on decisions taken by Norwegian elected representatives. The Labour Party is not a supporter of merging municipalities against their will, but it would be irresponsible not to discuss the framework conditions for Norwegian local democracy and welfare production in the municipalities. Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian government are facing major challenges, but if we look around, we have reason for optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e858	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e861	Justice and community are the framework for the 2011 State budget. Community solutions shall form the basis for the public to perform welfare tasks in the fields of health, care and education. One of the most important tasks for municipalities is municipal child protection. The children who need extra follow-up somehow need to be seen and get the help they need. Children who are in a vulnerable situation shall be confident that society is preparing for them. Unfortunately, we can't always do this. However, the 2011 government budget provides a boost for child protection. Of the 390 million. SEK until child protection is 240 million. kr earmarked municipal child protection. In addition, the counties receive 10 million. kr. This allows matters to be dealt with more quickly. The government has announced three concrete actions to improve child protection: we need to have a full review of child protection and provide a key message to discuss the challenges and propose new solutions. We will debate whether there is too much focus on the biological principle and whether this is at the expense of the child's best. We need more knowledge about the challenges of child protection. For this reason, State Councillor Lysbakken has set up a Children's Protection Panel consisting of professional communities and people with experience from all aspects of child protection and is to provide advice on the issue of child care. The party of progress does not understand the whole of child protection. They're spending 500 million. kr more on child protection, but they cut 415 million. kr in another area, including in state child protection, such as foster homes, or measures for children in need of assistance. They're also cutting in the counties at 60 million. kr, so that there is a longer queue in the counties to take decisions that would have been important for children in a difficult situation. Right-wing intervention in the budget will give us a completely different child protection in the future. They redispatch funds from state child protection — without increasing the framework. This means that we lose part of the diversity of child protection and will lead to cuts in state institutions and foster homes. Children have different needs and, therefore, a variety of offers is required to provide the best possible range of services for the individual child. With the budget of the Progress Party and the Right, this will not be possible. The government has strengthened the transfers to municipal child protection and will continue to do so in the years to come. In recent years, the government has increased both the appropriations and the number of employees in the field of child protection. The reorganisation of child protection was carried out by the last bourgeois government. Of course, for the sake of the children, we will consider today's organisation, to find the organisation that will provide more children with the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e876	The debate on immigration often revolves around the road to Norway for one of the smallest groups here – asylum seekers. Well, it's so important how we treat those who come here and who are going to start a new life in freedom. The government has since the accession increased the appropriations for integration, from 110 million. SEK in 2006 to SEK 860 million. kr in year. This article was actually to be about how we, in spite of good results in Norway, have to be even better. But after VG's sensational lookup today, under the heading «Forcing municipalities to refugee-yes», I choose to stay in residence as a theme. «Everyone lives in a municipality» – quote from the Statistical Central Bureau. Is it obvious? Not for everyone. Some come to Norway and seek asylum. A little under half, plus-minus, gets a stay because they meet the requirements of protection in line with international human rights. Most are welcome in Norwegian municipalities, but not all. Someone stays passive at reception because no one wants them. There are more single minors and people with disabilities than others. So the sum of the municipalities' yes and no to the settlement is not enough. There is an unworthy situation in the world's richest country. It inhibits integration and cannot continue. Next year new 87 million will be allocated. kr for, among others to stimulate faster settlement. But experience is not enough. Many municipalities are conscious of their responsibility and accept more than they would otherwise have, because other municipalities do not accept anyone. Since 1999, Denmark has had a system in which municipalities cooperate on a regional basis to distribute new residents among themselves. That is what this is all about in Norway too. The experience from Denmark is positive. They have been given a better geographical distribution of new residents; several become residents of the original municipality of residence. In the Drammen Labour Party, which I belong to, we finished this debate 20 years ago. We made a decision of principle to accept those whom we are asked for, because it is our duty as fellow humans. The drama is now run by the Right and Advance Party, but even under bourgeois rule, the municipality is boasted by the IMFI to be one of the “beststingene” in Buskerud on settlement. I find it sad that a large newspaper that VG today chooses to focus on coercion and conflict, when what is planned can actually be better for the municipalities – deportation municipalities can reverse a negative trend by settling refugees. By cooperating regionally, municipalities can gain experience from each other, benefit to the best of their ability and stand stronger in a negotiating position with the State. My prophecy is that we are going to have a new system that is better for the municipalities, better for the refugees, and a welfare society worth more than today's tendency to sort people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e889	The government has proposed earmarking 240 million. kr to municipal child protection in 2011. We in the Christian People's Party have said we are pleased that the government thus acknowledges the need for strengthening municipal child protection. It is good that the government sees the need for exceptional measures if we are to achieve a real increase in the number of first line staff – an actual capacity extension. But what the Christian People's Party has been concerned about is that we miss a long-term and binding escalation that meets the needs of the municipalities for predictability and long-termity. What we are told about is that it is difficult for municipalities to use the funds to create new jobs, simply because the municipalities do not know whether these funds will continue for 2012, 2013, etc. It is not difficult to understand the fear of creating new jobs that municipalities may not be able to finance after 2011. The government's lack of commitment beyond 2011 thus creates challenges for municipalities. In addition, we have been informed that a number of municipalities are afraid that the scheme will create unnecessary paperwork and resource use at administration, and that it will take too long before the funds reach the municipal child protection services. The Christian People's Party has therefore asked the government to ensure that the funds are used properly, that the funds reach as quickly as possible, and that the allocation leads to real capacity expansion in municipal child protection. We hope the Council of State will give its assurance that the municipalities can expect to receive these funds even after 2011. The Christian People's Party has proposed additional funding for municipal child protection in our alternative budget – 200 million. kr in addition to the government's strength. Municipal child protection must have enough resources, the capacity must be large enough. We can't live with the fact that concerns messages are not followed up, that children who need help don't get them, or that the help is too late. One child who is in line or is not followed up at the right time is one child too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e904	The municipalities are the local welfare producer of our inhabitants. 70 pst. by the services provided in the local government sector. The way in which municipalities are given the opportunity to take action and to exercise their mandate as independent entities is important. It's an important principle discussion. In the big message that we have started working with now, the relationship between the state and the municipality is discussed. There has been a strong growth in government supervision — and governance — since the right-wing government created a large number of directorates and supervision, justly decentralisedly located, all honoured for it, but nevertheless states that it is perceived as fragmented and that the role of regional coordination has been more difficult. Increased government bureaucracy also requires increased municipal bureaucracy, because supervision often goes on the system and not on the final user – if the child in kindergarten or in school gets good instruction. No, one should document the system for providing good services. We have to go through and see if we control too much. Own control in municipalities is important in this context. We have a choice that has provided 85 recommendations. They work with the municipalities, and we do the same in the department. If the municipality has, and when the municipality has, good self-control, we must also discuss whether the state's supervision and detailed regulation should be facilitated. I believe that strong sectoral interests, if they are not held against each other by a broad prioritisation, can be a shadow for community development. It applies both in the area of welfare and, not least, in relation to having the right tools and policies to achieve equivalent services and a good rural and regional policy to promote growth throughout the country. There is a debate that Stortinget will be invited to attend, and I look forward to discussing them further with Stortinget. The left raised support for Transparency – openness in the municipal sector, transparency, is important. I was yesterday at a seminar that Transparency arranged here in Oslo, and I was just talking about it. It is definitely one thing that we can also discuss further with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e917	Now I was just going to sum up the debate by saying thank you for a good debate, because we were short and able to finish in time – but now I see that there has become a long list of speakers after me too. I was going to answer Michael Tetzschner a question that I did not get answered in my reply, the question of some issues in which we have contributed to more solidarity in refugee policy. Yes, we have resumed language training in the reception of asylum – against the will of the Right. We have made sure that single minor asylum seekers are handled in a good way by child protection – against the will of the Right. We have guaranteed equal treatment for people who are protected by the Refugee Convention and by those who are protected by the danger of return. There we have secured equal treatment, which is a strengthening – against the will of the Right. And we have provided a system for long-term children – against the will of the Right. So there's a lot of points here. I believe that on what goes on in terms of efficiency, what you might call innovation, public sector simplification, on what goes on in ICT capabilities, we're going to have a slightly wider debate on at a little later. There are tremendous possibilities. We believe that from the government we do a very decent job in that field, but it is certainly so that we could discuss it and invite it to a broader discussion between both the right and the left. We're very clear on some of the things that we're opposed to, but with regard to the things that we're agreed on, we should develop the cooperation well. There are also great opportunities for coordination in the municipal sector, where we also have some work to do. The effort to put in place a national standard on an eID, a national ID card, is also a matter for the entire Committee to conclude. There's a job done by the government, and we say here we just have to get to the goal as quickly as possible. Finally, I would just like to say one thing that has not been debated here, but that has been mentioned by several different people. That is what is going on in improving the energy efficiency of buildings. That's where State Building does a huge job. The Minister of Local Affairs has introduced and introduced new legislation, which was phased in from 1 July of this year, requiring energy efficiency improvement in buildings. Now we are saying that both in the State sector and in the work we are going to do by the Committee and the government on the follow-up to the Arnstad Committee's proposal for energy efficiency improvement in buildings, we are coming back. This is something that will be important in the climate work of the year to come. Then again I just want to say a thousand thanks for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e930	At the end of the debate, when I signed up for another post, it was not to be included in the party political declarations, but because I simply wanted a concrete answer to a question I raised earlier in the debate, as the Council of State did not find it possible to be in the Chamber. There were two issues in the municipal sector that should worry those who are responsible, including the Stortinget. One is: does it not also concern the Council of State to see an uncontrolled build-up of debt that makes the future local economy highly vulnerable to later interest rates? The second, which has a good deal of technology, but unfortunately also a good deal of real economy in itself, is the accounting for pension liabilities, which are an unexploited bomb today, and which can prove to be of real economic significance in the long term. I would like the Council of State of Navarsete to comment on this when the question is asked in such concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e939	First I want to regret that I have had to go out and into the hall. The alternative was that I had been away all day. I have had an infection which means that I am not completely in shape, but I have still found it advisable to be here. I am sorry that I have not received everything for that reason. Of course, debt-building in the local government sector is worrying, but perhaps not as worrying as it can get the impression when you look at the grosss. When you look at what kind of debt it is, you can see that it's about debt linked to the interest compensation scheme, where the government pays the interest. A large part is associated with the so-called VAR schemes, renovations, etc., which the users of the services, the inhabitants, pay. There are also some other types of debt that do not necessarily burden the municipal budgets. That said, over the last few years, there has been a growth in the debt burden on the local government budget. There is an optimism in the municipal sector after the red-green government took over. We see it very clearly: While the Right was sitting with the Minister of State, there was a focus on cutting and cutting, and hardly necessary maintenance was done. We have now had a major rehabilitation in the municipal sector. Of course, there's still a lot left. A great effort to get all the kids into kindergarten, to have full kindergarten coverage, has called for many new buildings – also for us to get better schools for all the kids who come to, for us to get good construction, for the elderly care to be extended, and also for the renovation of other municipal estates. We follow closely and, of course, through the budgets we present, ensure that there is room both for good operation and for the investment obligations of the municipalities. Then the municipalities as self-employed units have a self-employed responsibility to ensure that the investments you make are within the framework of your own, and that you also see that you can take care of the obligations. Of course, when it comes to pension accounting, we have a dialogue with municipalities. We follow developments very closely to ensure that this is not what is referred to as a ‘bomb’ in the future. We see that there are some challenges to it, but, as I said, we have good dialogue with KS and the local government sector on how to meet those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e954	The President wants the Council of State to be improved. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e972	I'll be very brief. I just want to make sure that the Progress Party wants to be able to voice against the cap. 571 item 60 and request that a vote be taken on that item.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e977	It's registered. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1639]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e995	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1639]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1011	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity for a change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Gjermund Hageseter. It appears that the Storting will complete its negotiations in 10–15 minutes, and that the vote will be concluded approximately. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 12:15.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1020	I don't think there would be a basis for having a long debate on this matter. There is a broad multiplicity and a collective committee in most areas. This is just a minority proposal, which I would like to re-examine. If it were to be voted down, it would probably be a joint committee that would join the draft law by the government. There are also two proposals that are alerts will be issued from the Left. I assume that the Left will do something for themselves. But I would like the Progress Party to say big group to support both proposal No. 2 and proposal No. Three, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1027	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1030	In the light of further events beyond the afternoon, I will also be brief. I only have two comments, but they have a certain meaning. Firstly, our proposal is based on an independent conclusion to consider the concerns of private interests. Here is a point that there may be private interests that may be burdensome, even if they are not related to privacy. Therefore it would have strengthened the law and the protection of private rights and interests if one had followed the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The other thing I don't want to go unannounced is that this case comes in time because we get reports from Kommune-Norway that there are developing informal contact forums that bind the subsequent proceedings in the elected bodies. Of course, if it gets more widespread, there's no strength for local democracy, because that means that the elected body becomes a sand-inspiring agency. Nor will it be of particular interest to insist on transparency, if the decision has already been taken in the closed rooms. So, after the adoption of this law, it is quite clear that this so-called dialogue forum should cease.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1039	When so many representatives gather in the hall, there's a little bit of anxiety in that phase. But we still have one more speaker and ask for respect for the speaker who will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1042	Yes, I'll try to attract all the attention to the pulpit. I'm not going to make any long posts, but I'm going to briefly explain why the Left votes as we vote, because we're not represented in the committee and we don't have the opportunity to write comments. I just want to refer to the example of Larvik, as the representative Tetzschner also mentioned. There have been established so-called dialogue forums or budget conferences or other types of forums that I believe are clear offences, even as the law is today, Section 30 of the Municipal Act, which states that elected bodies deal with their cases and make all their decisions in meetings. The reason why the Left votes in favour of the government's proposal is that we regard the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party as restrictive. They have wisely mentioned privacy, but I believe privacy is well protected in the law, in the paragraph before and elsewhere in the law, so it is not necessary to mention it in this context. That is why we are voting in favour of the government's proposal, which we consider to be the most open proposal. Then we have put in two proposals, which have been sent for major consideration, and I want to promote them here. One concerns transparency in control committees. The Left presented a proposal for a representative on open meetings of the Control Committee in 2009. The majority agreed on the main principles of having open meetings. A sample was then reduced. The summary in the proposal from the Ministry states: ‘The Ministry assesses how the recommendations of the working group should be followed up.’ [[...]] We believe that there must be clearer information from this room about what we want, namely open control. That is why we have proposed it. The last proposal concerns transparency in general in the country. Today, we see that the state organises itself in many different forms of organisation, which means that transparency law does not apply – from cultural councils, research councils, health companies and other types of AS that actually manage public funds. We want there to be much greater transparency associated with this. We want an overall review to look at how more transparency can be practised in other forms of organisation than what is traditionally covered in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1065	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1640]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1075	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1083	A total of 25 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6-9, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right-wing proposals No. 10-23, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 24, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 25, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities receive adequate compensation for expenditure on resource-intensive services in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1119	There is a vote on proposal No. 24 from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the rules on day-to-day pay so that non-residents who receive a daily allowance do not lose them if they start with Norwegian training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1134	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10–23, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to look at the situation of municipalities without continental connections and to assess new cost keys for cost-balancing presented in the context of the Municipal Proposition for 2012.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to assess how to ensure a sufficient number of apprenticeship places, and to submit a case to the Stortinget, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to repeal the Act on Supplementary Social Security for Short Butide Persons in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for the liquidation of county offices and to replace these posts by a separate administrative court.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a revision of the Financial Assistance Regulation for persons in receipt of State benefits so that benefits cannot be provided until the applicant has contributed to making his ID known to the authorities.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer a case to the Stortinget for the closure of the Foreign Office, where responsibility for the review procedure is transferred to the Ministry of Justice.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate the Regional Development Competence Centre during 2011.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close the IMFI and transfer the tasks to the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a nationwide language mapping project as soon as possible in order to get the best possible picture of minority children’s language skills.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government, at the latest in the context of the revised 2011 national budget, to submit proposals for the launch of mandatory health control in the context of the 4-year control, in order to detect the sexual mutilation of children from land and land where there is a risk of such an infringement being carried out.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close the Contact Committee between immigrants and the authorities from 1 January 2011.’» [[KIM]] Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to dissolve the fund of the state-funded Same People’s Fund and to return the money to donors unabated.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to terminate the Competence Centre for the Rights of the Aborigines’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to dissolve the State-funded Romani Fund and return the money to the donors unabated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1218	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of the procedures for the forwarding and follow-up to the State Attorney of criminal offences resulting from the proceedings and the asylum interview in UDI and UNE.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal that the language mapping system of four-year-olds be continued and applied throughout the country.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1242	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 8, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish an instruction authority for the government towards UNE on issues of principle, similar to the arrangement existing against UDI.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close the House Lease Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1264	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess whether, and if so how, return agreements may be included in aid agreements with the country concerned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1280	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1283	President! I would like to vote against proposal No. 5, so I would split the voting. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions. 1, 2 and 4 now, and on proposal No. Five separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1290	Then we try again and see if the sound system is with us. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals involving equal treatment of the municipalities in the action zone.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more return agreements to be put in place to enable groundless asylum seekers to be returned.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that private schools are given the opportunity to apply for funds from the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings on equal terms with the public school.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e1320	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider turning the aid over the cap. 821 entry 71 from migrant organisations based on the country of origin to non-governmental organisations working in integration in the local environment. The Ministry must carry out checks on the resources allocated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e2763	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e4913	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e4977	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e5483	Three proposals have been made during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left-wing Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting on page 6, while the proposals No. 2 and 3 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 2, from the left, says: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to review the rules on the public meeting of the State for the purpose of increasing public awareness.’ Proposal No. 3, from the left, says: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the municipal law in order to ensure that the meetings of the control committee are, as a general rule, held for open doors.’ In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be put on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e5571	There is an alternative to voting between the Committee's position on Section 31. 5 and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e5640	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e5651	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-10.ana.ud2390e5663	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
