ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e55	The called alternates, for Oslo Kristin Vinje and for Rogaland County Marit Amundsen, have taken their seats. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for leave of the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten on the 7th and 8th of December to attend the Nordic Council Bureau meeting in Majvik, Finland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e81	Kjell Arvid Svendsen is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e97	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 95 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Councillor Rigmor Aasrud 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines in response to contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines in response to contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e108	Today, we are discussing the budget of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. At my discretion, there is an important budget, which affects an incredible number of people. At the same time, there are also some concerns related to this, which the Progress Party and I are taking on board. It is worrying that 800,000 people in working life are out of work. It is true that some people are too sick and do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. Of course, we'll take good care of them. We're going to ensure a good income. It is not the case that some from the left are trying to claim that the budget of the Progress Party means a bulwark against those benefits. But what worries us is that there are 78 000 people with disabilities who want to enter the labour market and who do not get the necessary help, support and the necessary opportunities to contribute to their working capacity. It is about all the young people who are struggling with mental problems and who do not get the necessary follow-up and organisation to get back to work. I've been around and visiting many of these young people this summer, considering many of the offers that should have been in place to help young people with mental illness get back to work. The problem is that many of these offers have been stopped, or it is just before they are stopped, because of lack of appropriations. I was in my own municipality of residence, Verdal, and I visited an Inn on the tunet business, where young people have really been caught up in mental illness. The reason why I'm using this example is that this group is the second largest group among the sick. It's one of the largest groups among the underprivileged. We can't afford not to contact this group and give them the opportunity to participate in the world of work. For example, they have received 18 young people with varying mental problems, who have put up concrete work training for them, have entered into dialogue with local businesses to get jobs to get them into the ordinary labour market. On 1 March 2010, after this company had managed to get 16 out of 18 pieces into normal working life, Nav says: We don't have any more resources, we can't support this offer anymore. The result was a stop in the offer, no one else gets the opportunity to participate, and the young people who were waiting to get the necessary help, got back into a life of inaction. As one of the young people I met said, "I don't know if I can stand in this line anymore and wait for society to have no use for me, and that I'll only accept disability benefits." Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Progress Party has put resources in place to ensure increased reactivation of the disabled, bringing them back to work. We are putting more money into the tune, which is a good measure, and with which we know many other countries have good experience. What matters to us is not – take the girl – Marit, who contacted me yesterday, who has suffered serious traffic damage and tried 16 times to get back to work. It's established that she has zero working ability. We're not going to do anything about Marit's benefits, but we're going to help those young people who want to get back to work. Unfortunately, today's policy has not been good enough. You can't see the whole thing, you can't help all those who want to get back, who instead are transferred to passive benefits. The Progress Party also notes that government parties are making a dramatic cut in action places. It's a cut of 7,100 places from last year. I am proud that the Progress Party in this draft budget is putting in place increased appropriations, maintaining more places, and that we are strengthening it by 9 100 more places than the government is adding. Anyone who was at the hearing of the committee when we had a consultation on the budget probably got the clear signals that came, both from the growing businesses, from the reintroduction companies and from several others. If you don't have increased efforts in this area, it means increased exclusion, increased disability, fewer people get help. I was disappointed when I discussed this issue earlier this fall in the NRK with the representative forsberg, who said that the reason for doing these tightenings is that it is a tightening budget. What are the restrictions on helping people back to work? What are the limits of passive benefits, and how are people being pushed into disability? There is an unworthy policy towards those who need an outstretched hand, and who need help to come back and contribute to society. That's why the Progress Party has seen the need to help those who are most vulnerable, and also eartags 2,500 more places to VTA. I also record that there are still major challenges within Nav. For the second consecutive year, it has not been possible to approve its accounts. We know that ICT faces major challenges. For this reason, the Progress Party proposes an increase of 200 million. kr. ICT investment must come, and we fear that it will go beyond other activities. We've already seen examples of this, with 160 jobs being reduced in the first line service. I'm afraid that with the budget the government is spending, more people are going to have to go, that the activity is being subdued on the first line service, and that more users aren't getting needed help. The FFO has also pointed out in its report that there are not so many steps forward in Nav. Those with complex disorders still have major problems getting the help they need. The Progress Party therefore considers it important to maintain appropriations which allow the maintenance of the activity. Also the sick leave in Nav is too high. I hope so, and I ask you once again, that you take over, that you promote good action and keep focus on it. Had sick leave in Nav been at the same level as in the rest of the public sector, there could have been a saving of 95 million. kr. It had been 200 years, according to the Ministry of Finance, which could mean benefits for users and give them better follow-up, among other things. Those who have the big problems. I also record that the government has given up the fight against poverty in many ways. I am recording that the Swedish State Council Lighthouse on 10 November says that you cannot help everyone, you have not been able to reach the promises you had earlier. I think, when I travel around and see, it's sad, and it does something to us. I think it does something to us all when you meet kids who have not been on a summer vacation year after year, when you meet kids who are not taking part in leisure activities because their parents can't afford it. They want to, but they don't have the opportunity. Or what if you meet kids who try to hide the family's own poverty by not bringing friends home, kids who don't want to show up at home? I think there are major challenges in this area. For this reason, the Progress Party also wants an increased focus on the ideal voluntary organisations, in particular on children and young people. That is why we are also proposing to increase the appropriations by 200 million in our budget. kr to these, those who can do something about the problems, targeting organizations like the Marita Foundation, the Red Children, the Church's Bymition, etc. I see that the time is running out, and I would like to take up with it the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted either alone or with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e131	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e136	In its contribution, the Progress Party strongly advocated an improvement in the situation of young people living in disadvantaged families. We in SV are very concerned about that and agree that there is a situation that is unacceptable. Then it's very strange to see the budget proposals of the Progress Party, where they have money for everything between heaven and earth and money for tax bills in the hundreds of thousands of dollars class for those who make over three million. kr. But the support for lonely dependants is to be taken away. These are the poorest kids in these families. They will receive transitional allowances much shorter and they will not be given the opportunity to take education while on transitional payments. What we know is that this is a social benefit that makes these caregivers get an education, and that they get an income that makes these kids come out of a poor situation. [[The President clubs.]] What is the reason why the Progress Party cannot afford to give priority to these kids?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e141	The Progress Party believes that the best way to help parents with poor finances – these are largely parents who are not in the labour market – is to help them get back to work. It will also apply to those who have low incomes. The fact that the Progress Party in its alternative draft budget increases the tax base would also result in a significant tax burden for those with the lowest income. The Progress Party has then proposed a reduction in the transition period from three to one year. I think we need to put in much more stringent instruments to get these carers back to work, give them help through other systems in the past. Studies in this area show that too many people work against their intention to go out of time and that the work line is not being followed up well enough. This is why we believe that moving the ceiling from three years down to one year and with other types of action can help more people get back faster, which will also provide them with better income in a faster way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e148	The party of progress, which thinks they're the party for the disabled, the sick and the elderly, cuts a total of almost 5 billion. kr in disability benefits, sickness benefits, daily allowance and redundancy benefits – benefits that form the basis of life for approx. 20 000 elderly, disabled, sick and unemployed. I take it for granted that the Progress Party believes that the budget is realistic and feasible. 5 B.C.E. kr means that more than 20 000 elderly, disabled and sick lose the benefit from 1 January. Several people have approached me. They don't believe what they read or hear. I do not find the answer in the vote, and I take it for granted that the policy of the Advance Party is not about magic. Can the representative Eriksson explain to me and to those who do not believe in their budget, what the Progress Party has thought older people, disabled people and sick people will live on from 1 January, and can the representative share with the public why just older people, disabled people, sick people and unemployed people are targets for a cut of 5 billion. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e155	First of all, as I said in my post, the Progress Party does not make any changes in performance. This is an illusion that I see that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is trying to create. We see and record in terms of sick pay, that only 24 pst. linked to rated search message. An important measure in the IA agreement was the increased use of classified search messages. I record that we also had this debate last year. At that time, the Progress Party considered that it was possible to reduce sick pay by 2.6 billion based on its calculations and estimates. kr. What do the accounts and the ageing show? Well, estimates show that you can save over 3.2 billion. SEK in sick pay. Does it mean – to ask the question back – that there were so many who got fresher last year in space and that the government is now saving 3.2 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? No, it's on the estimates. There have been fewer people who have been diagnosed. With the policy of the Progress Party, we believe that the use of grading can be increased. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e162	The Committee has ample time for the debate, so the President wants the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e165	There is a broad consensus that the government has managed the financial crisis in a good way. There have been a number of packages with three characteristics. One is that they have been powerful, the other is that they have worked, and the third is that they have had angry criticism from the Progress Party. The smooth tone of the Progress Party on the various measures that have come against the financial crisis has been that there is wrong medicine, moreover, there is too little of the wrong medicine, and the wrong medicine is too late. When one sees the outcome and the position now in Norway, the representative will then admit that the Progress Party has been too negative to the package of measures presented by the government and will say that the government parties have managed the financial crisis in a good way, when one knows that Norway, among other things. has one third of the average unemployment in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e174	Firstly, I do not recognize myself in the description that comes from the representative Pollestad. When we dealt with the package of measures against the financial crisis, there was a great deal of cross-political consensus in the Storting about the large parts of those packages and their direction. The Progress Party criticised that time – and then we are back to over a year ago – was part of the amount, among other things. against the construction sector. We wanted to speed up the municipal sector by going in with larger packages there to bring down the maintenance kit. That was part of the criticism. We also wanted these funds to be used much earlier than the government provided. We also know from reports that many of these funds were actually not used until August of that year. So I'm not completely familiar with the description Pollestad gives. It must also be remembered that there was a great deal of cross-political consensus in relation to the large packages against the financial crisis. But some of us wanted more powerful measures – yes, that’s right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e182	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e185	The next year's budget is a responsible budget for work and inclusion. Responsibility may sound a little boring, but when it comes to the state budget, accountability should arouse great and intense enthusiasm among people. For a tight budget that this year ensures what is the most, the most important thing for all of us. It ensures low interest rates, low leave, and that fewer people experience losing a job or getting a permit. A responsible budget ensures security for people's jobs and homes – nothing is more important than that. That is why next year's budget is a sound budget, which ensures people's safety in everyday life, and which also allows us to give priority to strengthening it all, most importantly: children's protection, drug users, better care for the elderly, the young who drop out of school, and those who are out of work today. The budget continues to ensure a low level of unemployment. We invest in the line of work while ensuring through good social arrangements the everyday lives of those who experience being unemployed or becoming unemployed. We continue in this year's budget the temporary measures we introduced when the financial crisis occurred, although the labour market situation has stabilised. We strengthen women's rights in this budget by including parental death benefits, maternity benefits and maternity-related sickness benefits in the daily allowance basis. And we're impatient. We want to speed up work towards involuntary part-time – female unemployment – and therefore set aside 25 million. kr in the year’s budget for local trials as a starting point for an offensive, in order to limit involuntary part-time and improve full-time opportunities. We follow up and strengthen the work for a more inclusive working life in the new IA agreement of 153 million. kr next year. The government has not given up, but we continue the fight against poverty. We've seen a total of 4 billion increase in poverty efforts. kr more than the previous government did. That's good, but we can't expect anything less from ourselves either – we're a government with great ambitions. This is the most important, but also the most difficult, work we do, for poverty must be combated by a number of measures — both short-term and long-term. This is why it is so important that we strengthen welfare systems, such as kindergarten, provide a good school for everyone, strengthen the community economy, strengthen the housing support system, provide interventions for addicts, support child-restraints in a better way, make greater efforts against drop-outs in school, and commit ourselves to the qualification programme. In this period, we have increased the minimum rate of population anxiety, and we have stepped up the qualification programme. All these are measures that provide acute improvement in income and living conditions for many, and our actions are also in the long term aimed at preventing poverty among future generations. In our area, the qualification programme is of particular importance, in order to get people from passive minimum performance and into activity and clarification. It's one of our most important tools. The figures from the programme last year show that more than six out of ten who completed the programme went to work or education. The program works, it gives people a chance, extra follow-up and is a carrot to get a better situation, and it also gets more into activity. That is why we must continue to invest in the qualification programme. The government is also strengthening its efforts to combat social dumping in the budget this year. We follow up the action plans, and we introduce a tripartite sector programme for the clean-up industry to strengthen the work of decent and serious employment in a highly unprofessional sector. We are also stepping up efforts to combat social security abuse in the budget. Social security schemes are best in the Norwegian welfare state. We make sure that no one falls outside the community, and that prevents poverty. The welfare systems exist for those who need them, and they should not be abused – they go beyond the legitimacy of the welfare state. That is why we are committed to combating social security abuse. These are some of the investments in our budget area for next year. It is also the case that the response needs in our budget area depend on the efforts – and the success – in the other budgetary areas to be debated during the week. The posts that we are discussing and treating today that sort under our jurisdiction are the result of all the other things that are done in other areas, over time. Expenditure on disability benefits, the need for the number of labour market measures, the level of the number of beneficiaries of social assistance – all this is a result of success in prevention. That's why we can't just treat our budget area in isolation, put the alternative disposals in the frame against each other, and then shake dice on the batches after that. No, we have to look at the whole of the party's policies, and from that we clearly see the results and needs of our area in terms of, for example, our policies. action places. It depends on the number of unemployed, which is again the result of the overall economic policy. It is a result of running a line where people have strong and good rights in the work environment law, or if you run a line that supports social dumping, weakens employee rights, brutalizes employment and shocks more people out of it. This results in a long-term perspective – on the need for social security payments and measures. Budgetary policy, which ensures low interest rates, which ensures the price of the crown and which ensures the export-oriented industry, is crucial. What we are doing throughout our industrial policy, in our efforts to combat the intoxication, in our efforts to counter the drop-out in school, that we are strengthening criminal custody and repatriation in the field of justice, that we are putting in place psychiatry, that we have put in place the new IA agreement focusing on previous follow-up and return to work, all our measures against social dumping, the pot against involuntary part-time – that is all we are doing in all areas, that determine whether we are in a position to strengthen the working line, to include more, to ensure that most people are in work, that fewer people are pressured out of work, and that more people who are out of work today can come in. Then it doesn't help to do what the Progress Party does, to yell at a few thousand places of action, when you have a comprehensive policy that will help make working life less serious, put the economy over control and with that people's job and home. It is the whole thing that counts, and the whole of government policy ensures that few are available, and our preventive perspective continues to be this way in the future. And we will go on. We are not satisfied that there are poor children in Norway. We are not satisfied that young people become disabled because they do not get the follow-up they should have. We're not satisfied that one in five doesn't complete high school or that the queues in psychiatry are long. But if the opposition – the Party of Advancement and the Right – comes to power and implements its policy in all areas, not just in our area in isolation, it really means that they are tearing the pillars of the Norwegian model apart, and that we are taking two steps back in the fight for everyone to join in. You can't say, like the Right, that you're concerned with reducing social differences and then prioritizing tax cuts in the billions class to those with the highest income. There will be less well-being to benefit from. One cannot do as the Right does, to say that one is concerned with strengthening the workline, but retains the mantra of building down the public sector, weakening the work environment law and accepting social dumping. It does not help in the rhetoric to approach the left and suddenly be concerned with reducing social differences, when, in reality, the Party of Advancement approaches politically. It is obvious that there is no consensus, but conflict about the Norwegian model, and the right side supports the model in the rhetoric, but will pick it apart every day in this hall with its practical policy. We have a different strategy. The decent working life with a strong working environment law is a pillar of the Norwegian model. We are the guarantors that people who cannot support themselves through work, permanent or temporary, will have a security to live off. We want more people to join by strengthening the line of work, making working life more inclusive, preventing exclusion from work, sickness and disability, and not weakening people's rights. We are doing this through major reforms that are already under way and are planned. We're going to get Nav up and stand. Nav is a good welfare policy ambition. We are working on a employment strategy for those with reduced working capacity. We have a full focus on the IA agreement, which is going to reduce sick leave in the future, and we're working on a bad reform to make it easier to combine work and social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e215	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e218	In the state budget, the government has seen 25 million. kr for the fight against involuntary part-time. It's something the Progress Party is also big. We have already seen many good examples of such projects around the country without any kind of financial compensation. The only brake compensation you have seen is that LO centrally has braked the projects. Can the representative of Trettebergstien ensure that the new projects that will come will not be stopped or braked by LO centrally?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e225	I am pleased that the Progress Party is now with us in the fight against involuntary part-time. Money for local trials is important both for disseminating experience already available in local trials and for launching new ones. What the Progress Party here is trying to do is use the opportunity to weaken the trade movement centrally. It is not that most attempts at changing working time arrangements are stopped centrally. Most of them are actually granted. I can see no need to weaken the Working Environment Act in the fight against involuntary part-time work. On the contrary, we do not accept that the Progress Party here uses the opportunity to try to weaken the Working Environment Act. It stands as a pole in the Norwegian model. Involuntary part-time work is being carried out by other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e234	I want to remind the representative of Trettebergstuen that there are also two other parties in opposition, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then I would like to take the opportunity to say that at least in the Right we think accountability is very tough and good. So the Right Party and the Labour Party have been together for quite a long time about a principle called the line of work. In this budget, the Workers' Party is moving from the working line to a social welfare line. I wonder if the representative Trettebergstuen can mention something in the budget that makes working more profitable and strengthens the working line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e241	We strengthen the line of work by having a comprehensive economic policy and a policy in all areas that ensure that unemployment is low. I do not accept the premise in the question from the representative of Røe Isaksen that it does not pay to work. The workline is real, and it pays to work. In recent times, a debate has been held that there may be some — they may be at disadvantage — that it may not pay to go back from social security to work. It's a very small group, they're the ones with the smallest benefits, and there's quite another reason why they have difficulty getting back to work than they might earn a few dollars to do it. So I don't accept the premise that it doesn't pay to work. That's what the movement of workers has been fighting for and providing through all our time, and it's still doing it. I'm skeptical of the rhetoric that the Right here leads. I believe that the goal of the Right is to make legitimacy weaken the welfare systems by presenting it as if people chose to ‘cry out’ and that it does not pay to work. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e252	I noticed that the representative Drettebergstien did not answer the question from Røe Isaacen about what measures in the budget strengthen the working line, but I will give her the chance again with a slightly more specific question. I have come to understand that the Workers' Party is constantly talking about work, and that work is one of the most important things. There's talk of people's self-esteem by feeling able to contribute to society. It's about lifting people out of poverty. I totally agree with that. One of the most important tools to help people get into work after they have been sick or have fallen out of work, have reduced their working capacity or otherwise are precisely labour market measures. My question to Trettebergstien is: Why does a measure cut from the current date approx. 76 000 to 71 000 right over the New Year? Why does one cut into the measures that help people to give them experience and opportunity to take action? What is the reason why a cut in these measures increases when the number of people who want to take action increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e263	We're doing a lot of things within this year's budget, as well as keeping the time off is too short to get people back to work or preventing people from getting out of this. Our entire IA bet is just about it. The follow-up to the IA Agreement is important in this way. The Qualification Program is one of the most important tools to strengthen the taskbar. The efforts we make against drop-outs in school and everything we do in the different areas of prevention are important. Then we have a good level in the number of action places. The level we have set for next year in the response sites is based on an estimated need. Then we've said, and I'm sure the representative, Ropstad, has also come along, that we have this under constant observation. If it turns out that the need is greater than what we planned for, then of course we'll get back to it in the spring – just like we did last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e270	The cord shift is over. A person in the gallery said “have a good time” when he left the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e275	I was about to say ‘have a good time’, but it is probably not in its place. We're going to address the President, of course, and he's still here, fortunately – that's good. We agree on a lot in Norway, and that is good, for example. two examples, as the representative Drettebergstuen mentioned, of the recent increase in the basic amounts of the population and the introduction of a new housing aid scheme. Both of those things are reforms that have been carried out with the Right's votes, and that's good. It is also of value that a number of major reforms are united in Norway. There is probably also one reason why Norway is a good country to live in for the most, most of them. But that doesn't mean that the problems we have are less important, and that doesn't mean that our disagreement in central areas isn't important. What we can agree on is that too many people are out of work. Oscar Wilde said there are three kinds of lies. It's a lie, a fucking lie and statistics. And statistics can be used for so many things. You can choose where you want to go and which years you want to focus on. But if you look at the period from 1980 to today, it is beyond any doubt that there are more people outside, on a public support scheme than it was then, and the increase is great. The increase is the greatest for young people in recent years. Of course, it has a lot of problems. One problem is that this is a loss for society purely socio-economic. It's the labour force we're not getting used to. It costs money over the state budget, money that we could spend on a lot of other good and important purposes, and last but not least: it also creates in parts of the Norwegian affluent society pockets of poverty, because we know that the link to the working life is perhaps the most crucial to preventing and preventing poverty, but also to get out of poverty. Right-wing policy has three key elements to do with this. The first is the principle that work should always pay off. It must be obvious that adults, healthy people in Norway are going to work, not because they want to, but because it is a duty. That's what adults do. It's like living in a society and taking responsibility for itself. Principle No 2 is that everyone deserves a new chance. It shouldn't be that if you stumble, you're going to be lying down, but you're going to get help to get up again. And that applies to everyone, whether you're tripping a short period or a longer period. The third principle is that we should have decent and proper arrangements for those who fall out of work, and for those who are too sick to work. It's important. I agree with Mr Trettebergstuen that this debate cannot be isolated as individual items in the budget. It is a comprehensive, responsible policy, and thus the Right's policy to counter social exclusion is also about the whole of the Right's policy. It's about having a knowledge school that gives everyone the best chance in life. It's about having a health system where you're pragmatic and flexible, so you make sure people get treatment instead of being more concerned about people being in a public queue because it's public. It's also about industrial policy, because someone needs to have the advice and the opportunity to hire all of these people that we're going to have into working life. A central difference between the Right and the Workers' Party's approach to this debate is that in the Right we understand that we need to use all the good forces, while in the Workers' Party's rhetoric it is sometimes heard as if Norway were created by Youngstorget. It is quite striking when the representative of the Trettebergstuen says: «We are keeping unemployment low.» I fully agree that economic policy is important to keep unemployment low, but the Workers' Party does not mention a single word about the owners, not a single word about those who create new jobs, not a single word about the entrepreneurs. The Labour Party doesn't even mention a single word about maybe the most natural thing you'd think the Workers' Party was talking about: people who go to work, ordinary people who get up every single day and go to work. It's not safe they want every day. It's not sure their job is the most creative and challenging in the world. But they go to work, and they are involved in creating wealth and well-being in Norway. All those who create businesses, all those who maintain jobs, and all those who go to work every day, are in favour of keeping unemployment in Norway low. This is not the way to adopt the welfare of Norway at party meetings at Youngstorget. The Working Party and the Right have been united on what is called the Working Line for many years. The idea is very simple. First of all, it's going to pay off to work, and second, it's always going to be based on activity. Now, when we're wondering if the Workers' Party is moving away from the line of work and over to a moaning line instead, it's about two things. First of all, it's about the rhetorical Workers' Party uses in the public debate, it's impossible to get wise. One day the Labour Party says that it is important to get more people out of passive support schemes and into work, and the next day others say, among other things. The representative of Trettebergstien, that people who are out of work do it because they're too sick to work, dot. In other words, the Workers' Party is obviously confused about the perhaps most important welfare issue of our time. The second reason is that this is a budget that does not strengthen the line of work, which rather strengthens the noise line. Unfortunately, this budget makes it less profitable to work, and when at the same time you don't have a good enough bet on organisation, don't do enough to have previous intervention and get more back to work, don't do enough to have a flexible healthcare system that actually provides people with treatment, don't have enough focus on rehabilitation early so that people can get healthy and get back, this is a step away from the line of work and across to the social welfare line. The right-hand option is wide, and unfortunately I don't have time to mention everything. I cannot take both business policy, education policy, research policy and policy for entrepreneurs and all this over these measured 10 minutes. But I can say that through some fairly simple steps, we make it more profitable for people to work, and make it more profitable for people to go from a passive support scheme to to work. We use, among other things: the large amount of money to lower taxes on ordinary workers with lower and medium incomes. The working party continues to do something about the property tax, but ordinary workers do not get a penny in tax relief with them. We propose a number of measures to make it more flexible to move from a social welfare scheme to work. Today's system is so rigid that you risk losing your additional benefits from day one if you take a job. It's unfair, and it's unfair. And it's about the public sector being more concerned with rules than helping people get to work and being a little flexible, so you get to keep some arrangements a little bit longer, if you get them. We propose an activity obligation for all those in public schemes, including: social assistance recipients, so as to ensure that people do not become passive social welfare recipients, but are entitled to activity if they come to the Nav office. That means people shouldn't accept that they're being eaten with passivity either. We propose increased efforts to combat sick leave, better prioritisation of means of action and more local management of sick leave. We want labour market measures that target those who are far from working life, while we think many others primarily need a job. This can also be done outside of the Nav system. We want – as you will also hear more about afterwards – to simplify organisation guarantees, to improve the organisation of work, simply because those who are outside the labour market are a large and unused resource that we need to obtain. Finally, I want to repeat that point that we agree a lot. But I'm afraid that some of what we've agreed on is going to be gone, that is, that you have to have a consistent line of work, that it should pay to work, and that you should also focus on the people who go to work every single day and make an effort. For the Right, it's a crucial point that if this is to be a good society to live in, we have to use all the good forces. Then you can't pretend it's politics alone or, worse still, one party alone in one party office in one square in Oslo that sits with all the solutions, sits with the whole and full fascination and gets all the credit for what's going well. Finally, I would just like to remind you that the party that the government has proposed – at least if we are to believe the media – to cut public schemes, social security schemes, during this period, is the Norwegian Labour Party. I want to use the last 6 seconds to take up the suggestions that the Right has alone and together with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e318	The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e323	The representative of the Red Isaac has recently been concerned with reducing social differences. So he breaks the party line and approaches the government's social cohesion project, at least he does it in the rhetoric. I choose to believe the representative Red Isaac on what he says, and I choose to believe in his commitment. It is possible that after a year in this field he sees the value of changing the course. His party, on the other hand, has not supported Røe Isaksen's rhetoric with much politics, on the contrary. The reduction of the public sector, the tax burden of billions, the removal of taxes on wealth – all of this brings less revenue to well-being and redistribution. The right will increase kindergarten prices and weaken the work environment law. All these are policies for increasing differences, not for smaller differences. So I wonder if the representative of Røe Isaksen has a plan for how to bring his own party, and not least the Progress Party, to change course and to put in place a practical policy to balance social differences in Norway in the future. If not Røe Isaksen's rhetoric is just this: empty rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e330	I'm very pleased with the question, because it gives me a chance to clarify that I haven't said that the Right should conduct a social democratic millimeter-right distribution policy. What the right has said is that we have small differences in Norway, is a value. It's an important Norwegian value, which we'll also be able to maintain. That doesn't mean, as parts of the Workers' Party think, that every year you have to work out pay statistics and then try to adjust to what you think is fairer. But that means that essentially the cultural similarity in Norway, that we have common arenas, and that we also have a culture of relatively small income differences, a good one, but a good one among many. So I just want to point out that the right school policy may be the most important factor we have in order to create more social cohesion in Norway. But then it's about lifting up those who need help, not pressing down those who don't need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e339	In this debate, we talk a lot about consuming the values. Values shall also be created. It brings me into the security offshore, which we are also discussing today, and the Petroleum Control. There is no doubt that the accident in the Gulf of Mexico and accidents elsewhere in the world has shown that this is a vulnerable industry and that active state supervision is necessary in order to have good safety. The Progress Party has proposed bringing together the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. Here the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Party of Advances and the Right, have joined forces on a note where one, paragraph 1, departs from the merger and, paragraph 2, states that the Petroleum Control Committee shall be located near the head office of the major oil companies, which, at the information of the representative, is in Stavanger. Is this an expression that the Right does not support such a line?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e348	There are unusually many good questions from the position today. I fully agree that values must be created. Then to the specific problem. It is true that the right has not entered the majority comment. Me and the others in the fraction have been skeptical of a contraction. There are several reasons for this, including: that it can be argued very well that the Petroleum Control is a very special professional environment, which risks being diluted if it is placed under the Labour Inspectorate’s supervision, but also because it has a natural relation to the region in Norway which is most heavily engaged in oil and gas. Having said that, I think the Right must be so honest and say that in this case we consider the arguments. It is not in itself unknown to a government that is now in the midst of a disability pension round, for example, that one may not have decided for everything in advance, but that one is in an ongoing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e357	I feel that the Right is trying on an ideological spat for the time being. They try to form a welfare party but deny the main basis for the success of the welfare state, namely that there are small differences. They reveal that the debate on exclusion is about sick people having something to live on while they're sick and out of work, and they say they want more differences and they call it the line of work. I want to challenge the representative of the Red Isaacs to tell the Norwegian people now how much Right will reduce the benefits of people who are out of work or who are ill, or how much the wages of low pay in Norway will go down so that the vision of Røe Isaacs that everyone should be at work and not get a performance can be realistic. I would also draw attention to the tax table presented by the Right in the financial debate, where those who have over 3 million. kr in income, receives NOK 60000 in tax bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e366	I fundamentally disagree with Karin Andersen when she says that the main foundation of the welfare state is small differences. The main foundation of the welfare state is that people work and that there are jobs in Norway. The main foundation of the welfare state is not that it is in this area that it is possible to adopt schemes that are good safety networks for people. That's a consequence, that, of people out there going to work, getting up in the morning and making an effort. It's a consequence of people creating jobs, and someone taking those jobs. - So that's what they said. So Andersen's representative knows well, because both of us have been present at meetings, that we are now talking to the representative's own government about the disability pension system. We have said that we believe that it is worth working. This does not mean, of course, that at any time – no matter what job you take, no matter what job break – you have to make money. I figured it's a matter of course you perceived it. If that's what the representative wants me to clarify, of course it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e373	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e376	Two years after the financial crisis fell on us, there is fewer unemployed in Norway than in any other country. It is SV proud to have been on. In the area we are discussing today, we strengthen the effort, while the opposition cuts – all the opposition parties kiss. So there are more people working in Norway than in any other country. It has just something to do with, as I was in the line exchange with the Right here, that a good, large and safe welfare state is part of the strategy that has been extremely successful in Norway. There we used efforts, including: over the public sector, when the financial crisis rolled over us, and it seemed better in Norway than in any other country. The countries that used the strategy advocated by the Right and the Advance Party, i.e. tax relief, came out much worse. We have income guarantees for those who have poor health and are out of work. That's SV proud of. We don't call it an outsider. We believe that it is the inclusion of all and equivalency. We want to bet more strongly on areas that we know work. The Qualification Programme is one of the most important actions undertaken by this government. SV has an ambition about and wants to contribute to an even stronger commitment to it in the future. It is also an important security of income for some of the most disadvantaged in this country. The Party wishes to remove that security of income from some of the most disadvantaged when qualifying for work. It's a deep disagreement. We're increasing the bet against involuntary part-time, which we also know is one of the difficult points for many. In fact, you're going to have a salary that you can live on, so you can go to work with pleasure every day. It is a bit alarming that the opposition is going to solve the money that has been allocated to it, because it is really necessary to start an experiment in that area. In the case of social dumping, the fight against it is one of the most important carriers for maintaining a society with small differences, security and work for all. If we don't win that fight, honest businesses in Norway will be outrun by companies that aren't honest, and pay levels in general in Norway, especially for the most vulnerable groups and the heaviest jobs, will go down. This means that fewer people will be able to enter the professions, fewer of which have prerequisites, such as: lack of competence or poor health, and there will be many fewer who are able to support themselves from their own jobs. It's a development that we know is in some countries, and that's a country we don't like to compare with. There are large differences, the poverty is greater, the wages are small, and they are also not successful in an economic sense. So we'll warn you about that. I would like to draw attention to some comments that the Committee has on Permanently Organised Work, because we are concerned that work for all should relate to work for all. The Committee considers this to be an important field of action. We believe that there is no reason for any reduction, and we ask for an overview of how many people want such work. There's an incredible amount of productive work going on, a lot of good services are also being produced. It is an area that the Committee wants to strengthen. So during the treatment in Stortinget, we've made a little effort at something called social entrepreneurship. I think that's the germ of a new social policy. It is a matter of social hardship through social welfare organisations helping to raise their own income. But social entrepreneurship is not about traditional entrepreneurship, it's about entrepreneurship where you have a double bottom line. There you're going to get incomes for yourself seas, master your own life, become masters in your own life, and through what you create, you're going to create social change for yourself and in society around you. This is a way in which some organisations work today, for example: KREM, and they have very good results. I see that the bet we've now started, with a small grant, can be the germ of a new social policy that I'm sure will be successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e396	SV is constantly making itself a spokesman for the poor and to prevent increasing poverty. In this year's budget, the Progress Party has decided to strengthen the grant to non-governmental organisations working towards social and economic disadvantages, by 200 million. kr. This has not been supported by the government, and obviously SV has not been able to speak well for that matter. When we go into Nav's pages, we can find the page for applications for these support schemes. It says: «With the draft State budget presented in October, there will be very limited opportunities to provide operational support to new organisations or support for new projects.» What does SV think about the support that is now being given to these organisations being so limited that new good actions stop and that it also slows down those organisations that are already doing a great job today? Why will SV not be involved in providing more support to these organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e411	That is precisely why, through the discussion in the Committee on Budgets, we have received increased funds in this area. We've got 2.6 million in. NOK to social entrepreneurship, we've got 1 million. kr to WayBack – as I know the Progress Party is also busy – and we have got money in place for holidays and leisure time for children in disadvantaged families. So we're busy with this. But what may be more difficult to understand is why the Progress Party, which has so much money to spend, has to cut the education aid for those who are loners, to make it possible for them to get an education and a job, or cut the social benefits of those who go on qualification programmes, which are some of the most disadvantaged, and who need the financial security to carry it out and have the opportunity to get a job. It will be so that a lot more people come out of poverty with the strategy we have than with the one the Progress Party is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e420	I must be allowed to start by reminding the representative Andersen that there was no major disagreement in Norway about the measures to be taken in the financial crisis, so I think it is completely uninteresting to involve what has been done in other countries. We strengthen our efforts, but the opposition cutters, says the representative Andersen. In fact, from my point of view, it is the Right Budget that is above the government budget that Andersen represents, in terms of support for the disabled. I wonder why she cannot support the proposals we have put forward for the disabled in Norway – to make everyday life easier, to get them out of work, and to be able to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e427	I refer to the total budgets put forward by the Right in this area. There's a cut of almost 400 million. Total kr. In addition to that, the Right may make the most strange cut in this budget, namely in the operating budget of Nav. If you cut the Nav operating budget – there’s a concern in Nav now for the operating budget, considering whether they’ll be able to handle all those who need help – it’s a little strange that Right thinks they’re going to do more with fewer people. I think maybe the strategy that the Right has taken on in that area is a line that won't at all lead to any more getting help, either disabled or unemployed, or some of those who need help to get into work. In addition, I would draw attention to, and actually also invite, a cooperation on an employment strategy for people with disabilities, which we are about to start. Here I think we need new measures, but then we can't cut at the same time with those who are going to help people who are out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e434	It would have been very tempting to follow up the questions of the representative Graham. But I'm going to come up with another question that I thought is worth noting, and it's – not unexpected – about poverty. In the same debate last year, we had just been through a round where the Christian People's Party presented a proposal for a national fight against poverty, where we invited the government and all the parties to think constructively about various proposals. Because I thought, indeed, that SV had many good suggestions. So I also believe that the Christian People's Party has some good suggestions, and they had hoped that the government could listen to. At the time it was notified that a big message would be sent, and then there would be suggestions etc., but we were told that the message was postponed. In these days, we're discussing disability pension. Today we received letters that the entire proposition has been postponed and will come in the new year. It seems to me that things are just being postponed and postponed. One of the most important measures that SV's leaders also have to talk about is state intervention and social assistance, and the Swedish State Council Lighthouse has suggested that there is nothing of it. Is it a postponement or is it not going to be any of the extra social assistance rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e447	I believe the Christian People's Party and SV are very close to each other in the view of combating poverty, and I am pleased about that. There will be a big Christmas message that is a follow-up to the Distribution Committee's setting. It will be a very important matter, because it takes into account the large distribution policies that we are doing in society – that we should have small differences, and that this will make society more successful in all areas. There I think the Christian People's Party, SV and the government can very much agree, and there is a difference between the Right and the Advance Party. In the case of social assistance rates, it is quite right that SV believes that we should have state social assistance rates and that they should be higher than today. We have not been able to make that happen in the government. It's not on the government platform either. But the work on improving the situation of the most disadvantaged is also likely to be done through the qualification programme. It is precisely this logic that you get a fixed benefit that is higher than social assistance and a security of income. The qualification programme is therefore a good track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e456	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e459	Norway and the Norwegian economy have dealt well with the global financial crisis. Unemployment is low and falling. Although the figures from the third quarter of 2010 show that post-financial crisis labour market decline and unrest are not yet fully over, there is clear evidence that the sustained decline is decreasing. We still have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. Figures from Eurostat from September show that the average unemployment rate in the EU is 9.6 p.m., while the corresponding figures for Norway are 3.5 p.m. This is important for the welfare of Norway. We have dealt well with the financial crisis, both because the starting point before the crisis was good, with a historically low unemployment rate, and because we had had a longer period of high growth in employment. But we have also dealt well with the crisis because we have had a well-functioning labour market, an active labour market policy, and we have had a high level of labour market measures. This has meant that unemployment did not grow as much when the crisis took place. There are no coincidences that Norway has managed the financial crisis well. It is capable of political leadership, combined with political ideology that has the aim of reaching everyone, not just the few. We know that long-term sick leave and long-term absence from work are at high risk of workers disappearing too well. It is therefore necessary to initiate measures early during the sick leave period. I'm glad that we have a new IA agreement in place, and that we have an offensive approach to reducing sick leave. There were many headlines on record sick leave in the spring of 2010, but we have to note that since then developments have been very joyful. In particular, the figures from the second quarter of 2010. It's not possible to point to any kind of specific factor for the improvement, we've only had a big decline. I think we should take that with us. It shows that the approach we have to the sick leave work is right. I have recorded that someone has done this to a debate about ‘outing’ or about ‘ pissing on the workers’ or other terms that have been used. I believe this is a derailment and senseless time lag. In this discussion, we need to keep focus on the measures and the impact of the measures. Yes, it may be fun for both the Right Magnification Group, Manifesto Analysis and others to come up with subtle concepts and call each other more or less demeaning things, but I think that for those who are outside the labour market, who are ill and want to return to the labour market, it is the concrete policy that is crucial, not a struggle for who belongs in which booth. Finally, I want to get into the ICT system in Nav. It's a challenge. We should have come further than what we have done, but the budget carries the order that one is in the process. We've earned a thorough and good process when we're going to a purchase as big as a new Nav ICT system. I have expectations for the quality assurance process that is going on and I hope that we will move forward quickly. Like many others in the committee, I spent several days this summer visiting a local Nav office. I believe that everyone who was in the Nav office and looked at the case handlers having to sit and punch into a new system of things that were registered by the users online was reasonably stated, and got a little thought back to the 1980s when we got up the syntax error – press play on tape on our computers. Nav has an amazing number of dedicated people who are willing to do a good job. We have to make sure they have the tools they need. In my view, it is the most important task of welfare policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e478	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e481	The representative Pollestad and the Central Party have, on repeated occasions, been rhetorical about security, and especially about the Petroleum Supervision. It's affordable, and I'm glad you are. At the same time, I also record that in Stavanger Aftenblad, which is certainly a good and backward newspaper – it can certainly confirm Pollestad – Jan Erik Vinnem, professor of social security at the University of Stavanger, writes that we “need a coordinated, powerful and highly professional supervision when today’s system does not satisfy”. Furthermore, he writes that the Progress Party should have ‘responsiveness for the inclusion of the proposal on Petroleum Supervision in the Labour Inspectorate’. Does Pollestad think that Professor Vinnem is speaking against better knowledge, and is it so to understand that Pollestad is satisfied with the resources that the Petroleum Control has now been allocated, and that leads to irresponsible control of Norwegian pedestal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e488	Stavanger Aftenblad is an excellent newspaper that has many important statements about the safety of offshore. I have registered that the Progress Party is hanging its proposal on one professor. That's how we all find a professor who supports our proposals. I have also had bad suggestions that have been supported by a professor. Here is the point that the tasks of the Petroleum and Labour Inspectorate are different. One is about preventing a potential major accident. A completely different approach is required, which is different from what you have in other jobs. I fear that a merger of the Petroleum Control and the Labour Inspectorate will lead to a weakening of the ability of the Petroleum Inspectorate to do a good job offshore. And then we'll have a discussion with the Petroleum Control if the resource access is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e493	The representative Pollestad has stated that he is pleased with the offensive work that the government is doing in terms of sick leave, and he says that there is concrete policy for the sick, which is crucial. I have to say that it is a long way to go before the measures that have just been included in the new IA agreement start to work. I mean, a lot of people aren't even there. It is a fact that health cows have grown by tens of thousands of people under this government. We are getting a two-part health system in Norway. They're the ones who can pay off the queues, and now we've seen in the newspapers in the last few days that it's also those who have knowledge of the health sector that comes along. What will the representative Pollestad do to help people in health cows in view of concrete policies, which he is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e503	I am so pleased that we have measures in the IA agreement that have not yet started to work and that have not been started. It shows that we can expect further results in the future. When I spoke about close follow-up, I mean, among other things. the need to impose greater responsibilities on doctors. I point out that dialogue meetings are important. I point out that you have to look at the role of the employer in this. At the same time, the Centre Party has a fundamental sense of the idea underlying the Faster Back programmes. It's got to be ringing around. It needs to be targeted better, to get people back to work faster. I am pleased with the broad agreement we have on the IA agreement. I am also pleased that the Right deviates from its principle that it should pay to work, and goes in for 100 pst. sickness pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e512	It was a good post from the representative Pollestad, with a very good center policy. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have traditionally been very close to each other, especially with regard to the fight against centralization and top management, because we see that a good society is built from below. In recent times, a set of hubs has been controlled more and more vertically. In any case, in my opinion, an outreach takes place because of national restrictions. A few weeks ago, acting Nav Director announced a percentage cut in each state of 3.7 pst., leading to a cut in the crew. There have been several local Nav leaders who have ended up protesting what they call irresponsible permissions. My question to the representative Pollestad is – since we are united in the fight against centralisation and believe that there is an important point of competence: how does the government want to prevent that centralization from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e521	Some of the success of the Nav reform must be in close local presence and local anchoring. Nav has received large funds and will also receive large funds next year. This is a continuation of a historically high level of Nav. I am concerned that the first line service should have a high priority. It's also an important task for Nav. That's where the user's meeting with Nav is. It's important to the Center Party. Then I will go back to the Christian People's Party in the case of a mismatch that they have in their policies, and that has just been up there, where they have raised state norms for the social aid rate – which is what the Centre Party is against, as we believe this is best handled in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e533	The Christian People's Party wants a society where the quality of life is most important, where more people are included and experienced that they have a worthwhile life, where they are allowed to contribute, and where we build society from below. A good welfare society requires a good community, and community is important for all people. A good community means a strong and secure public sector, but a good community also means other things, because a task solved by the community is a task solved by the family. As others have pointed out, the debate on a welfare society goes far beyond our committee. A safe and good family is a commitment to prevent people from falling outside society. But when it comes to volunteering, it's another community that's incredibly important. Voluntary organizations make an incredibly good effort around our country, people who burn to help others, and who use leisure to solve tasks that many think are public. But a good welfare society depends on safe, good, stable families, an early effort and good conditions for the voluntary sector. I could have spent a long time talking about the challenges in the voluntary sector, where one sees that institution after institution is laid down, one sees that many voluntary organizations are tired, and we from the Christian People's Party feel that the government does not have the same focus on the non-profit sector. Christian People's Party wants a society where more people are included. We say that a society that is good for children is good for everyone. I thought it was a fantastic perspective to have. But a society that is good for children also means that one has to do more for the poorest children. The Christian People's Party is increasing the budget by 1.5 billion dollars. When it concerns the fight against poverty, and we do it by targeting, because we believe that action must come to those who need it the most. We see from the statistics from the SSB that from 1999 to 2001 there were 3 pst. Poor child. From 2006 to 2008 there were 8 pst. That almost means a triple of poor children. One can probably discuss the limits of poverty, but the point is that there are children who grow up, who experience insecurity and a everyday life that they do not feel. Maybe poor kids are some of what we should have prioritised higher. That is why I am disappointed when the government party is voting in favour of our proposals in the voluntary sector, which are targeted at kindergartens, income-adjusted rates, etc. An inclusive society is about taking the people who are struggling to get into work, seriously. The percentage of people with reduced working capacity who are at work has fallen. It's dramatic. As of today, more than 150000 people are registered with Nav with a completed job capacity assessment, which may come up with some form of action. But what does the government do? Yes, they cut in the number of action places, in labour market measures and for those with reduced working capacity. The key in helping people out at work, which is available capacity, will not be used. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has strengthened the number of action places. What surprises me is that it seems that a government can only build up and down that part from the state budget, and then you can look at the revision. The challenge is that the different organisations, reintroduction companies and the like, which are engaged in action, lose their competence, they have to permit people, and they have to build up – and it's a challenge to build up. Nav – which is a human being who falls outside, first meets in contact with the public – experiences that in 2011 they have to cut 161 million. kr for County. Eating skills – which is one of the most important things to get an early clarification, an early effort, to get people into the right way to get them out of work – will be cut. We know that there will be an average of 900 days between getting sick and coming in some sort of action place – 900 days! It is not surprising that a person cannot always succeed. Had we strengthened Nav, we had managed to get more people to work faster. I see that time is running out, so before I forget it, I have to take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e548	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e553	It is nice to hear the representative Ropstad talk about including and combating poverty, but we also record that the representative Ropstad and the Christian People's Party write more often and more often with the Right and Advance Party. In this budget, we have seen several examples of cutbacks in support of the most vulnerable. Some of the cuts mentioned are in the training aid for lone dependants and in the qualification aid, which affects precisely those in whom Ropstad is involved. We also remember the cut of Bondevik II and the Party of Advancement in the day-to-day payments for the unemployed. Is this a policy that tempts us to repeat? Or does the representative Ropstad and the Christian People's Party recognize that they need to seek better company?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e560	I'm in good company with myself in the committee, and I think many of the suggestions made by the Christian People's Party are very good. Even though I can agree with Mr. Forsberg that there are some cuts, especially from the Progress Party, which I don't like, I still have to say that we are finding together in a good area, and that is what is most important to me. I'm busy with politics, not the name of the game that we might write together with in the comment. That's why I have written the Christian People's Party together with the government party where we are some with them, and the Christian People's Party joins with the Progress Party or the Right if we are some about politics. I mean, the comments from the opposition -- at least where the Christian People's Party has signed in -- are an expression of a policy that would help more people get into work and would help more people out of poverty. If the representative of Forsberg is thinking about government, I will not stand here and discuss the government issue. But I'm going to say that for the Christian People's Party, the struggle for poverty is one of the most important issues that we can't compromise on, should it possibly go against government issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e569	I think it's important that the Christian People's Party clarify both the sea and the rest of us in what political direction the party wants to go. When studying the alternative budgets of the opposition parties, there is a background between the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, in particular in taking from the poorest women in the developing countries and giving them to the richest men in Norway – who are, in a way, the main intervention in the policy of distribution. The second view is whether big differences are good or bad for a society. There I perceive that the Christian People's Party is much closer to the government parties, and that direction of politics, than they do in other areas. The only area in this budget where I perceive that the Christian People's Party is moving in a different direction is in the view of sick pay. It's actually the only party that proposes to weaken the sick pay system and allow for a reduction in the sick pay. Is this an important signal in the political direction? Or are the other things the most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e576	The signal is that we want to implement the dialogue meeting, so there is no cut in the budget. Our goal – and I believe Karin Andersen agrees – is to be able to succeed in the early efforts. When either Nav, companies or individuals choose not to implement a dialogue, a valuable time is lost, and a valuable opportunity to get people out of work. So I think that exactly this proposal would have given a saving. Representative Andersen says it's a cut, but it's not a cut, on the contrary, it's a good suggestion that the government should look at. When it comes to direction, I'm proud to say that the Christian People's Party wants a completely different way from what SV wants. We have a third option. I have faith in a policy, as I said in my post, that ‘we build from below’, where we take the best from both sides – I can see good security, good welfare arrangements from the left, and I can see good measures, for example. in the case of voluntary activities, voluntary activities, business activities, etc. from the right-hand side. For the Christian People's Party, it's about building a policy where we take the best from both sides – and then the Christian People's Party is a separate direction, not either right or left.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e583	The representative, Ropstad, said that it was politics, not the name of the party, which was the important thing to write together in notes. At the same time, the representative, Mr Ropstad, said in his speech that he fully agreed that one must look at the whole of the policy of the political parties in order to see the results and needs in our area. Then I have a few questions for the representative: Does the representative agree that tax is important to fund well-being? Does the representative agree that tax is also an important step in terms of redistribution? Does the representative agree that it has been important for us today to be a society with relatively small differences? Is the representative of Ropstad agreed with us that 50. Do tax cuts also necessarily mean less money for the distribution of well-being, less money for children's protection, less money for labour market measures, less money for kindergartens, for schools, for Community values and for combating poverty, of which he is concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e591	Yes, I'm in complete agreement. Therefore, I am pleased with the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party can stand together in fiscal policy, that the Workers' Party was willing to support the necessary steps that were taken under Bondevik II. There is support for one of the vast majority of tax cuts because one saw that tax is an important tool for getting incomes to cover the important welfare tasks, but it is also an important tool for creating growth in businesses and stimulating people to work more. That's why I also agree that tax is an important tool to redistribute and ensure that there are no significant differences. I notice that we have been a few, that shows most articles. Red Isaac had an important post where he explained that big differences are not good for a society. That is why I see that we can stand together in fiscal policy. But what I'm not happy with – and I've spent time on today – is that the government doesn't use the tools that are there to help more people out of poverty and into work. That's where I think the opposition could have done more.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e601	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Labour and Social Committee. We have thus not had the opportunity to promote the position of the left in the setting we are currently processing. We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the government parties' proposals for specific budgetary decisions, as a result of the fall in our proposal for an alternative state budget under Framework 7 in the context of Stortingen's treatment of the financial situation. However, we have some framework-independent proposals that have been promoted in the Chamber today, and we also support some of the minority proposals that have been promoted in the vote. The liberal ideology of the left is based on the individual human being. Everyone should have the freedom to use their abilities for their own benefit and for the benefit of society – but, of course, those who really need the help of society to live a worthwhile life will get it. Free societies have good Community institutions and a social safety network for all. Poverty affects individuals — often unexpectedly and randomly — and for complex reasons. Some people are persistently unable to obtain income from which they can live. They shall have a level of support that gives them the opportunity to live a decent life. Support schemes which are essential for the living conditions of children shall be transparent. The first priority of the left is to combat poverty and health problems in children and families with children. This is shown again in the alternative government budget of the Left. We are proposing targeted tax proposals, such as: to increase the rates of the minimum deduction to 38 pst. – which only benefits those with low incomes – and we propose direct action on the state budget to combat poverty, with over 2 billion. In addition to the government's draft budget. The path out of poverty is linked to the ability to support themselves through work. The left will therefore focus on both more jobs and not least on getting more in work. This is done by strengthening the working line consistently in our alternative draft budget, including: through a number of proposals for tax changes and measures on the expenditure side of the budget. At the same time, much better arrangements must be made for those who, for various reasons, have reduced their ability to work so that they can contribute according to their ability. However, many who are unable to work full-time can make significant efforts through adapted jobs and jobs. The proportion of older people will increase sharply in relation to the active population. Almost 25 pst. by the population of Norway in 2050 will be 65 years of age or older. This challenge needs to be met with a targeted policy in order to get more hands at work. More people in work and less on social benefits are absolutely essential in order for us to be able to maintain our welfare systems in the future. The various welfare benefits, in combination with the tax system, must be designed in such a way that it pays for individuals to be in gainful employment rather than receiving public benefits. This is crucial for our success in maintaining a strong and sustainable welfare system in the future. Therefore, measures to increase the number of jobs and to facilitate more jobs are one of the main priorities of the 2011 alternative budget of the Left. Finally, I would like to draw attention to something that is very important to me and to the Left, and that the representative Trettebergstien did not touch at all in his post. 1 May this year I went for the first time on a demonstration train. I went along with a number of self-employed people during the parole of better social rights. In its alternative budget, the Left proposes to equalise both the rights of care for own children and an obliging escalation plan to equalise the rights associated with own illness. As a first term, we suggest increasing the compensation rate after 16 sick days from 65 pst, which is the current rule, to 80 pst. The total cost is below 300 million. kr. The government has a touching concern for the rights of ordinary workers related to health pay and a ditto lack of care for those who are actually willing to take the risk of creating a job for themselves and perhaps some more. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left vote in favour of minority proposals No. 1–5, 8, 10–12, 15, 25 and 26 in the vote, and finally put to the vote proposals Nos. 29-32, which is distributed in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e622	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e627	It was a pleasure to hear that the left had joined the tradition of going in the 1st May train. Do you want to assume that you will be able to find more slogans to go under in the coming years? There are many of us who have gone under those slogans and done that job for very many years. So that's good to hear. However, I have a few brief questions about the alternative proposal tabled by the Left. I have registered that you take up and add extra funds to those with reduced professional skills to bring them back to work, which we regard as a very good measure and end up also about. But we have a clarification, and I'm just going to refer from the text: «Many who are unable to work full-time may nevertheless make significant efforts, for example, in part-time jobs, temporary jobs, through adapted tasks, etc.» I wonder: What about those who have reduced working capacity, which makes them particularly suitable for temporary jobs, possibly in trainee positions related to short-term projects? What makes it possible then to be returned to normal work?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e639	First, I would like to thank you for the positive of the line, and I'm going to promise that I'll go on several 1st May trains. So at least we agree on that. But then to the line: the Tritebergstuen said several times in his post here today, she actually said it several times: it's the whole budget that counts. With regard to Left's alternative budget, I'm very proud that we're adding 5 billion. to concrete measures to increase the number of people coming into work. These are concrete measures, which I hope the representative will take the time to read. In addition, I'm very proud that we're using 2 billion. to combat poverty. So that's our answer. The wholeness is important to us – the whole of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e646	One thing to say about the Left's alternative state budget is that you have a very excessive belief in rapid changes in the labour market situation and sick leave by means of very small measures like Left's, and that it seems that you also have to reduce the daily allowance with this budget, if you were to take it seriously. However, I would rather ask for a proposal that has been put forward in the Chamber, namely this by introducing norms of health care periods according to the Swedish model. Then the question is quite specific: does the Left believe that there are politicians who are going to determine how long people should be sick? Isn't that medical responsibility for the doctors? Has the Left been involved in the experience of Sweden with this scheme, where there have actually been quite serious personal disasters as a result of this, and where people have not got a job but have remained without income protection and come into a much more difficult situation, precisely because they have introduced these kinds of political health care periods?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e653	The left would never have made such a proposal if we hadn't examined how it worked in Sweden. It's worked well, but it's not just what it takes. This has worked well with several measures and with that focus on getting more people to work. That's where I'm calling for the government's strong efforts. How do more people get to work? That's actually what we're going to live on in the future. There are no creative proposals, as I see it, in the budget here. It's just about support schemes and no creative measures to motivate people to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e658	Then I get to follow it up a little, because it is interesting to know what the Left means by active action. It seems that the Left then believes that active measures should be aimed at creating more financial insecurity for those who are ill, rather than having a comprehensive policy, as the government is concerned about, and which has just provided Norway with the lowest unemployment rate in any country we can compare with. More in Norway are involved in work than in any other country. How can the Left believe it is right that the instrument to be used is to make sick people more insecure in their own economy, rather than supporting government policies that prove that more people are at work, and that fewer people are unemployed here than in the countries that have used this technique that the Left now advocates?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e663	At least there is one thing we should agree on, and that is that the cost of sick pay needs to be reduced. I hope we can agree on that. The fact that people pay taxes and get into work is what drives our society in the future. So back to Sweden, because I think the representative should take a trip to Sweden to see how it actually worked. We have a close dialogue with our sister party in Sweden, but, as I said before, there are also more measures than the normal health care period that must be in parallel. But having the focus on wanting more people to work and getting sick down is very important. I don't feel like this government has. At least they haven't worked that far, as we from the left see it. We are extremely concerned about getting more jobs, getting more in work and motivating them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e674	We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate and one of the world's best welfare societies. It's not random, it's a result of clear political choices. Unemployment is now declining in Europe, and the risk is a sustained higher level of unemployment than before the financial crisis. The basis for well-being is laid through our joint work. Working for everyone is therefore still a main goal for our government. Work gives individual economic autonomy and is one of the main means of combating poverty and offsetting social differences. The Government proposes a continued high number of action sites in 2011. The number of action places increased in 2009 to meet the increase in the number of unemployed. The appropriations for next year are adapted to positive employment trends. The system of non-temporary wage subsidies is proposed to continue in 2011, as is the effort related to the National Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health. In order to improve the rights of workers in pregnancy and childbirth, the Government proposes that parental benefits, maternity benefits and maternity-related sickness benefits be counted as labour income in the qualifying basis for daily allowances with effect from 1 January 2011. The government also maintains the interim financial crisis measures for day-to-day pay and leave. Sick leave has been reduced in 2010 and therefore allocated is reduced by about 3 billion. kr in 2010. Reduced sick leave appropriations allow us to spend more on health, school and kindergarten. We assume that we will not have increases in sick leave in 2011. While society benefits from this, we also know that it is good for individuals to be at work rather than going sick. The government facilitates an inclusive working life where everyone has the opportunity to participate. In March of this year, we signed a new and strengthened IA agreement. Sick leave has fallen during 2010. It did so in 2004, but then it went up again. It is essential that we now do not settle down when we see trends going the right way, but that we continue to have a lot of attention, good information and work systematically and targeted for continued good results. That is why we have proposed that 153 million be allocated. kr for the follow-up to the new IA agreement. In Soria Moria II, the government announced its own employment strategy for people with disabilities, i.e. increased efforts towards Objective 2 of the IA Agreement. This work is now in progress. The employment strategy will be concentrated on identifying concrete labour-oriented measures and schemes that are suitable for increasing participation in working life for people with disabilities. In this work, special priority will be given to young people entering the labour market after completion of education. Ensuring the well-being of the welfare community also means that Nav has to work well. Therefore, the 2011 operating appropriations for the State of Labour and Welfare have largely continued after a sharp increase over the previous two years. The ambition behind the Nav reform was to get more people to work and reduce the influx to social benefits. I'm glad we're now seeing improvements in how Nav works. At the same time, I am committed to recognising that there is still challenging and long-term work that needs to be done to get the full effect of the reform. A new ICT system is at the heart of this effort. So we're proposing to grant $10 million. for the planning of this important work. Good plans are crucial when starting such complex work. While welfare services must be further developed and Nav strengthened, the government is committed to protecting the Community's resources. The welfare arrangements exist for those who need them. Drug abuse is totally unacceptable. The government is therefore asking the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to step up efforts to combat social security abuse. The government is concerned that everyone can contribute to the value creation process. It involves efforts both to prevent unemployment and to ensure that working life is inclusive and provides the basis for as much participation as possible. At the same time, it involves the protection of welfare systems for those who, for various reasons, are unable to participate. It's always worth working, but if you can't work, you have to be sure of good welfare arrangements. We've set up a system where you're either at work or you have clear rights-based benefits. We're gonna be proud of that and we're gonna be happy for that. The challenge will be to increase the number of benefits to combine social security and employment. Involuntary part-time is a form of unemployment which must be combated as other unemployment. Involuntary part-time is a particular problem in certain industries and in relation to certain occupational groups, and it affects women. The government therefore proposes to grant 25 million. kr for measures that may reduce the number of workers in involuntary part-time in 2011. The funds are intended to be used both for projects relating to the organisation of work in individual enterprises and for trials aimed at continuing training in order to strengthen the full-time opportunities of workers. The government has also taken the initiative of a tripartite industrial cooperation to promote a serious and well-functioning working life in vulnerable industries. In cooperation with the social partners, the clean-up industry has been selected as the first industry. We've proposed 10 million. kr to be used in particular for approval schemes for cleaning establishments and ID cards for the cleaning industry will be included as an important element. From New Year on, one of the biggest changes in the history of popular fear is being made. The pension reform enters into force. The opportunity to combine work and retirement from 62 years of age is a significant welfare reform and facilitates a gradual transition from working life to retirement according to your own wishes and needs. At the same time, annual retirement will be higher the later it is taken out. There is reason to believe that more people will choose to continue work rather than retire completely. The government has strengthened the annual effort against poverty by 3.9 billion. kr for the period 2006-2010. We combine a broad prevention perspective with measures to improve the living conditions of the most disadvantaged, especially in relation to children and young people. At the heart of the work against poverty is giving all opportunities to support themselves and to be socially included by participation in the labour market. Poverty is a complex problem that involves much more than lack of money. We suggest strengthening kindergarten and school and continuing the eight-hour free homework system. A well-developed pedagogical kindergarten offer gives children good and more equivalent growth and learning conditions. Increased efforts are needed to prevent school drop-outs in order for more people to have employment opportunities. The strengthened local economy provides better opportunities for municipalities to provide welfare services. The Qualification Programme is one of many measures contributing to better opportunities and living conditions for vulnerable groups. We strengthen efforts towards drug addicts, efforts to increase the completion of secondary education and programmes of primary competence in the labour market. We make changes to the contribution advance scheme that will provide better income hedges for low-income dependants. The 2011 State Budget proposes a strengthening of nearly 300 million. in areas that are particularly important in an overall response to poverty. The government aims to provide a keynote on the policy for distribution in spring 2011. Further efforts to combat poverty will be seen in the context of the follow-up to the position of the Distribution Committee, which came in 2009. We have submitted a budget to keep employment up and unemployment low.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e716	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e719	I would like to ask three questions, perhaps there will be an opportunity to ask two later. I noticed that the Council of State said from the pulpit that involuntary part-time was hidden leave. We know that involuntary part-time is not recorded in any form of unemployment statistics. Both I and several started a debate this fall where a number of government members went on the job, including government party representatives, and said that there was no kind of hidden leave, and that this was a fictitious use from the right side of Norwegian policy. First of all, I understand that the Council of State confirms that there is a hidden absence in the unemployment statistics we have – that must be the case from what she said from the pulpit – and second, I record that the government has said that a Nav Ombudsman should be assessed. They've been saying that for years. How long should the government sit and assess? When can we expect there to be a matter for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e726	There is no doubt that those who want more work and do not have a full job today must be regarded as job seekers and must be involved in the assessments we make to get more out of work. I have seen that the debate that has taken place has gone on completely different types of leave as those who have different types of social welfare schemes. I do not understand that those who have involuntary part-time are necessarily on other types of social welfare schemes. But it is clearly important for our government to step up efforts, so that more people who work involuntary part-time will have the opportunity to work more. So to the second part of Eriksson's question, the government is working on going through the whole Nav system. We go through complaint procedures – how to complain, how to make legal certainty, how to make supervisory arrangements. So it's a wide range of things that we're working on, and we have to come back to once we've gone through that whole spectrum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e733	The right has supported the part in the Workers' Party that has wanted to do something about the disability pension – a part of the Workers' Party that I have the impression of has extra good growth conditions in the department, perhaps a little less in this house. But that's another thing. Unfortunately, it is now that the government creates undue uncertainty. There's two reasons for that. The first is that when the new pension reform comes into force on the eve of the new year, it is a terrible late arrival to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain with important issues that are crucial for people. The second is that there is a continuous flow of leakages about the new disability pension scheme, while the government has today announced that the proposition does not come until after Christmas. This means that there will be an even more month of uncertainty for people who are served through the media an impression that there will be some dramatic changes that can affect what you get paid, without I've seen that the government to a particularly large extent, at least not in all cases, takes up contradictions. What will the Council of State do to prevent this uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e740	Let me first make it quite clear: no one has past performances today, which are to be subject to major changes in the disability that comes. So it's absolutely right that there are complex questions to consider, and we're not done with it. That's why we've chosen to inform the Storting today that we're not making a proposition for Stortinget just before Christmas, but we're working on it, and it won't be long before the proposition is in place in Stortinget. There is high pressure in the government to make a good proposal, which I hope we will be able to present to the Storting in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e747	I want to follow up on the previous question. From the outside, I feel that the department is losing some control of some important issues. The disability pension is one of the issues. It's an incredibly important thing that involves an incredible number of people, and it'll be very decisive that a lander lands on a proper solution. That matter will be postponed. There's been a lot of chaos and a lot of leaks that the Red Isaac was in. Then we see that when it comes to adapting to a new retirement pension, there are issues for Stortingen with a couple of weeks of treatment, which I would say is irresponsible. The ministry spends time putting matters in good time. Then it's Nav, which is one of the most important agencies to be shut down in welfare policy. One can see that the functioning Nav director comes with a cut of 161 million. kr out in the county. It's going to cut 3.7 pst. Two Nav leaders in the past week have cancelled their job in protest against what they call the irresponsible operating budget. Why does the Council of State accept that there will be cuts in Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e756	When it comes to the criticism that you're late for Stortinget with propositions, I get to take it with me. But in the case of the misadventure reform, I think it is right that we are working on a good proposal that we want to make to the Stortinget. It must be the most important thing. So the questions related to operating appropriations for Nav. It is true that there is a slight cut in the operating appropriations for Nav now, after we have increased a lot in a period when Nav has had a lot of new unemployed and others to serve from Nav. That's why we think it's right to be able to bring something down to customize that, among other things. shall be managed with fewer action sites. It is therefore an adjustment to the situation we now have in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e763	In connection with the government project Cooperation for work visited a number of government councillors Opera Software. According to the Prime Minister, a response from the Opera management was that sick pay and this type of scheme should be more adapted to self-employed people. On a specific question from the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister answered the following: "Well, we've made some improvements, we're looking at whether we're going to make further improvements." My concrete questions to the working Minister for Labour and Social Affairs are as follows: How are you doing? What's going on? Will there be any further improvements? Are there any measures? And is it such that the self-employed also this time have to pay for it themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e773	It is true, as the Prime Minister said, that some adjustments have been made. In the budget presented here, we have chosen to do other priorities than to prioritise increased rights for those who are self-employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e778	Under the Bondevik II government, a rights-based personal assistant for disabled people was proposed in the 2006 draft state budget. BPA, as it's called, gives the individual much greater freedom in everyday life and a much better opportunity to participate in society, and not least to work. With BPA you can be the head of your own life, and that's a value that matters to the Right. However, in the proposal for a new law on health and care services in municipalities, government parties are not in favour of the rights of user-led personal assistant, despite the fact that the government parties promised this in the election campaign. So they've broken their promises to the disabled. Why does the Council of State not support the alternative proposals of the Right in the budget today and give this right to the disabled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e786	Firstly, the system of user-led personal assistant is a scheme that is below the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Therefore, it would be right to ask the question to the Minister of Health and Health, as I understand, to debate the matter in this Chamber today. We have put forward a new health and social law that clarifies the rights of the individual user in a new way. It is our action to strengthen the rights of those who need services from the public. However, I believe that this specific matter belongs to the budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which, as far as I have understood, will be dealt with later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e793	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e796	As reality manifests itself from Akersgata, or from the Lion's Hill for that matter, there may be every reason to remember that Norway is actually one of the world's best countries to live in. We've survived the financial and debt crisis without sinful but with the prosperity in hand. We've never felt better. Unemployment is below 3 pst. We keep order in the economy. We have low price increases, stable exchange rates and low interest rates. Nevertheless, during the winter of dissatisfaction, the special interests, egoism and the demands of mentality are cultivated, while the whole is drowned in individual cases, which are immigrated to prison, if any, by social security rights, interpreting services or service dogs, which in and on a case-by-case basis are important enough. But no speculation is so generous that it cannot end up on VG's first page or as a feature of the TV 2 news with comments from the Progress Party. Of course, the opposition, of which the Party of Advancement, finds its own joy in nagging during the notion that most things are going wrong in the country. Therefore, the height of the drop becomes so large when they are asked to formulate their own alternatives. The new feature of the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee is that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have tried to write together in a common note. There they agree easily on all criticisms of the government. However, when they are asked to formulate common policies, in so far as they are not mandatory, it ends up that all parties, including the Red Party, could have joined most of them before they go to their own and very fragile lot markings. In this respect, the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee is an illustration of today's political situation. So, of course, it's not said that everything is good and good in society, and that therefore we can lean back in satisfaction over the state of things. Although a lot has been done, a lot has been done, and of course we could have wanted more for many good purposes. But every budget is a balance, and we're not all solving problems right away. I note that despite the disagreement on individual matters, there is relatively broad political agreement on the main priorities. The exception is, of course, the Progress Party. Government policy is characterised by the line of work. For my party, employment policy has always been dominated by other policy areas. Today, as at the end of the 1970s, Norway is ‘an island of full employment in a sea of unemployment’ to use the then Prime Minister Odvar Nordli’s law. But even if we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, it is still a step up to the goal of working for all. In addition to the unemployed, many of those referred for various reasons to live on public budgets have a strong desire for work and income. But then we also have to create a working life that is capable of accepting and benefiting from those who initially do not take the lead in the competition for a job. That is why we are in the process of making it easier to commute between social security and work. That is why we are on the threshold of a pension reform that encourages older workers to stay in work longer, because work and value creation are the key to future welfare. I do not conceal that it is demanding – not only because we all have to provide more for the same pension, but also because an unfortunate alliance between the extreme right and the extreme left in the political periphery is trying to imagine that we can continue as before, while we are becoming more and more pensioners with good pensions, to be paid by fewer professionals. Of course, it is safe to know that all parties other than the Progress Party are at the pension settlement and thus ensure the political sustainability of the pension reform. Nevertheless, there are many concerns about future pensions, also because the pension scheme is so complicated that it is difficult – until the impossible – to find the basis for own pension choices. Of course, the fact that we are going to operate in the future for a few years with an old and a new pension system, with integrated coordination rules, does not make it easier, although the objective has always been to make the pension system simpler.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e816	The party of progress is based on a holistic approach that can prevent people from becoming long-term ill and ending up as untrained, and the recipe is logical and simple. The party considers waiting times in the healthcare system to be an unnecessary evil, and all experience shows that long health care periods often end up with disability. In the context of work-related relief measures, short time and rapid clarification are also of great importance, both for the jobseeker and the employer. In order to succeed in increasing the number of disabled people in the labour market, it is necessary to increase the budgets to meet the need for better organisation of work and adequate access to various types of tools to improve working conditions. The organization aid scheme is too poorly known, it seems bureaucratic, and it is also seen as unfavourable when employers continue to cover 40 pst. of the expenditure itself. An application for this type of social benefit at work has fallen by 25.2 million. kr from 2006 to 2009 – and there is a reason for this. The Progress Party has repeatedly asked the government to look at the reason why this grant is not being used. We also ask – together with the Christian People's Party – the government to present necessary legislative proposals to ensure that workplaces for people with disabilities are organised based on support schemes funded by Nav. Throughout the year, the Committee has received requests for the closure of existing sites, despite the fact that many are waiting for offers. We have also recorded that VTA sites have become a balancing item, despite the fact that many are waiting for a permanent job offer and that the offers are actually available. The progress party seems strange that the government is complying with the lack of offer to cut with approx. 7 000 places in 2011 and that the organisation offer is not strengthened. In relation to the government, the Progress Party proposes to increase the number by approx. 9 000 places, of which 2 500 are earmarked for permanent job placements. These should be separated into a separate entry, for these are permanent jobs. In order for Nav to be able to offer high-quality work measures, contract partners and employers need more predictability in relation to how to build up their offers and what they can expect from grants and assistance. The system of temporary wage subsidies should be used more frequently and the grant should also be used in cases where developmentally disabled persons may enter normal employment. The Progress Party will remove unnecessary barriers to participation in working life for people with disabilities. We chose, in our alternative budget, to strengthen the appropriations for assistance, work trips and educational trips, and to ask for these schemes to be transformed into permanent schemes in the area of social security. The Progress Party has also strengthened the budget for reading and writing aid and has asked the government to file a case with a view to removing the ceiling for writing aid for the blind and partially sighted. The Service Dog Association, through its project and through user experience, has shown that such a dog can be crucial for how a person manages everyday life. The party believes that the experience that you have today shows that service dogs can be a very necessary tool for many disabled people. Therefore, an overall opposition suggests that a service dog be approved and financed in the same way as a guide dog for the blind. The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal that last year's 3 million allocation be made. kr may be used for replacement dogs, but in addition increases the budget by 4.4 million. kr to ensure replacement dog, and to ensure a new user new dog. The current regime of the 26-year rule is age-discriminatory and prevents many access to training and stimulation aids. The Progress Party has proposed removing the age limit and has therefore strengthened its alternative budget by 30 million. kr. There is a serious social problem, and there is evidence of a crazy society, when more and more people in the pre-employment age live by social happiness over time, and more and more with little or no work experience are introduced into a passive social welfare system. The qualification programme is, as the Progress Party sees it, job training and qualification assistance for those who need extra help to get into work. And it's a paradox that, in many cases, qualifying aid will prevent more people from participating in the programme. The qualifying aid has now been transferred to the municipalities in the framework allocation, and the Progress Party fears that this will lead to the municipal economy deciding who will participate in the programme. Voluntary organisations have an important role and provide many assistance to disadvantaged people, which can lead to more masters in everyday life. We also believe it is important that non-governmental organisations run by people with user experience should be given an even greater opportunity to contribute their skills towards public utility. The Progress Party has reinforced in its budget actions that help to enable people with disabilities and disadvantaged to participate in both work, leisure and social activities. It pays off socio-economically, and it will give many a better everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e846	The Nav employees live by great ambitions – our adopted ambitions. I think it's important that everyone, no matter what political color you have, does not turn up a greater pressure to expect the Nav staff than what is realistic to achieve. It may not be so strange that in the public vocabulary we are characterized by impatience, because we want to solve so many societal tasks. However, there are such things that can help increase sick leave in Nav, if that's how employees come to work every day and feel that the adversity is great, and you don't get all the positive things you want to do. It has given many tools to assist people outside the labour market. When I've been around the Nav local office, there are a lot of people who impress, and I want to draw up some examples of a successful social policy. It is about the qualification programme, and it is about the repatriation guarantee for people who have been in prison. The fact that people who have lived a long time on social assistance, for the first time, get the economic breathing room that makes you actually manage to focus on what you have to do to get into work, makes an impression. It is to follow the line of work when the government also chooses to give priority to rewarding those who make an extra effort to qualify themselves for work. But above all, this is an investment in people, and also in community and security. As we get the return guarantee even better, it will be more good examples of people able to break their own criminal career and become active members of society. It's a social policy for more people at work. In the coming year, the crisis in the European economy will also have a stronger impact on the Norwegian labour market than it has so far done. Therefore, every day, the government will ensure that the situation in the labour market is taken into account, that Nav has the necessary personnel and tools to deal with the challenges posed by the labour market at all times. The government has been involved in providing Nav with a significant increase in the operating framework in the years that lie behind us, and this is mainly carried on this year as well. There have been large investments to put in the physical Nav local offices. What remains as the most important investment in the future must be to put in place a new ICT system. The majority are satisfied that the government grants money to complete the choice of concepts and will return to the Stortinget with it, so that the Storing can obtain the necessary appropriations for an ICT system that enables Nav staff to reach the intentions of the Nav reform itself. The civil opposition is pushing people with disabilities into a strategy to create more insecurity in working life by weakening job protection and by weakening the role of trustees. But it's not insecurity that creates inclusion. On the contrary, such a right-wing policy will help push people out of work. The government chooses to go the other way, and strengthens our work against social dumping and for a more inclusive working life. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen spoke a lot about those who had helped to ensure that unemployment in Norway remained low, namely the owners and employers. I also want to commend employers for this. However, as the right and others also need to understand, it is about taking care of those employers who provide good, inclusive jobs, good pay and safe employment – the employers who are concerned about it – and it is precisely these employers who risk being out of competition if we do not take social dumping seriously. This is therefore a struggle that must unite both authorities, workers and employers. It'll cost us all if we don't succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e861	Let me start by saying that I think it is sad that the functioning State Council for the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, Tora Aasland, who has the primary responsibility for the disabled, has not found that would be present in this budget debate today. And it's a little bit on my mind, because I'm going into just these questions. It is true that most people have education and jobs as their goal, and expect to plan and live their lives independently. The right objective is a society with opportunities for everyone, where everyone should be self-held, participate in the labour market and participate in the development of wealth as far as health allows. On the right, disabled people will have opportunities for personal development, participation and life development in line with other citizens of society. That's why we've presented what we choose to call a first step in an employment strategy for people with disabilities. Several of the proposals in our strategy have also been promoted in the 2011 Højre alternative state budget, and several others will be promoted through their own proposals in the UK in the coming year. In Norway, we are satisfied that employment is high and that we have low unemployment, but if we look at the figures more closely, the picture is more gloomy: employment is significantly lower among people with disabilities than it is for everyone else. However, many of them are fully capable of working if work or tasks can be organised. However, despite the fact that inclusion of people with disabilities in working life has been one of the three main objectives of the IA agreement for eight years, little has been done to increase the number of people in employment and employment. That's why we're proposing a simplification of the guarantee arrangement, and we're adding 10 million. to this in the budget. This is why we have also chosen to give priority to 3,000 areas of action specifically targeted at people with disabilities, so that more people can be qualified for the labour market. The key success factor of a modern welfare society is the extent to which society is able to include people with special assumptions about key arenas such as working life and education, and other arenas that create opportunities for the individual. Many people face disability thresholds that make the road farther to go, and many who in other contexts have the full ability to participate are at a young age disqualified. These are hardly perceived as the noble mark of the welfare society. We have to make sure to reverse that development through a commitment to tools for people with disabilities that strengthen the working line. That is why we are strengthening the arrangements for work and education trips and assistants, and we are proposing to make this permanent scheme, as well as to reverse the government's cuts in some of the areas. The right-hand approach is ‘From good enough to best’. This is consistent with our welfare perspective: the state should not – and cannot – be everything for everyone, but it should be strong for those in need of help. A ‘good enough’ offer shall not be a resting-room in a society where over 90 000 disabled people are waiting for assistance to get to work. Someone needs a little bit more to have the same amount. That's why we have to get the best possible. The first step on the road is to put away the idea that a disability will prevent someone from having the same opportunities as others. For most people, it's not like that. There shall no longer be any automatic provision for a young person to be offered disability benefits in 18-year leave from Nav because he or she is disabled. But it has to be automatic in that if the same person meets Nav for assistance, then he has to be good, accurate, quick and effective. The right understands the disappointment in the environment that government parties will not attach rights to user-driven personal assistant. Right will attach it to rights, and we also point to Econ's analysis for ULOBA, which says that two of the three who had BPA thought that this assistance made it possible for them to be at work. The differences in today's society are greatest between those who work and those who don't work. For too many, the entrance to a social security system is also the exit from work and into a life of great diversity. This does not apply at least to injured persons. We can't decide here today to eliminate the differences in society, but it would be with the Right voice if we could. But we can create a society where it's easier for each one to get out of a social security system and into the labour market. The rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistant is such a measure, which is not least important for the working line. That is why I think it is nice that the Council of State instead referred this directly to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e882	This year's budget is a savings budget. These are difficult times in Europe and the world, and in many countries we see a great deal of social unrest, a high proportion of the unemployed, large cuts in welfare schemes and politicians who have to make much more difficult choices. The budget ensures work for all and increases the breakdown of Community funds by solidarity. In times of recession, it is more important than ever to agree on the challenges. Gabriel Scott tells in the book Iron Burden about the everyday lives of poor people for approx. 100 years ago. He writes: «Everyone is fully occupied with himself, here is too little spirit of society. It comes back from the fact that it's small with the victim's will. And without being willing to sacrifice, there won't be any community spirit here – it's the same thing it's going to grow up from, the one who's going to weld it all together." In times of decline, it is more necessary than ever that we who have much can bring out the will to sacrifice and create a good spirit of society. It's better to be together on the challenges than to stand alone. This is the core idea of the Community community of the Workers' Party. Together, we're going to create values, and together, we're going to distribute them, so that no one is being exploited or pushed out. The budget to be adopted today is the main budget for creating, sharing and reallocation. Work for everyone is goal number one. In Agder there are still newspapers that tell about cancellations and lay-offs. And the crisis is not over, although it can sound like that when we hear the opposition's cry of complaint about everything that's wrong in the world's best country to live in, and one of the countries of the world with the highest productivity. Despite the fact that the world is now experiencing its greatest financial and economic crisis in modern times, we have been able to maintain and develop society and services and enable them to meet their future needs in a good way. A budget based on Community ideology is a broad budget. Good health and safe living conditions are essential prerequisites for each of us to work and create values. Well-being is not synonymous with wealth, so you can get the impression when you hear the opposition overwhelm each other in measures to give more prosperity to the individuals in a society where you stand alone on the tasks. The privatisation and tax cuts policy of the right-hand side weakens the Community integration as a system. Right-hand talk about ‘Member State of custody’ and ‘Outership’. I think – if I'm allowed to say that – that there are two nasty words. What are the signals for the ‘supplier State’ and the ‘outership’? I do not fully understand it, but I know with certainty that I do not want to be taken care of or to be outside. And I'm assuming that the Right doesn't talk about itself when they use these terms. No, it's probably the others, the ones that don't succeed, the ones that are considered to be burdensome, that fit into those terms. In many other countries, the elderly are only older, and the sick are only sick. They are not available in statistical statistics, only in the care of the family. The film Karamell, about three ladies and a hairdressing salon, showed how a woman had to choose between the love of a man and her senile mother who lived in the loft. This is the reality for many in countries without good public welfare arrangements. The opposition seems to be superior, and especially the government, to giving winning weight to individuals and individual groups. There's not much community spirit and sacrifice in such politics. It is far from the Workers' Party's objective of a welfare state, where providing security and equal opportunities for all regardless of social status, education, economics, ethnic background or any disease, is the most central task of the State. The government's policy of working to all realizes values for the individual, the family, the community and the state. Government action in many areas is building on the line of work and reducing poverty. Reducing the number of high school graduates, a qualification programme that offers a wide range of opportunities in the workplace, the work on new unfavourable reforms to make it easier to combine work and social security, the improvement of the student loan scheme for disabled people and early work for children and young people, so as to avoid the transfer of problem and inability to work from one generation to the next, all have the aim of enabling more people to take responsibility for their own lives. Those in need of the Community contribution shall not experience being called ‘outership’. The right is approaching the Workers' Party in the rhetoric, but the Progress Party in practice. Both have policy objectives of weakening the core pillars of the welfare state: broad tax bases with redistribution, efficient public sector and the realisation of tripartite cooperation. The opposition on the right-hand side doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e909	The Progress Party budget indicates that there will be room for everyone in the world of work, and it will pay off to work. The public continues to rush out. At the same time, there's a large group that we can't find room for: the disabled. And it's not just this group that falls out of work. One has non-100 pst. who have the capacity to do some or some of the work. We have the many young people who fall out of the education system and are made almost into involuntary social clients or disabled people. There is a lack of action here. Many of the unemployed have been looking for a job for a long time. They labor the most to get back to work. In the last year, the number of people who have been applying for a job for sixteen years has more than doubled. This is not good. In the health sector, 56 000 part-timers want to work more. Here, where they need their hands, you will find that because of rigid systems that make it easier for employers to add people in part-time rather than on a full-time basis, they are added to the losses. According to Nav, women under the age of 40 are also an increasing group in the unemployment line. This is alarming. One element here that you should discuss is whether the parental leave, which is now becoming smaller for mother, is pushing more into part-time work than before. Because there is a difference between going out to work again when the child is seven months old and when it is ten months old. This should be taken seriously by the government and government council, as this group is the one who actually makes up the part that gives birth to children. So one should not be surprised if this group chooses part-time work, or, in the worst case, unemployment. One needs to focus more on getting these different groups, with their individual needs, into the workplace, instead of depreciating them with different social security schemes, which could be the worst outcome. The fact that government doesn't want to keep an intensity on this is very disturbing. The Progress Party has increased the number of action sites, focused more on the follow-up of health care professionals and job seekers in its budget, including in the form of an increase in the efforts of the ‘Raster Back’ project, and has increased access to health services, so that health care professionals are faster back to work, instead of continuing to report health care pending treatment, which costs society and the individual large sums and a good deal of life-sickness. This, in turn, will lead to large savings in the population's total expenditure, as shown by our alternative budget. At the same time, an effort is made to ensure that people who are not at any level economically active and can obtain income from employment receive a benefit from a social security system that can provide a decent, sober existence and security for their own living. But then one has to rule out the possibility that there is some work capacity left, for the benefit of the individual and society. That's why it's important that Nav here works completely. In that case, a non-long wait, paper root, bad follow-up or computer system may have expired a long time ago. At the same time, a personal treatment from some Nav adders is also the closest. Yes, in fact, there are still such feedback from the users. That is why we have once again proposed a Nav ombudsman, while the government is thinking and thinking about doing something about it – and more and more people are being affected by different problems. But maybe they think the need for a Nav ombudsman is going over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e922	We have a budget this year to show that the government's policy in the financial crisis was right. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We are still in the top tier in terms of the proportion of the population at work, according to the OECD. The working line is, I can assure you, fundamental to the formulation of government policy. So that's how we actually have to create before we divide. During 2010, we have done two important things in terms of our way of working, which I consider to be useful for repeating, because that is part of the basis for this year. We have introduced redundancy payments, and we have combined the temporary benefits, so that we can use the right measures at the right times for the right people, and don't care so much about what kind of income insurance you've had. Then we've said that it should be a work experience assessment -- it's a statutory opportunity you have -- because we want to know what we can do to get you back to work, and we want to do it with you. We think that's fundamental to our way of working forward. A new IA agreement was also concluded in 2010. It's also fundamental to how we get to the goal, by making people get to work and stay standing there once they've achieved it. That is why, in 2011, we put funds at the disposal of the former and closer follow-up of the sick subject, measures to strengthen work compared to the sick. We're going to add up to 153 million. extra kr in order to be able to follow up the intentions of the IA Agreement. It's a basic and important way of working. It means earlier, closer and better follow-up of those who need it. Because we know that you're on long-term sick leave, the risk of falling victim to disability is actually much higher in the long term. That's what we want to help them avoid. Employment rates in Norway are very high. In Norway it was 76.5 pst. for the age of 15 to 64 years. If we compare ourselves with the other OECD countries, it was there at 64.8 p.m. It simply means that in Norway we can do more than what the rest of the world does. It's a positive move, and we're going to do even more of that. Our goal is to increase this share – not to leave it there, but to increase it. This means that we need to design schemes that give those who do not get into the labour market today, proper and good help at the right time. Today, the results of the PISA surveys were available at school. Norway has now reversed the downward trend after a few years of red-green government, and we are now among the top ten OECD countries in reading. We're actually number. 2 in the OECD, but we're among the top 10 in the ranking. There has been a marked progress since the 2006 results. It's important to create the possibility of a job later. That is why we have also started work on the employment strategy – finding all the good measures that will work together to achieve this in the long term. Therefore, it is positive that the Right signals that they are now taking a round, and should give priority to getting more. But I have one concern about this year's budget, which I actually have to discuss with you. I see that the Progress Party is far-reaching in the major safety nets that we as society have designed. They cut off the sick pay, the daily allowance and the disability benefits. What worries me is not that you have an intention to reduce the need for these benefits – we can all share that. But I'm worried about reducing the use of money before you get the results. And that's a lot of money. I'm just thinking, how many people are this about? Because it's sometimes easier to relate to people than to numbers, even for a good, tanned economist. In the number of people, if we're going to do this from 1 January, it's going to have to be 9 400 fewer on sick pay, 6 000 fewer on daytime pay and 6 100 fewer going from full disability to full-time work – there's 21 500 people in a New Year's promise who are going to be able to get into a working life that is not clear there today, they're going to get fresh. That is the result if this is done from the beginning of the year. If we say that the measures take some time to work, we see that the Progress Party supports it. They think that action is needed to get people back to work. And actually, if we wait until 1 July, we're talking about 51,000, which is going to have the same effect. It's demanding, and we just have to say that it doesn't think the government parties are possible. We hope, in line with the Progress Party, that there will be fewer who will need that kind of performance during 2011. But before we know that it's less, we don't reduce the use of money. It's treating real people in a real world with real respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e937	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e941	The unison message from the government parties today is that we have it so well here in the country. Everything works. The well-being is excellent. We have a low unemployment rate. We're an island in relation to the same unemployment in the international community. Anyone who has other suggestions makes the closest guess at the state we have. But it's not like that. We need to look forward. We need to think about how to maintain well-being, how to increase value creation and get the jobs that are needed. I no longer hear anything particularly from the government parties when, for example. the elimination of poverty. It's quiet. But poverty and industrial policies and jobs are closely intertwined. That's not what Andersen's representative says in an article here, that they handled the financial crisis as well here in Norway, and then it sounds like it was a government invention. But there wasn't one single measure that didn't have the full excitement of all the parties in the Stortinget. This was the case for all measures. It was because they were reasonable, and because it was absolutely necessary to do it. But to assume a monopoly on having ensured well-being and, to the extent that a monopoly on the heart, I would definitely warn against. We need to create jobs to take care of well-being in the future, and some have to do so. We need to stimulate those who are going to work in the companies. This does not mean that every incentive through, for example: tax relief is an estimate of well-being. On the contrary, it is an action to create more well-being. It's a measure to raise your eyes, look ahead, see what we're going to live on in the coming years. In this context, where the opposition is accused of almost kicking its legs under the welfare community, society itself has experienced a significant increase in poverty in this country, not least in the case of children. We've heard that in articles here today. I must say, that's troubling. Now that we're going into the sixth year of a red-green government, you don't have a better state in that area, but use the opportunity to criticise those who will create jobs that can also help abolish or at least reduce the same poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e950	In this debate I have noticed several things. To take the last one first, what has come from several representatives of the Labour Party, that the Progress Party cuts in performance: just to repeat it, that debate I think we can put to death. We're dealing with the estimates that come from the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has also made its own estimates in relation to the balancing proposition. It is strange that one type of estimate is taken into account in its own balancing proposition, and a total of other factors in terms of the Propulsion Party's proceeds calculations into a budget. I think most people understand that this is – excuse me, the term president – simply being whispered. Then I have also registered that the government parties are satisfied with the appropriations for Nav, it is stated explicitly in the form of a note. Does this mean that the government parties are now satisfied that Nav has to reduce the number of employees in the premises by 160? I have registered that the representative Andersen expressed concern that the policy to which the Right provided would have led to fewer resources and that fewer users would be helped. It had to be the case in this way with the government's own policies, which do not take the necessary promises that it really believes are right. Another concept that has been left in the last few months of this debate – and Gullvåg was also involved in pensions – is ‘fair distribution’. The Progress Party promotes in its alternative budget proposals to remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. The new pension scheme will result in a much greater curtailment for those with low incomes than for those who earn more than 400000 kroner. It's well documented and can be calculated. Where's the fair distribution there? If you have an income above NOK 400000, you will not have a curtailment, but if you have an income of around NOK 300000, you will suddenly have about NOK 25 000 in curtailment, which is an increase of over NOK 10000 compared to what is the curtailment today. I think that's far from fair distribution. Here you hit them with low income. It is also a consequence of the policy put forward by the government. Therefore, it would have been best to remove the principle of curtailment. We record that the disability pension case is being postponed until Christmas. We record that permanent legislation on short-term benefits is not in place. A number of unexplained things aren't in place. This means that everyone knows that the pension reform will start on 1 January, but no one knows what is going on. That is why I would have liked the majority in this Chamber to have supported the proposals of the Progress Party to postpone the whole reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e963	The President would point out that the 'visvas' is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e966	The government has a primary goal of working for everyone. High employment ensures well-being, reduces social disparities and poverty. Among some immigrant groups, unemployment is significantly higher and employment is much lower than the average. At the same time, we know that working life is the most important arena for integration. Then the effort must be put there. Integration is more successful in Norway than in many other countries, but not good enough. Social differences following ethnic dividing lines are not worthy of a welfare society. ISF has been monitoring poverty for a 15-year period. It is found that most, including immigrants, have had steady income trends during this period. However, tax-free transfers and municipal services account for a greater proportion of the income for immigrants, especially for refugees. 8 pst. by the immigrants and 10 pst. of the refugees are long-term poor, against 1 pst. by the rest of the population. The proportion of poor people is highest among people from Somalia, Pakistan, Iraq and Turkey. The relationship between lack of work and poverty is evident. Combating poverty therefore means more than anything else qualifying immigrants for work. That is why I was positively surprised by the comments of the Progress Party expressing great concern about poverty and poor children in Norway. Does this mean that the Progress Party will now adopt a new approach to the majority's various proposals for positive instruments for the increased inclusion of immigrants? Nothing would be more joyous. However, if this does not mean a new course in inclusion policy, this policy is not linked. Then the concern of the Progress Party for poverty and poor children will only become words without content. Furthermore, the IMF monitoring shows that labour market measures work, including for immigrants. It is therefore important that the measures are constantly improved, that the content is adapted to the needs of the labour market and that the duration and content of the measures are adapted to the needs of the users. Immigrant women are a keyword in that way. The ISF study also shows that wage subsidies are one of the most effective measures we have, but that they are not used in a small way for immigrants. Wages and salaries subsidies provide jobs, networks and better integration. In the end, when we evaluate the Nav reform, and we do it on an ongoing basis, we also have to ask whether we have given the agency enough flexibility to address different needs among the unemployed, both in language, education and qualification. I'm recording that the Right will cut the Nav budget. On the other hand, the Right also claims that they will fight poverty. Then there is cut in Nav hardly the right medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e979	Now the Workers' Party has to decide. Now, the Council of State has just stood up here and justified the government's proposal to cut in Nav that there are better times in the labour market. It cannot be both that the cut of the Workers' Party is good, while the Right cut, which is well justified, is completely unacceptable. It is typical of the confusion that exists in the Workers' Party in such cases. But that's not what I was going to say. I was going to say something else, and that is that if it was so that one could adopt away, talk away or promise away from the poverty problems in Norway, it would have been done a long time ago. Nevertheless, poverty is growing. It has, of course, partly to do with how to measure poverty. We have a relatively poor concept, which means that if everyone gets better, while the poor get a little less, we get more poor. But it also has to do with a real problem, namely that in a good country like Norway, the contours of a new poverty, which is not just about income inequality, are seen. It's about a lot of complicated social problems. I tend to believe that income poverty is a major symptom of the problems. There may be social marginalisation, mental disorders, drug problems, lack of integration, lack of language training and very many other things. This means that the very first thing to accept is that the poverty debate in Norway is complicated. Trying to reduce it to something less complicated does not help poverty policy. For the right, there are two central angles of incidence. One is how we can help people get out of poverty. This is about parental policy – adult people living in poverty. It's all about everything from psychiatry to drug treatment, to Nav and how to lift people from social benefits and into working life in a simpler way. But then it is the second part of the policy that deals with how to ensure that, in particular, children living in families with poor advice are hit by it as much as possible. Then I would like to draw attention to some of the proposals that the Right has in its alternative budget, which should be able to become a reunited policy for the entire Norwegian economy, namely simple, reasonable proposals to ensure that all children in Norway have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities by having simple, unbureaucratic arrangements that enable their parents to get support for it. Our proposals could ensure that all municipalities in Norway have lending arrangements for equipment, so that the size of the wallet does not determine whether one gets a shot at Spiker Soup or a shot at Porsground or elsewhere in the country. Finally, we also want to ensure that cultural card schemes are provided throughout the country and in all the municipalities of the country, which are also a very simple and unbureaucratic way of ensuring that the children living in poor families have the same opportunities for participation as everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e990	If the working life is to function optimally, the school must also do the same. The school should be a place where the students are seen and challenged, where they grow like humans and where they get the skills they need. Today, the PISA results were presented. Some politicians have presented earlier PISA results as the ultimate proof that there is a bad situation in Norwegian school. If that's right, the trend has turned around. It's turned around pretty thoroughly. It has turned around in all the areas that PISA is investigating, and it has turned around under our government. When relevant in the debate on the labour and social budget, it is because good basic skills from school are crucial to meeting the future's working life. We are facing a constantly changing working life – where technological progress and an internationally oriented business life are demanding skills and knowledge. According to the OECD, we are the country with the lowest share of the workforce in occupations that do not require training. The need for unskilled labour will continue to decline in the future. One particular challenge in the field of education is the high drop-out rate among high school students. It is known that those who fall from higher education are more likely to experience unemployment, long-term health care or disability than those who complete. Our knowledge minister is the first person who has tort to figure out a goal for the non-response. She says that the implementation rate is going to increase by 6 pst, from 69 pst. to 75 pst. That means that 3,000 more students will complete each year. Several measures are already under way through the New GIV project. The State budget for 2011 has proposed a total of 175 million. kr for increased efforts in this area, both nationally and in the counties. What's important in the future is to continue the good work. We need to do something as confident as holding a tough course, working laboriously and in the long term with the measures that we know work – early and targeted efforts, close follow-up and adapted training. But above all, we must have more good teachers meeting the students with expectations. Because we don't have to lower the requirements, we have to raise the students. The PISA study does not measure everything that is important in school. It's important to remember in the further discussion, and it's important that it's sober. But it measures something. The results from today give School-Norway good reason to straighten our backs, and they give us politicians reason to fold up our sleeves. We want to ensure a good school where all the students evolve, and that meets today's and the future's working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1009	Norway is a rich country where the very people, most of them, are doing very well. Therefore, poverty among those who are outside and feel outside also becomes much clearer and much more serious. If you look at poverty in Norway and who is poor, there are many reasons, but there is one common feature, and that is that those who are family dependants are out of work for a long time. If one looks at the reason for being out of work for a long time, it is often linked to a disease situation. Special drug use and psychiatry are over-represented in the cause of long-term outreach. Psychiatric disease has the special characteristic that it is actually a juvenile disease. Three out of four people who have a mental illness are onset of that disorder before they reach the age of 25. This means that some of the most important things you can do to ensure that young people do not fall out of the labour market or leave it to enter the labour market are as early as possible to offer a good deal to those with mental illness. In 2009, 4700 children and young people with severe psychiatric disorders were not treated within a medically-defined time limit. Many of these went on for months before they started treatment. These are those who are so ill that they are given a medical deadline. Government Parties refuse to vote in favour of opposition proposals to allow them to use available capacity at an earlier date. There is no capacity available, but the government parties refuse to allow these children and young people to use the available capacity. Within a rush you see the exact same picture. The waiting time has increased dramatically under the red-green government. Many do not receive treatment, while at the same time reducing good treatment provision. The third group is people who are chronically ill. They could have been rehabilitated, they could have been trained. Institutions throughout the country are now being laid down, although there is a great need for this type of service. It is these instruments that will really mean something in the fight against poverty in Norway, to provide sick people with treatment at the earliest possible time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1022	It is important to prevent people from falling out of work to unemployment in the event of illness. It is important to have good health money rules with early efforts. A disability pension usually starts with the first sick leave day, and it can also start with the first day of unemployment. In this way, labour market measures are one of several good measures. I am recording here today that the Progress Party is trying to make it sound dramatic, and one would think that the government's proposal in the budget is record-breaking. This government and the Stoltenberg I government have provided a historically high level of labour market measures. I am pleased that we are continuing the level for the second half of 2010 to 2011. Then it is important to know the labour market on the pulse, sick leave and those who fall out of work on unpaid pay, if these can come back to work. I believe that the government's focus on IA targets for work for people with disabilities will provide concrete proposals that need to be followed up with measures. Then it might be appropriate to see if you want to increase the number of labour market measures, so that we can provide additional help to get results here. So one important thing about Nav: For a while back, a selection of experts was set up for Nav. This sample was to look at the service offer and the division of tasks internally in Nav, between the front and the public services. The report from the sample has been completed. I believe that one of the most important conclusions in this report, as I see it, is that one should not increase the service provision, but concentrate it. To get some peace around Nav, I think it's necessary to take this report down and say something about what you're going to do with what's lying there. Things like this will be very important contributions to getting Nav up and standing, as the representative Trettebergstien explained very clearly earlier today. Finally, I would like to say that a lot has been said about combating poverty. You have different answers here. The propulsion party wishes to cut the transitional aid for lone dependants with the possibility of taking education. I'm a lonely caregiver myself. Years ago, I went on transitional benefits. I took a different education and today I stand financially on my own legs. If I had not had that help at the time, but received tax reliefs that the Progress Party here today responds to be helpful, I am uncertain where I had been today. Tax relief of what? Tax relief of approx. $5,000 a month? Tax relief of nothing, for I had no rights to anything. That would not be what had led me and the kids out of the difficult economic situation. But that we got help in a transition phase, and that I got an education, has got me on my own, independent legs. I got a chance! The government has done a lot with poverty, and we are going to continue the fight against poverty with good measures in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1037	Poverty – and child poverty – is a major problem. That is precisely why we have spent a great deal of time in this budget on child protection – on a different budget than ours, but in the entire budget. It's incredibly important, because these are many of the children who later have serious problems because they haven't got help early enough. Then it's very special to get criticism from the two parties that have been cutting violently in the state child protection. It's these kids who have the worst, who need a state-enhanced foster home or place in a child welfare facility. The right was up there and said that maybe the most important thing we did was to get more people to succeed in school. Yes, then it might have been nice today that they had also acknowledged, once the PISA results have come, that the situation seems to be better, sail if I agree entirely with Hadia Tajik, who was up here instead and said that PISA does not say everything, but that it says something. Yes, we are putting the effort into these areas, and we are also working on the vocational theory disciplines in high school, so that many more will succeed in this. We are making an effort in this area that is important for fewer children to get it difficult. But what it boils down to here, I think when we add the tax tables next to the rhetoric to the Right and the Advance Party. Because that's where we see who's going to be stimulated to get more money. It's those who have good jobs and high incomes. They shall be stimulated by getting tax relief in the hundreds of thousands of krona class, while people who are sick obviously need more whipping to get into work. I don't know which people the Right Party and the Advance Party are associating, when they think that people are sitting and seeing that it's so intimate not to get a job, but to get a performance. I don't know any of those, I do! Everyone's tired, many are crying. They are desperate when they are ill, and also when they are discriminated against in the workplace and do not get a job. They are not stimulated by getting it more unsafe when they are out of work. They are stimulated by a secure income situation that enables them to get together in a difficult life situation and to accept, for example: education or training at work. This is important, because it is also that differences in health follow the economy as a line through a diagram, if you make it. It's called something as difficult as the gradient challenge. That means that these differences must be taken into account in all areas of policy-making. I experience that the Advance Party and the Right give tax reliefs to the healthy, rich who have work, and threaten those who are sick and out of work, with whips.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1052	The Progress Party believes that participation in the labour market is an important contribution to preventing poverty. A new Fafo report, prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, shows that 35,000 adults, who are unemployed, are currently living with a social benefit, and the reason for this is that they are sociable dependants. Many years ago, a social benefit was created called "mother's milk". I was myself one of those who had motherfucking. That time you could have had a mother's strike for ten years. One important reason why it was cut down to three years was that very many people did not get into work again. There was a social benefit where you were hanging in the poverty trap, in the social security trap. You were home too long. Today that is the three-year arrangement. When I visited a Nav office this summer, I received a signal that three years of passive social benefits are too long. A lot of people go out in the three-year period without applying for a job, without starting an education, without starting any activity. I have later received enquiries from other Nav offices saying the same thing. That's when we started to see if it's not more right to set the passive stroke time to one year. It's not about newborns here, it's about having a break in life. This benefit can be received until the youngest child is eight years old and in certain cases until the child is ten years old. In addition, this Fafo report shows that about 5,000 of those receiving the benefit are immigrant women — the least educated immigrant women, the least able of Norwegians. They don't get out again. They have children after children and become members of this social security scheme. Hanne Cecilie Kavli, who has prepared this report, says: ‘Women who do not speak Norwegian and who have little or no education need to learn a lot before they can hope to get a job. Unless they participate in a programme, the benefit is only a transfer of funds.’ And that's what we fear it has become – a transfer of money that keeps people in a passive social welfare environment. Maybe the ones that need it the most are the ones that don't start early. Those who are resource-intensive, those who want an education, and those who want to get a job, do it quickly, after a year. We therefore believe that the passive social welfare period is one year. Then, in order to continue to receive a benefit, they have to go into an activity to get into work. It is the goal of all, and it must also be the goal of those who are the least resource-intensive in this group. Because it's just the least resource-intensive we're trying to have social security schemes for for a period, so they can get a better life. This isn't to make life bad for anyone, it's to improve it and not to continue doing them bear services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1070	It has been interesting to record during this debate how the Right is trying to create its own well-being. This time we heard the representative, Røe Isaksen, speak warmly and beautifully about those who are at work – those who contribute to the creation of value in society. Then it might be interesting to look at what the Right does for those who are working. Indeed, the right is against any proposal aimed at preventing social dumping, they are against the principle of solidarity, they have been against the law of generalisation, they prefer that we have to have the greatest possible competition for the labour force, they have gone to weaken the protection of the health and safety of workers at work, they want more temporary work and greater uncertainty for workers, they want to erode the normal working day with various working time arrangements, and they want more employment. The only contribution they will make from tax incentives is to reduce the deduction from the trade union quota. This is the Right Offer to the employees. So I need to say something about Nav, because we're more than ever dependent on having a well-functioning work and well-being seat. It will necessarily take some time for a new organisation to adapt to as extensive a change as Nav has experienced. Nav is the authorities' main tool in welfare policy, with the emphasis that Nav must never live his or her own life out of politics and political priorities. When Stortinget e.g. says that the decline in the number of places of action should not affect those who have long-term job opportunities, we expect Nav to act accordingly, without having said that I want to have some sort of detailed management of the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1078	First, I would like to say that I think the representative Sylvi Graham was so wise in his post, but she said something about the fact that, in the Right's view, it should not be automatic in getting disability benefits as an 18-year-old. I can assure you, and remind Graham that there is no such thing as automatic. It is a long-term medical assessment that is behind all disability rejuvenation. So to Røe Isaksen, who in his entire rhetoric attacks the government to fail the workline, and he criticizes the representative Trettebergstuen not to talk about business owners, business managers and entrepreneurs. As far as I heard from both the representative Trettebergstien and others, they pointed to the importance of tripartite cooperation several times. It is employers, business managers and entrepreneurs who are one of the three equivalent parties to such cooperation. Red Isaac also pointed to the whole budget and that everything in the Right Budget builds up below the line of work. Then it's a little bit strange that the right is taking away 1.5 billion. kr to the district development fund – the whole pot is gone with a pen stroke. For West Agder's sake, that means $40 million. less active business policies, subsidies that have contributed to industrial development, growth and jobs, among others. in the NODE and EYDE networks, which are currently world leaders in the energy and offshore industries, and which say that they would never be where they are today if they had not had good cooperation with the public. But it might not be so strange, because when the Right had the Minister of Industry, the Right didn't have any more tools left in the toolbox. Now we have more tools, and we use them to maintain employment and create good lives for business leaders and employees. And then there are others from the Right who have said that we are taking too lightly on poverty and cohesion policy. When Røe Isaksen e.g. believes to find a confusion with the representatives of the Workers' Party, I must say that I am quite concerned about what kind of condition is expressed in the Right's opinion, that we take it easy. We don't take it lightly, and I haven't heard a single representative from the government parties say that we take lightly the fight against poverty, inclusion or social development. We fully understand that we have a lot of hard work ahead of us. That is why we are working with major changes in society, with employment strategies, we are pursuing an active business policy, and we have a clear and clear redistribution policy, which is also helping to make life and everyday life better for business owners. Representatives from the government parties have today clearly expressed this hard work from the pulpit. The right and the Progress Party's attempt to transform us into self-satisfied and superior politicians is not successful. The government and the Workers' Party will use all the tools we have. We need to improve, renew and convert.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1089	The representative, Røe Isaksen, accused the Workers' Party of sitting at a party office in Oslo and adopting what the welfare state looks like – that is, of course, not right. The Workers' Party has a lot of party offices. We have party offices in every cricket and hook in the country. We've had that for hundreds of years. We have not been sitting there and adopting what the welfare state should look like. We have built the welfare state – stone by stone. There have been workers gathered and built up that makes it possible for us today to call ourselves one of the world's best societies. There are pillars that the right side has challenged throughout the same story, and as the last six months have said they support in the rhetoric, but as they every day in this Chamber, by their concrete proposals, show that they will tear down, bit by bit, whether it be the weakening of welfare systems, the weakening of trade unions, or other choices in economic policy that lead to increased unemployment. Here the Progress Party is crystal clear, while the Right is still in political space. They've been trying to approach us throughout the harvest, but we see that it's not right, and they've even been in the last week to reduce social differences. It is also only in the rhetoric, and the representatives from the Right have today confirmed that it is only in the rhetoric, because the Right is not to redistribute. One also wants to weaken welfare systems and tear away the arrows in the Norwegian model. The right does not view large income differences as a problem, and is therefore not concerned with redistribution. Nothing new under the sun, that is, but a confirmation that the Right is always standing there: on the strength side. Well, it's not necessarily that much to say about. They are still standing on the far right, and show it in the debate today. The parties are bringing together in a comprehensive policy, which will weaken the welfare state. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, has been hard to get where it is in recent times, and definitely in today's debate as well. At the same time, the representative, Mr Ropstad, confirms that when he sees the whole of the opposition's policy against government welfare policies and against poverty reduction rather than tax cuts, he agrees that the latter is a more correct way to go. The Christian People's Party has to settle political accounts and choose side. They must. There are major ideological differences and conflicts between government parties and the right. We want to strengthen the line of work, include more by preventing and making working life more inclusive. We want to secure employee rights and extend well-being before giving a penny in tax bills. Here the Christian People's Party must choose sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1096	The representative Trettebergstuen had a good start on the day when she said that a responsible budget is one that ensures the security of people's jobs and homes. I fully agree with that. This also applies to the job of disabled people. So ask SV who should be stimulated, and who should be whipped. Right, people think they're being stimulated by the fact that they have a job. Everyone knows that the right is concerned with creating more jobs. We reduce taxes on wealth in order to secure Norwegian jobs. We're raising the top tax entry point, so people with normal incomes are not going to pay top taxes. We reduce income tax the most for those who earn the least, so that it will pay more to work, and that the line of work can be followed. Right, believe that people are the most likely to do themselves. The right will also remind us that we're adding 150 million. in the budget to grade kindergarten rates and thus to give them more reasonable kindergartens with the most poor advice, so that kindergarten reform is not only a medium-class reform but also for those who serve little. A group that often strives in life and in the workplace is just disabled. At this budgetary round, the right has put forward a number of proposals, which I have explained earlier, to ensure that precisely these about 90,000 people, who would like to work, can do just that, have a decent life and be proud to be able to do themselves, as far as advice is concerned with their own job. In our committee we are responsible for, among other things, working life. Work for anyone who wants is important, for example: for disabled persons. The government has a collective responsibility for all the government's proposals relating to this, namely employment in Norway. That is why it is sad that the functioning Minister for Equal Opportunities is not here. Therefore, it is sad that the Minister of Labour does not find that the BPA scheme is a scheme that helps people with disabilities to take advantage of it in order to participate in the labour market, and not just to have it as a health service. SV has been involved in counting the misdemeanours recently, and the representative Andersen has had several posts, among others. in the Financial Paper, in which she argues about the increase in the number of miscarriages. I leave it, but I'm interested in a little passage that says there, and I'd like to quote: ‘We would like to discuss proposals that help to make people healthier or make working life more accessible to disabled people.’ Why is it not possible for SV to discuss with Right- and Right-Despite BPA, to make work and education trips or assistants a right, to increase the appropriations for these measures, and to channel 3,000 more areas of action towards the disabled, or to provide 20 million? Do more to measures for dyslexics, just to help people get into work and make sure that they get through school in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1116	In a debate like this, I think there is reason to remind ourselves that in Norway we have more people employed than any other country. We have fewer unemployed people, and we have fewer who are privately cared for. New numbers from the SSB, with which I stand in front of me, show that in 1993 there were 18 psts. by residents of Norway for a public benefit. In 2008, the figure was 15 pst. So there are fewer people who have social benefits as their main income now than in 1993. Then I agree with all those who have been to the pulpit here today and be concerned that we are not able to bring down the proportion of people with disabilities who want to work. Therefore, Objective 2 of the IA Agreement is one of the government’s priorities in the future. We're working on an employment strategy, and we're going to work specifically to see if we can find new measures to take the group of young people with disabilities. Two ideas panels have been set up to bring about new measures now. We've spent a lot of money on this group for years, but we haven't been able to succeed. Therefore, we have to wait to see if there are any new measures we are going to implement. Then more are concerned with poverty. It's also the government, and we're going to be. I think it is important that we see the poverty effort in a large context where we focus on child protection, school and kindergartens. But then there are also many individual measures, and I want to mention in particular what has happened on the drug side, where we have increased the allocation by nearly 1 billion. kr in a few years in addition to what we do on the qualification programme, which is important. Increased and improved municipal economy has enabled many municipalities to also launch measures such as the rental of sports equipment, as a contribution to young people participating in leisure activities, so that more people participate in activities. Balancing economic and social differences is important to our government. In the same report that came from the SSB today, it says: ‘If we go back to the period 2001–05, however, there was a significant increase in the inequality over time, with the wealthiest tenth of the population having an increasing share of total income.’ I'm glad our government has managed to reverse that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1136	I hope it's just as important for the Workers' Party that there's people in this country in every crick and hook, like there's a party office. But I want to come back to what Karin Andersen from SV said earlier. It is not often in this room that SV and the Progress Party are a few things about something. However, the representative, Andersen, was able to say that the opposition opposed the use of 25 million. kr to project involuntary part-time. Perhaps it was a request from SV and the representative who expressed it when she claimed that we in the Progress Party went against the proposal. But, with respect to reporting, we're actually going in to give $25 million. kr for actions to overcome involuntary part-time. Then a visa to another person's budget should first of all say what is right. The central party's representative told me about all the positive employees he had made on his visit to the Nav office this summer, an experience that I also share with him. My visits to various Nav offices also showed a lot. Feedback is – in line with Pollestad’s representative – that something needs to be done with ICT. The importance of good travel creators for a good process was pointed out by the representative. But ten million. I don't give a lot of information about how many travel caps to make the big effort. The progress point has increased this entry by 200 million. kr. Then there will also be travel hubs and not just planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1145	The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1148	I was going to take the floor to say something nice about the debate and the other parties in and off, but there have been so many attacks that I don't have time for it. Karin Andersen's free imagination about Right-wing policy has not been my intention to comment. It is not possible to answer that, and there is no reason either. However, if you would like to see some concrete examples of the fact that the Right has gone into the forefront of important welfare policy reforms, you can take the current results of the PISA surveys. The promise of knowledge was a right-wing initiative. In fact, there is reason to pay tribute to SV as well, because SV voted for large parts of the Knowledge promise where the Workers' Party held the debate at the old school, and it took several years before the Workers' Party decided that it did not work in a school where the children were not taught the most basic skills. Finally, I have to reject the fact that the Right is trying to create the impression that the Workers' Party is self-satisfied and pompous. I don't think you need help with that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1157	As the representative of Mr Isaksen, I would also like to say that it has been a good debate. But I would also like to say that I think the debate has been relatively lukewarm. I have the impression that the representatives of the government parties are not really very proud of the budget they are going to vote for today. I have rather got the impression that many of the proposals for the opposition, and especially their Christian People's Party, have been so good that they would have liked to vote for them. That's why I thought it was an interesting fact, and have listened to the debate. There are several who are involved in a government discussion when they hold their posts, and demand answers from the Christian People's Party. I can say that the Christian People's Party is going to respond to what kind of government we want after the 2013 elections, but to decide on that is not going to happen. What I can say is that we want to replace today's government. We want a new course for the country, and the Christian People's Party, which I was in my post, wants a third alternative. We want a central policy that builds society from below, which assumes that there are good solutions on the right, but that there are also good solutions on the left. What I think is serious about today's government is that it doesn't listen to the good recordings that come from the right, that come from the center, for example. an important sector such as the ideal, voluntary organisations and the efforts they make in society today are not valued in a good enough way. When one sees that some of the most important areas in order to pursue a good welfare policy cannot take advantage of the tools that are there, it worries me. The representative, Karin Andersen, was involved in child protection. I could say drug policies in the same direction – non-profit organisations and institutions that are being laid down, and which are now at risk of being laid down because health professionals do not want to use them. When the representative, Andersen, is in the field of child protection, I will be the first to say that I thought it was great that there was a lift in child protection, and it is time. But I think it's a paradox that we've been more concerned with ensuring full child protection than securing all children a home. It should be possible for today's government to go in for a plan to secure full child protection, to ensure that all the children who have unfortunately fallen outside from the start could get the world they need hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1166	The representative, Karin Andersen, made a pissing post across the right, which there is every reason to answer. She claimed in her post that the Right uses whip to get the poor and the people who are at disability, back to work. Then I have to ask: what proposals in the Right Alternative State Budget is Karin Andersen thinking about when she obviously tries to create the impression that the Right proposes a reduction in social benefits in order for people to come back to work? At least I can't find one such proposal, and it would have been an advantage for the debate on Karin Andersen to explain what proposals it is. Is it that when the Right proposes the same social benefits as the Government, we use whips, while when the Government itself proposes it, isn't it whips? If that's the debate on the disability representative's thoughts, I perceive that we are in a situation where the Right is just discussing with the government, of which Karin Andersen is part, about how we can make changes to the disability regime, so that it will be easier for the disabled to work, for those who have the opportunity to do so. It may not be possible to propose that type of measure. So Karin Andersen brings forward our proposal to cut down on the state child protection bureaucracy and makes it a reduction in child protection. That's wrong. Right proposes to move good child protection professionals who have sucked from the municipalities and into a bureaucracy, back to the municipalities, so that they work with the children who need good professionals around them in a difficult situation. Then the representative also has the grace of fear to talk about the sick as one has to help back in work, when, in a debate that we're going to have later, the government parties are going to go against an overall opposition demand that precisely patients who are mentally ill, patients who are addicted to drugs, and patients who are chronically ill, be given priority before other patients in our healthcare system. This goes against the red-green parties, and then the representative Karin Andersen has the gift of frenzy almost stamping the Right as an unsocial party. The article from Karin Andersen is a typical article from her, an article that shows that she has reduced social policy to an envy policy, where it is more important to punish those who work a lot than to do what helps: help the poor back into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1177	The President will point out that the expression ‘greedy gift’ is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1180	I would like to comment on the progress party representative's play on removing the transitional aid for lone dependants. I totally disagree with what she thinks three years of passive transitional aid is too long. What I very much agree with her is that close follow-up along the way is very necessary and very important. From 1998 to 2000, I worked in the Social Security Agency's follow-up service as a follow-up manager for single dependants. The main task in the job was to follow lonely carers into work or activity, either in the form of a job or in the form of education. Based on that experience, I believe that lone dependants need to have some time to turn around. There are many different reasons for fractures. They are the ones who have experienced violence. They are the ones who have experienced adultery, death, illness or sick children – or simply have the common fatigue syndrome. Anyway, it's going to be a new everyday life. Three years is, based on my experience, what one might need to come back. The alternative can be economic social assistance. It can hardly be the way we're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1188	The representative, Karin Andersen, says in his statement that it's just adding the tax tables next to each other, you see right-wing non-social distribution policy. What's so unsocial about giving pensioners a less-advanced tax? What's so unsocial about increasing the minimum deduction, so that those who are going to get into the world of work and will make little profit get a larger deduction? It's unsocial now. When the Workers' Party proposed it in an earlier budget, it was okay. Now it reduces well-being. What's unsocial about raising the entry point for the top tax, so that people with ordinary income get a little bit more left at their own disposal? It was not unsocial and no estimate of welfare when the government did this earlier. Now it's all of a sudden. What's unsocial about reducing taxes on wealth by raising the point of entry at the bottom, which the government has done in the past? That's how you can go through all of the Right's tax proposals. The only thing that hasn't been mentioned before is that we're lowering the property tax a little bit more. It's simply because small businesses around will not pay taxes when the machines are standing, when they lose money, but nevertheless make a social effort by keeping people in work. That's how this works. Then I must also be allowed to say to the representative Henriksen, who was up here and said that the Right has attacked the red-greens of poverty policy, that we – at least not for my part – have said that it was taken lightly. I have said that they did not mention it at all, and that is a lot worse. But I see that it has come to light gradually in the debate. It was absent initially. The focus was on how to celebrate the beautiful situation that you think you have. Finally, only a small visit to the representative of the Trettebergstuen, who in several speeches today has called for a ghost of the indebtedness that would be felt in the country of origin if someone else were to come into responsible positions. I think the representative would rather start from her first post, where she says there are a number of things that still have to be done. Yeah, that's the greatest part. We're in the sixth year, and it shouldn't last that much. Let me also – as there is a little time left – visit the representative of Gullvåg. He's talking about social dumping in all forms, whether it's a flexible business or whatever it is. For me, the worst social dumping is that we don't get people to get to work, and that doesn't get any income at all. It's social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1203	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1206	I record that I have probably hit a very sore point at the Right when they are so incredibly provoked. I record in the debate that they talk about the moral decay of ordinary people in terms of sick leave and how easy it is to get social security, and that people choose social security over work. It's wrong. I put the tax tables in front of me on the table and read that those who have very small incomes are going to get a hundred dollars in tax bills, while you, if you make over three million. NOK, to be paid up to NOK 60000. There is a policy of distribution in which SV strongly disagrees, which will create more differences and which will not have more work to do. It is also true that the Right has cut the state child protection and that it will affect the most disadvantaged children. The proposals of the Progress Party on training aid cuts for the lone carers are a direct cut in what can get these lone carers into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1217	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1220	It is wrong that the government parties are not proud of their budget. Then the representative of the Christian People's Party has not listened to the budget debate. We are proud that we have a responsible budget that ensures low unemployment, takes care of those who are currently out of work, get more into activity and work, while finding room to build up well-being and bet on what is really important, among other things. children’s protection, school and care for the elderly — the important welfare systems. So for the Progress Party's creative bookkeeping and thrunking in the budget. It's not right, as the representative of the Progress Party says, that they base the government's figures. The party of progress is responsible for the government's number of sick leave, and then they cut in addition to it. It's irresponsible, and it's out of hand. If the budget of the Advance Party had been adopted from 1 January, the cut had to be taken elsewhere if the sick and ill suddenly recovered or got a job. Then it had significantly reduced benefits for the disabled and sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1227	The representative Sylvi Graham has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1230	In this debate the right has not mentioned moral decay in one word. But right-wing tax and business policies will create more jobs, and that's Andersen's representative. I read on from the excellent article she had in the Financial Newspaper. It says: ‘For SV, it is important to provide more people who are unable to work today to the extent that they can.’ I still cannot understand why SV cannot support our proposal of 10 million. to establish a green card as an organisation guarantee for disabled persons, to make the scheme of work and training trips a permanent offer, to open up the offer to at least 40 new applicants, and to increase the allocation by 5 million. kr, make the disability benefit more flexible, so that one can go down to 20 pst. incapacity in combination with a job, setting up 3,000 additional places for disabled people, increasing the allocation of facilities for pupils with dyslexia by 20 million. kr, plus a number of other good measures that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1240	I listen with interest when the Right People talk about fair tax distribution. For me, tax is perhaps the most important distribution mechanism we have in the Norwegian welfare state, where we simply provide according to our ability. You talk like tax relief is what's going to create a lot more jobs. Where in the world do you find evidence that this is correct, in relation to the Norwegian model? Although we have tightened up after Bondevik II, we have created more jobs in this period than was created during the Bondevik II period. It's indisputable, it's statistics. Although we have a moderate to high tax level in Norway, we are 10 pst. above the EU in terms of employment rates in the population. We're on about 75 pst. So where does Right find evidence that their tax policy creates more jobs? Can they point out in which country it has been a success? - That's the one. So to the other thing about tax. Only the property tax element, which both the Right and the Advance Party say they should be removed, will be about 14.3 billion next year. kr. Who's losing it? Yes, Oslo municipalities lose 1.8 billion. kr next year if we remove it, because seven elevenths of the property tax goes to Kommune-Norway. Now I'm going to be the first to say that Oslo Municipality has a lot to do in terms of improving efficiency. Because there has been a system of massive invoicing, where supply and demand is the only factor in how to operate municipal services. But anyway: 1.8 billion. kr less to the Municipality of Oslo will go hard on the financing of the welfare here in the city. How do they think their own town council would have accepted that news, in relation to striving? If we look around the neighborhoods, what are you doing in there? Well, it's in well-being — it's in youth action, it's in nursing homes. It's going the wrong way. Nevertheless, they will pursue a policy of 1.8 billion. kr from Oslo City only on the property tax element. The only reason that property taxes have not been imposed in this city and in Asker and Bærum is precisely that there is a high tax on wealth. But how to cover the 14,3 billion loss. kr, they say nothing about it. It has a dynamic effect on the Right Budget of 300 million. kr. They have a serious rhetorical problem as to how this is related. It would have been interesting if they could have been clear on how to create more jobs with their tax policy. Can they prove it? Which country, which statistics can they refer to? How are they going to finance $1.8 billion? kr in loss for the Municipality of Oslo if you remove the property tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1251	At least I want to take the opportunity, since I have 3 minutes, to thank people for their good efforts in the debate. It's been instructive, it's been exciting, and it's been rewarding to participate. Because it's actually about designing the most basic possibilities we have in this country. I'm going to give us all a challenge, across the party boundaries, because in the new year we're going to start working more actively with the employment strategy for the disabled. And if we notice the words we use in the course of the debate regarding the inclusion of people with disabilities, when it comes to the description of people at disadvantage, sick people who need help to get back to work, it's often about sick, weak, outside – all the descriptions are negative and are about weakness. I think I'm going to challenge, because I actually think those who are sick today, those who are disabled, and who are in full employment, are not representatives of weak people. They're extraordinarily strong. They are much stronger than the average Northman – for him it is to get a job clean plank driving. This is what we have to do when we're going to continue this job. Because we're going to design measures to remove the barriers that society's built over generations. But we're going to remove them in people's heads, because there are more barriers inside our heads than there are in the community around us for the rest of us. Employers in Norway have been asked what they think is difficult to employ in different groups with disabilities. They reported back that the blind cannot use data. It's to the extent that it's a good idea to have, but that doesn't mean it's true. I think it's about attitudes. This means that there are very many employers who choose not to call blind people for an interview, because they have a feeling that data cannot be used. But we've been fixing those tools a long time ago! These are the measures we need to package to make it visible that the value creation in Norway can be carried out by far more than those in the labour market today. So this is going to be a common challenge for all of us: we have to turn our rhetoric around. And I'm not shooting at the opposition; I'm sharing this challenge with both the opposition and the position, because this is our responsibility. And if we don't in this house manage to reverse that rhetoric, employers don't have so many possibilities, because then they get their directives with a design that says people are sick and weak. No, sick and weak in Norway are unusually strong people, who manage despite their challenges!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1264	Svein Flätten has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1267	I must confess that the representative Karin Andersen certainly met us on a delicate point, but not in terms of fiscal policy. It's safe for us, and we know that stimulating this way creates jobs. And I referred in my previous post to a number of tax species that the government itself seems useful when they propose it, but an estimate against the welfare state when others suggest it. But where I was hit, and what has made me take the floor again are the efforts of the red-green parties to establish a monopoly on heart layers, on the desire for welfare for the Norwegian population. It's not like that! We share the views that work for everyone is important, but in order to create work for everyone, we actually have to have some jobs. That's what's the difference between us and the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1278	The representative Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1281	I'm going to be able to bear the fact that the representative Fleet is trying to harp on my commitment to social dumping. Yes, I am upset that Norwegian jobs in serious companies, among other things. in the municipality of residence of the fleet, the life of a Norwegian foreign company registered in Lithuania with Romanian workers and with pay and working conditions with which no Norwegian company is able to compete. In my opinion, it is one of the most serious threats we have to Norwegian working life. And I wish that the Right did common cause with us in the fight against this obscenity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1289	What made me take the floor was two posts from this pulpit earlier. This concerns Breen, who asks whether we can refer to any country that can participate in and ensure the well-being of the Right Tax Policy. Yes, we can go to the Bondevik II government and what is called the covered table that the Stoltenberg government went to, Norway. High employment and a good economy – it was the so-called covered table. You don't have to go very far to see that the basis of well-being and securing jobs was actually the characteristic of that table. So a visit to Karin Andersen. Now I think I should remind you that SV was the party that wanted to eliminate poverty. That's where the party has moderated, because you can't see that it's going to work. You're going to try to make things better, but you've been decommissioned. I just dare remind you that both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party were actually involved in the action plan against poverty, which was presented under the Bondevik II government, not under the Stoltenberg I government. There was a broad uprising in the Storting about what was about the individual organisation to secure people's work, housing and support schemes, and there was broad support for it. The same was true of the disability action plan, which had exactly the same device, which also received a good response in the current positioning party, as it was at the time in opposition. The same was true of facilitating well-being – which the Stoltenberg government had not done before – by legislating the individual’s individual right to an action plan, which very often characterises those who are just in need of help and should have this safety net, which we have laid the foundation for all of them. So trying to stick on the Right stamp that we're not concerned with the individual human being, arranging for work and having a tailor that makes it possible both to get into work, get own housing and have the necessary web around it to get everyday to go, I believe in the most definite I'm going to reject. Then I have to say that I am calling for a greater degree of humility. Over several decades, this Assembly has been committed to facilitating a safety net and a welfare policy that enables us to have what characterises our welfare society, Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1300	Kari Henriksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1303	Just a little comment on the debate that is now going on about which parties and directions are best on employment. It is true that things happened during the Bondevik I administration, but I also remember that there were quite a number of critical voices to the business policy that was then pursued. I remember looking up from business leaders who were very dissatisfied with the employment strategy that the government had. There was a big look in the media about cuts in municipal provision, about measures that were not financed from government budgets. Everyone agrees that it's important to have people in work, but when it comes to how we're going to succeed, our paths are separated. That's where we have different opinions. It's not about minimizing or saying that they don't have morals, or that they think differently about people other than what we do in the Workers' Party or in the Government, but it's the instruments that are different. That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1312	I'm not going to spend my entire speaking time in 3 minutes. I just want to say that statistics and mathematics are to the extent both difficult and simple, but when the representative Schou claims that Bondevik II was better at creating more jobs, that's not right. Today we have a historically low unemployment rate. It's been 20 years since there's been such a low unemployment record. We register leave in exactly the same way as before. At the same time, there is a historically high level of employment. Never before has there been such a high level of employment, and then we have more people of pre-age age. Then the question is: have fewer or more jobs been created under this government than under the Bondevik II government? It's a pretty straightforward calculation, and even if we take it that we've removed the stock discount. Business came to us and said we were going to get massive unemployment if we took it off, because there wouldn't be money to invest in businesses in the future. That's not true. The rhetoric from the Right around it to create and share is not correct. There are no examples in the real world where the rhetoric holds its mark. We have the highest level of employment despite a moderate to high level of taxation in Norway. We're 10 pst. on the EU. The rhetorical right try, doesn't hold water. I think that's important to point out, because it's said so often. There are many who are walking around and indignantly believe that it was created more under Bondevik II than under this government. One might like to discuss whether it is right to create jobs in the public or private sector, but then the Right must mean it and be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1317	I'll be very short. It's just that today we have 800,000 people out of work, and that's the biggest challenge, no matter how you compare with previous government periods. The covered table was covered when Stoltenberg II started, but the number of people out of work is the starting point for well-being, and it's incredibly high. It is higher now than ever before, and that is the challenge for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1322	It surprises me a little when the Right says that there are «800,000 people out of work». What the right is doing is counting with everyone who's on disability benefits, and everyone who has sick pay, and then counting with everyone who's on social welfare, as well. In fact, very many of those who receive social assistance have other benefits as well. The number is wrong, and I think that right shouldn't be used on such an occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1327	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1404]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1343	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1361	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1379	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1397	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1413	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the entry from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1424	Norway has one of the world’s best health services, not least thanks to thousands of dedicated and competent employees who each day solve complex challenges and provide care to people in the deepest crisis and distress, and necessary assistance, so that everyday life goes around too many. But there are still major challenges and some very worrying developments. The health service in 2010 has been characterised by many scandals related to a lack of quality work and patient safety. Waiting lists have been manipulated, lists have been deleted, patients have not been notified, and patients have been operated on in hospitals that should not have carried out these types of operations. Based on an international study, there is reason to believe that as many as five–six patients die daily as a result of mistakes and unfortunate events in our healthcare system. 41 suffers permanent damage. About half of these deaths could have been avoided with better systems and more focus on quality from management. This has been a main thing for the Right over many years. We now experience that this matter has finally received more attention in the health policy debate. It is not least because the relatives now have engaged and stood up with their stories. It is because of the families Lie and Bistrup, who decided to work for others not to experience what they experienced, namely to lose their child because of health problems. This has already had political consequences. The Minister for Health has put in place a more rapid testing system. As a result of the High Representative’s proposal for better legal certainty for patients and relatives, the Minister of Health has set up a selection to work on a proposal for legislative changes — with a view to improving legal certainty for relatives and patients. Those reading the year’s budget proposal and setting will find that quality and patient safety are more addressed than before. But there's still a long way to go. The work on patient safety and quality is about both systems and management. In our healthcare system today, this responsibility is far too much left to the individual doctor and nurse and their professionalism. It's going pretty well, thanks to very good professionals. But it's human to do wrong, and it's also true that people who work in health care leave relationships different from the patient's best management. Therefore, there is a need for systems that capture errors and a top management that prioritize work on them. I believe that a significant part of the failure is due to the fact that both management and health ministers have been too unilaterally engaged in managing the economy in recent years and too little dedicated to ensuring the content of services. Unfortunately, this also marks the year's budget position. In the case of economics, it says: «The regional health establishments report monthly to the Ministry on performance, liquidity, activity and crew.» But about patient safety and quality, it says: ‘Regional health establishments should have a continuous follow-up to the follow-up of regional guidelines for functional distribution, for example in cancer surgery. Furthermore, regional health establishments should have systems to ensure that national professional guidance is used in the service.’;» It is easy to understand how different the government places emphasis on financial management in relation to quality management – clear requirements and monthly reporting on economics and decent calls and ‘should’ formulations in terms of quality. If we are to succeed in improving quality and enhancing patient safety, the Minister of Health must spend as much time following the quality management of businesses as economic management. Boards must be equally concerned with the health oversight reports as with the financial reports, and managers must provide feedback on the quality work of the departments as often as on financial management. In addition, we need to make our health care a more learning organization. Health surveillance reports on others must be used to improve their own activities. It is also necessary to establish a health services accident commission. Health services must learn to listen to patients and relatives. They have often given notice before it has really gone wrong, but they have not been heard. Right will ensure that users receive a better quality welfare offer. In that case, we will need a number of competent professionals first and foremost. It is not enough with the government's counter-and-between policy. Employees in municipalities are to care for the elderly with major health problems and for young people with complex needs. Sick-home parents have on average six to seven active disease diagnoses and need qualified health care. Local authorities are becoming increasingly responsible for the provision of services to disabled people, mentally ill people and others. About 30 pst. of the employees of the municipal care service are unskilled. They're making a formidable effort, but we need more qualified health professionals to give users good help. With the Interaction Reform, they are expected to take even more responsibility for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. In that case, we will need more nurses, more doctors and other educational groups in the municipal health and care sector. If the municipality is to be an attractive job for nurses, physiotherapists and others, they must experience the municipality as a professionally stimulating job. The right has been committed to proposing to increase the commitment to quality and competence measures in the municipal care service. This shall ensure better opportunities for continuing training and professional development. This will enhance the quality of the services offered to users and allow employees to develop professionally. This will make it easier to recruit professionals. Increased opportunities for research in the care sector will ensure better assistance for users and at the same time make the sector more attractive to employees. For the right, this is where the challenges of the cooperation reform lie, not in new and complex funding systems. It's people who are supposed to interact, not systems. Many older people are in a sick home queue because there are too few places in the municipalities. On the right, municipalities will be better able to build more places in hospitals and nursing homes. The right proposes to introduce the same good loan scheme for the construction of nursing homes as we have for schools and sports buildings. Municipalities shall receive interest-free loans for five years in addition to government grants. The right will allow municipalities to cooperate with private individuals on the construction of several places in hospitals and nursing homes, as we cooperated to ensure full child care coverage. The government has set foot for this and believes that even cooperation with housing construction teams is unacceptable. Right-wing feel that collaboration with private people will provide more opportunities for the elderly, which is a strength for the community, not a threat. Those who rely on public assistance often experience a vulnerable and powerless situation. Right Inge Wages once said: The worst thing you can do to a human being is take away that responsibility and justify it with care. Many fear that strangers will help them with personal care. Those in need of help must have more influence over their own everyday lives. Then we need a variety of offers, not a care monopoly. Everyone should be given good services funded by the public, but in general, private services can be provided. A diversity of private and public offerings gives users greater freedom of choice and thus influence their own lives. Although a few are too sick to choose, there are many users and relatives who can actually assess what is best for themselves and their closest. 277 416 patients are waiting for treatment 2. tertiary 2010. That's about. 77 000 more than those in line 1st tertiary 2006. This is a result of government policy, not a result of chance. From 2001 to 2006, under the civil government, the hospital queue was reduced by 70,000 patients. Under the civil government there were patients' health services, under the red-green government there have been patients of the health system. If the hospitals did not treat the patients quickly enough under the civil government, they could risk finding another offer. Today, patients have to wait for an unclear deadline to be broken if the quota for treatment in others has been exhausted. Public hospitals will and will be responsible for the vast majority of patient care. But if they own the patients, quickly means taking care of their own business slowly, but certainly more than optimal organization to ensure patients receive prompt treatment. This negative development is reinforced by the fact that the government has mobile and unclear waiting lists targets. This is not the hokuspocus – the results speak for themselves. A unanimous committee is now in favour of a national health plan becoming an operational tool for priorities and political governance. This proposal stood on the Right and the Advance Party alone as late as spring 2009. We are curious whether the government is actually following this in connection with Stortingen's treatment of the health plan in 2011. Yesterday’s demonstration of local hospitals clearly shows that health services are not only a subject and bureaucracy, but also a policy to the greatest extent. I am addressing the proposals on which the Right is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1484	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1489	The right has earmarked 330 million in its alternative budget. kr of the budgets of regional health establishments for the purchase of diagnostics and treatment of private operators. In North Norway, private treatment actors are quite small. As you know, it's a little bit more attractive to establish yourself commercially where there's a lot of people living in a small geographical area. So that means, for example, According to the Right's alternative budget, Health Nord must take a sum of money and send it to private providers in the East instead of using the same sum to build up and strengthen the public offer in the North, where people in North Norway live. Does the Right believe that this is a wise policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1498	Yes, I am convinced – very briefly – that if the Right Health Policy had been introduced, private would also find it attractive to establish themselves in the area of Health North. There are several areas in which we experience health, for example: in the area of rehabilitation, that the few private institutions actually located in Health Nord are forced by this government to offer good rehabilitation services to vulnerable patient groups. One makes a marginal offer that is very important. In reality, these patients are forced either to make a poorer offer or to do what the Tove Karoline Knutsen representative is dedicated to, namely to travel to other parts of the country to get an offer – instead of getting a good offer locally, which this government is providing for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1505	Privatisation, increased competition — even in health policy, it is an important part of the Right’s policy. The right has run Oslo in conjunction with the Progress Party since 2003, and the experience is, as we can read, 430 fewer hospitals, the costs of operating the nursing homes have increased dramatically, no one has an overview of how many elderly people need help, the evening post can tell that the number of complaints from the elderly has doubled in one year, and I have seen that the stopwatch has been the guide for the home services in Oslo. So my question to Höie is: What has the Right learned from the experience of care policy in the Municipality of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1514	The presentation of the offer to the elderly in Oslo that Hansen came with here does not match reality – neither as it is felt by the elderly in Oslo, nor as it actually is. Contrary to e.g. the red-green town of Trondheim can older people in Oslo choose who will come home to them and do the home-based services. This means that the elderly in Oslo are much more satisfied with the services. Not least, many people express the fact that they are allowed to choose and, if they are dissatisfied, choose away, making them more satisfied with the services. One also sees that Oslo has a good offer, even though Oslo has not come far enough to expand the offer. Therefore, they would also be pleased that the Right's budget had been adopted today, so that they had got more money to expand more hospitals and more care places.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1521	In the Right and Progress Party-led Bergen, they have put out both home help and home care. My question is what choice is for the Right, when it is that the private providers in home care cannot offer at night. It says the old people – those who need home care – get that if they need help at night, they have to resort to the public service. Is it not a problem for the Right that the weakest, the sickest, do not have a choice, that they must resort to the public service, which, in our opinion, must be given priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1528	This was a very strange question. Now the representative Toppe makes it as if it is a bad offer to get a public offer at night, while the central party and the red-green answer is that we are going to have a public offer 24 hours a day. In Bergen, the right has made it possible to choose offers during the day, especially in the case of home-based services. It's a good, an advantage and a development of offers. And then it's not that you have to thank for a public offer at night – a public offer at night is probably as good in Bergen as in any other city, not least in the cities run by the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1539	Health and care have the highest priority in the State budget for 2011. After the budget was presented, the government presented a new, reinforced effort in the care of the elderly. The financial situation and this attitude of the Health and Welfare Committee further increase efforts towards the elderly — in particular the dents and their relatives. This also shows that many have been consulted in connection with the budgetary hearings in our committee. The hospital economy is strengthened by 970 million. kr. In outpatient settings, the percentage increase is 4.5 pst. The waiting times for diagnosis and treatment must be reduced. Therefore, the X-ray effort is increased by 44 million. kr. Compared with 2005, next year we'll spend 9.1 billion. kr more for patient treatment. The follow-up of the Ministry of Health and Health to health enterprises is intensified. Time-limit infringements are unacceptable offences. Special attention will be paid to outpatient treatment. New investment loans to regional health enterprises amount to 446 million. kr next year, and we will start with a new Eastfold hospital. Increased appropriations for the cooperation reform and the escalation plan for the drug field are well received – with increases of 200 million, respectively. NOK 100 million. kr. In the field of mental health, there is room for 110 new psychologists in municipalities. And in the rehabilitation field, in 2011, regional health businesses are charged with purchases from private individuals of at least the same level as this year. Everyone has the right to a decent old age and the right to a safe provision of care. Fortunately, most people also receive good services from good and committed employees. But unfortunately, we see some examples of people who don't get the help they should have had. We can't have it that way. Everyone has the right to safe and dignified care. That is why we have promised full coverage of nursing homes or day-care homes by the end of 2015, and we are increasing government grants significantly, by NOK 230 000 per unit. This means, for example: that a municipality that builds 30 hospitals will receive a State grant of almost 27 million. kr with adjustment of the fare. Municipalities that have already received a grant commitment shall not come out poorly, seafaringly. Therefore, the changes that occur here are applied retrospectively. In total, the state will contribute over 9 billion. kr for construction during the planning period. The municipalities also receive an extra billion in free income – and we call it an older billion, because it is primarily in the care of the elderly that an extra roof is needed. The Prime Minister recently – here in the Questionnaire – stressed that there will be several billion new municipalities in the years to come. This with one billion extra says otherwise an overall committee is positive. That was how far we came when we agreed to agree when it came to the choice of superlative. In the Workers' Party we have just done a survey that shows that over 70 pst. by our rapporteurs, we agree that the free resources will help to strengthen fire safety. I think it promises well. Others have had to spend the money to correct the local economy. Some of these municipalities I also know are municipalities that have already given priority to the care sector. Society shall provide the assistance you need on the day you need it. But we cannot adopt or allow ourselves away from the fact that old age can bring great changes in life. Fortunately, most elderly people live good lives with their neighbors, not least because of a great effort by the families of seamen and other volunteers. But those who experience solitude, and are no longer as mobile as they once were, must also be able to participate and cultural experiences and thereby increase the quality of life. That is why the cultural walking stick is an important contribution. That is why we also want – and there is an overall committee behind – to legislate day-care centres in all municipalities by 2015. We're launching a worth 52 million prize package. Dr, which makes many good contributions to better care for the elderly — especially because most of the measures take place under the direction of, or in partnership with, voluntary forces. About 30 million. kr is offered to demente and their relatives, where the parent schools constitute the largest investment. Many volunteers do a lot of work every day to help those who feel outside of society, live in isolation or need assistance to get to what many of us take for granted. Therefore, we provide extra support for the Red Cross Visiting Service, the Valdighetszente at Bergen Røde Kor's Hospital, preventive home visits in the elderly, extension of the Hearing Aid Scheme, relief treatment in the municipalities and the inspiring Foundation Livsglede for the Elderly. They also have the motto: "Everyone will live life out." We could not in a way sum up our ambitions for care for the elderly better than to use just those words. It is the state of health which shall determine which offer is made, not the place of residence, the economy or the background. Everyone has the right to access hospital services in the country. The most important thing in the future will be to prevent more and repair less. Our prescription in that context is as a sure believer: the cooperation reform. The treatment people need regularly, they should get as close as possible to where they live. Advanced treatment people rarely need — preferably never — in the event of a serious illness, in top specialised hospitals. We in the Workers' Party are responsible for a strong public health system. Nevertheless, there is widespread use of private health services in Norway. But we don't want to build public health to give room to a larger private market, as the right-hand side is concerned about. It is more important that public health services maintain a high level of treatment, ensure sound resource use, have high quality and, in particular, good patient safety. The waiting time has to go down, but neither the tax-free nor the private health market is the answer. Whether the service is public or private, the bill is to be paid, but in the case of public services, we will at least release extra expenses for someone to make money – have profit. The vast majority of those in need of hospitalization do not wait a single day. That's because 70 pst. hospitalisation is hospitalised for acute treatment, and immediate help is provided. It is true that more people are waiting now than under the Bondevik administration, but it is definitely also part of the story that over 90 000 more people are now being treated in Norwegian hospitals. Medical and technological developments allow us to treat more people. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have proposed a large increase in the use of private health and care services in their alternative budgets. This considers the right-hand side to be the best solution to the challenges facing increasing health and care needs in the future. However, other countries that have tried such solutions show that it does not at all provide the health or economic benefits with which they argued. In Denmark, citizens have privatised on a large scale for several years. The system there creates great differences between people. It is unsolvable and costs taxpayers expensive in many ways. Several in Denmark now call for warnings that patients are being overtreated in private hospitals and that the use of private actors is out of control. Denmark's blue politicians have led the country onto a dangerous road, and the queues have not narrowed at all. We don't want it like this in Norway. There was a powerful demonstration out here yesterday in support of local hospitals and, in particular, the emergency and food supply. We clearly say that local hospitals are important health providers and are to be maintained, but it is important to organise the hospital service to provide the best possible treatment. This means that some local hospitals may have changes in their tasks, perhaps especially related to chroniclers, of whom there are more, and older people. In the case of food supply, the keywords are proximity, safety and quality. The Minister of Health and Health is now going through the regional food plans that the Stortinget has asked them to draw up. I know that the Council of State is closely monitoring what is planned to be implemented in the case of emergency services, and is assessing whether there is a basis for making changes on her part. The tendering procedures of regional health companies have also created a lot of commitment and, I would add, concern, because losing tenders has a significant impact. I want to repeat what I said in the financial debate: it is quite new to bid in the health sector, and then I refuse to believe that it is still not a potential for improvement, and that there may also be misassessments. In this case, it is important to correct rapidly, so that the necessary patient services are not damaged. This cannot be strongly emphasised with regard to the current review procedure. Health undertakings must be conscious of their responsibilities of care and, not least, take that into account in particular as regards immediate assistance and rights waivers. In politics, we are constantly making small and big choices. The struggle for social orientation is constantly standing. The Norwegian model is about solving the big problems together. It's not possible to dump the common fund for tens of billions. Tax laws mean welfare cuts and create greater differences between people. Now the Right wants less differences between people, obviously, while they continue like their old self. They are trying our rhetoric at the same time as they are pursuing the policy of the Progress Party in many areas. The big goal of achieving power and tax cuts is to control the country arm in arm with the Progress Party. Solidarity and equal opportunities are important to us. We spend the money on the big tasks, not least in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1595	You have to listen to self-crust, because it comes from the heart, it's called. In his contribution, the representative Hagebakken pointed out a dignity package of about 52 million. kr, which is the money that red-green health policy-makers have been allowed to dispose of in this budgetary procedure. In addition, he pointed to the so-called older billion. Hagebakken has previously been rapporteur in Gjøvik, and if we break down these figures, Gjøvik will receive NOK 346,000 more for the operation of the care of the elderly. It pays a nurse for eight months, or money to operate a nursing home for seven months. Gjøvik has 55 people waiting at the hospital, and on a scale from one to six, the municipality scores 3.2 for user satisfaction in care and care. Do the Hagebakken really dare to see the elderly in Gjøvik in their eyes and say that the red-green bet will now provide a worthy elderly care in Gjøvik and in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1604	Yes. Then, this was an incredibly strange form of mathematical representation. That's how Gjøvik actually gets more than five million. kr of that billion. If the representative Gåsvatn now shakes his head, I have to say that exactly when it comes to answering this question, I consider myself to be at least as competent, because I know that the number is above 5 million. kr. If you calculate from the 52-million-dollar dignity package. kr, you may get such a number, but it is distributed to non-governmental organisations. It was an incomprehensible question. But we are offensively paying attention to the care of the elderly, which is obvious. And we don't start emptying the $10 billion common deposit box, so we actually have the money that's needed. That's why we can at least see people in their eyes both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1613	Then, as self-appointed competent, the representative Hagebakken knows that it is well documented both from SINTEF, from the Health Authority and Health South-East that the offer of rehabilitation is very poor. In Hagebakken's own county, Oppland, the rehabilitation institutions Klöverhagen, Sofienberg and Fron have been laid down. If the Silver Shot Mountain is now being laid down, all the rehabilitation institutions in the Gudbrand valley are gone. It affects 14 municipalities. It's just Skogli at Lillehammer again, which has also had a significant decrease in its activity. In addition, more people are at risk of loss or reduced activity — Tonsåsen, Steffensrud and Paulsrud. Of these seven, five are family-owned institutions. These have provided quality offers and contributed to diversity, freedom of choice and to women’s jobs for generations. Why is the Hage Hill quiet and watching the rehabilitation and training provision in Uppland rage and many good offers to the population disappear and important women's workplaces disappear?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1622	I'm not sitting passively in any way. I have received many enquiries and have had discussions with those who are being affected here. I encourage everyone to complain, because I am concerned that we get a proper quality assurance of these processes, as this represents important offers to different patient groups. As I said, next fiscal year we want to strengthen the rehabilitation institutions, or at least to buy services at the same level as in the current year. As I also said here at the outset, we are very concerned that important patient services are not being lost, but if they are being replaced by others, it is incredibly important that these are quality assurance processes where everything has gone right. It is new to do with this in the health sector. Therefore, there may have been errors here, and then it is very important that it is corrected in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1629	During the budget debate last year, we discussed changes in outpatient physiotherapy services. There is treatment after surgery, and there is not least treatment in the pool for different groups. The representative Hagebakken tried to calm me down a bit violently by saying that with the mission papers from the Council of State, this would be all right, and that these therapy pools would probably survive. So what happened? Well, there's been some going on like before, many have been closed, and some are going to be liquidated or get heavily reduced in 2011. My question is, What does the Workers' Party think you should do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1640	It's true, as I said, that I have confidence that health care companies will be busy rigging up good patient offers. Then I have also registered what has happened. The starting point is that we do not grant less money for this purpose. That's still 43 million. kr, but the money is distributed in another way, and I have to say, in a more fair way than before. But we see that it has had some consequences. Where we have had such offers, some have been lost as a result of having received less money, because they have had more than they would actually have had in the past, if you look at it in terms of justice. So I'm still busy following what's happening here, because for some patients, this is probably an important and good offer. We know that physiotherapists, among others. Also involved, and if you work in teams with others, you are also included in the DRG funding for regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1647	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1650	A week and a half ago, we had the finance debate in this room. It was a bit of a special experience. The government parties said almost nothing about their own policies, but we were told a lot about the policies of the Progress Party, a lot about the Right Policy, and we heard how great everything worked under the Red-Green regime. I hope this debate gets a little better. I didn't start with politics to tell you about the successful ones among us. I am occupied with those who labor, by those who fall outside, and by those who need the little extra to create their good life. Policy is about correcting bias and giving everyone the opportunity to succeed. The way that is long and will take an extra long time if those who actually decide will not admit that errors and defects exist. Five years of red-green government has given us great differences in society and made it even more difficult for some to get help. The number of poor children in Norway has tripled. Psychiatry is being built up. The number of drug users in treatment queues is increasing. In addition, we have an infinitely long treatment queue that has increased every year. This has resulted in a two-part Health Norway. More and more people are resigning and buying out of the treatment queue, and more and more people are buying private health insurance because they have started to lose faith that the help will come on the day they really need it. The question is: is the government satisfied with its health policy? In that case, it means that it's a wild policy to have a two-part Health Norway. Otherwise, government health policy has failed. There would have been a clarification about this. This year, too, there is no attempt to reduce sick leave with the instruments that are known to work. Proper treatment at the right time should still not be used as an instrument. People are still going to spend months paying sick pay while they're waiting for an investigation or an operation. Free capacity shall remain exactly that, free. Rehabilitation is often essential for people to return to work after illness or injury. Rehabilitation is often crucial for people who live with a chronic disease compared to being able to work. Nevertheless, not all of this is offered. Rehabilitation sites are being laid down, waiting lists are increasing. The hot water pool disappears, and fewer people get treatment trips to warmer areas. More than 2 billion. kr extra authorises the Progress Party in its alternative budget to reduce the health queue and to stop the reduction in hot water pool, physiotherapy and treatment trips. A lot of good things can be achieved by living in Norway, but it takes a little bit of luck, a little howl and screaming and a little fat wallet if you're going to get in the way of these goods. This year, too, the Progress Party has given a very high priority to health and care. Health and care are important elements to give most people a safe and healthy life. Good health provides well-being. The progress party has given a high priority to health and care because we believe that now is the turn of the elderly. We have prioritised health and care highly because it provides savings in sick pay, redundancy benefits and disability benefits. We have prioritised this highly because we want to fight against the developments we've seen in recent years, namely, a two-part healthcare system that prioritises them with money and those who are able to scream loudly. The Progress Party's alternative budget would be treated to more than 50,000 more people than the government's budget. Too many rehabilitation sites have disappeared in the last few, three years. This trend will be reversed by the Progress Party before it is too late, and we therefore allocate 180 million. extra kr for rehabilitation. There's the government talking about the Progress Party. The tranquillity stands on the ground resting. Apart from additional appropriations for after-sales protection in municipalities, the queue of treatment intensively continues to increase with this budget. But a little praise is to be given to the government to strengthen the protection of the municipalities. This has been a neglected area for too long and has made us have not had a care for the cattle that is connected. Better back protection can give more opportunities to succeed. That's why it's a little bit of a shame that the amount is so low. When you divide 70 million. kr on all the municipalities in the country, it just gets too little per municipality. The advance party strengthens the work by a further 336 million. kr in its alternative budget. Resource-requiring services are another group that got swept away by the government last year and forward. It was a conversion that had very unfortunate consequences both for the municipalities and the user. The government promised to reverse the contraction if it had adverse consequences. From all over the country, we have been notified of a cut in the service offer due to the government's tightening of the scheme, without the government having reversed its tightening as promised. The progress party has taken the municipalities' signals seriously and granted 700 million. kr extra to the resource-intensive services. Once again, parental care has been raised on the political agenda. But it helps too little. Year in and year out, the government has promised a safe and dignified care for the elderly, without enabling the municipalities to follow the promises. The majority doubt a system that they know is not working, and the scandals are waiting. The elderly feel that they are a burden, and feel that they are failing and less valuable. The progress party once again invites the Stortinget to a good deal like the one we carried out for kindergartens. For the time being, the Progress Party is all alone in wanting to repeat the kindergarten success. In the meantime, the Progress Party makes the best of the situation and doubles the investment grant for the construction of nursing homes and expands the number by 1000 places in its alternative budget. The rate of expansion goes with mouse chalk, and we get more and more in deficit for every year that goes. But regardless of the number of hospitals: the municipalities are clear that it is operating these places that are the biggest challenge. The Progress Party therefore has an additional budget of 2 billion. kr in its alternative budget, which has been earmarked for care for the elderly. The total increase in elderly care alone thus amounts to a total of 3.5 billion. kr. But then a little bit back to the differences in health care. Recently, we were able to follow a young mother on methadone and her pregnancy. It was shocking to witness that these women are not treated as other mothers because they are in the LAR. All emerging mothers shall be met with respect, support and information. But LAR women don't get real information. They are not met with respect, simply by the fact that they are not being heard, and they are not getting real support for their choices, contrary to what a total collapse has said about this particular group of mothers. The film revealed that she wanted to step down on methadone, but was met with the opposite. The doctor increased her dose. So these women don't get real information about what methadone does to their unborn children, and they don't get any support in the choices they want to make. For me, such discrimination is unacceptable and affects not only women, but most of all it affects the unborn child. The Progress Party strengthens its efforts for drug users by 336 million. kr in its budget. This appropriation is intended to cover increased treatment, increased after-care, housing grants and grants to volunteers working in the field of drug care and drug prevention. The government has a belief that the public can solve everything for everyone. The Progress Party believes that the public, in cooperation with the private and the volunteers, can solve any task and challenge that may arise. Especially important is the work that thousands of thousands put into volunteer work every day. If all these voluntary strikes had stopped at the same time, Norway had simply stopped. The Progress Party therefore increases the allocation of voluntary work in its alternative budget by just over 200 million. kr. Being one of the few can put the city on incredibly demanding challenges. You almost have to be fresh to fight for help and follow-up. Unfortunately, we have more examples of this. Amalgam poisoning, eating disorders and ME are all diseases where it's almost impossible to be seen and heard. For years, several have been alone in the dark waiting for help and treatment. The knowledge seems weak, the learners fight, and those who have been affected by sickness and become healthy have become healthy in different ways, but still agree on one thing: they are not taken seriously, they are not heard. Increased knowledge and research based on findings made elsewhere in the world must be followed up. Fortunately, we don't hit so many, but it hits hard and brutally, and we need knowledge now. Too many people have sold everything they own and have, in their desperate search for a cure or medicine that can make them healthy. Amalgam poisoning is another such matter. A handful of women have devoted all their time to amalgam poisoning for years. But they've met adversity year in and year out. No one wants to take proper responsibility. There is an unparalleled documentation table, countless meetings and letters to health ministers who have come and gone, new promises and new samples have been dropped, but nothing is happening. How long can you run this extraction technique? How long can this group of people be overlooked? Also, eating disorders and youth that suck are signs that things are not quite as they should be, signs that are easy to see. There's no doubt, here's someone who's hurt the soul. However, treatment provision is low, at least a proper and effective treatment provision. Many could have been saved, and many think they could have avoided suffering for many years if proper help had been inserted earlier. The challenges lie ahead for us as actors in health policy. We're not experts on everything. We have to listen, and we have to learn. The question is whether we always do it, and many people think we don't. Illnesses and injuries that affect the few become grossly neglected. I really feel sorry for those who year in and year out try to hear for their tiny field, for their illness. Many will feel that they are forgotten this year too. Finally, a few words about mental health, which the Progress Party in its alternative budget strengthens by 100 million. kr. We're doing this because the mental health escalation plan didn't achieve all the goals that were set, and because it's now being cut across the country in what we actually did to build up. Psychiatric disorders affect a great many and can have serious consequences if not treated. Taking into account sick leave and disability, it turns out that there is a great deal to be recovered by providing good and proper psychiatric treatment at an early stage. Otherwise, we may experience mentally ill people walking around in the streets without root, or shutting themselves in behind closed doors. Both of these are equally bad. Confused and desperate, someone ends up taking his own life, and someone hurts others. With an additional allocation of 100 million. We could have avoided the cuts in the results we achieved, and the mentally ill had not come to closed doors. It gives as you know some short heat to pee in your pants. I am addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1714	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1719	I know that the representative Kjenaas Kjos – and she has demonstrated that again here today – has a real and strong commitment to those who are struggling with drug problems. I would like to thank you for the small compliment we received in terms of post-protection. One hundred million. kr think I'll come along well. It might be more later, too. Nobody knows what we're getting at. Then I am a little surprised that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos has a fight to reduce the taxes on tobacco and alcohol. We need a little bit more explanation. I don't quite see the logic of that commitment and the strange position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1726	I do not have personal counter-conceptions about increased taxes on tobacco and alcohol, but I have very little faith that it is related to drug abuse. It is not allowed to sell or use drugs. Nevertheless, there is an increasing problem. As far as tobacco taxes are concerned, it turns out that no matter how much you charge, people don't want to stop smoking because of the fee. I have been much more concerned that we should provide good information on the adverse effects of tobacco. And that works, because we see that the recent recruitment of tobacco in high school and in the growing population is much, much lower. It's not about taxes, it's about knowing now what the harmful effects of tobacco are. I'd like to continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1733	Kjönnaas Kjos said in his post that the Progress Party is occupied by those who are struggling. Yes, unfortunately, there are social health differences in Norway — a 12-year difference in life expectancy in Oslo depending on whether you live in the east or west. In a debate on health differences, the head of the Oslo FrP, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, said the following: ‘Is it the task of politicians to make people live longer, make people eat apples, make people eat carrots in school or vegetables for dinner or make people stop smoking etc.? Is this the task of politicians, or are most people responsible for their lives, if you have enough information about this? I would like to say that it is primarily the responsibility of the individual." My question to the representative of Kjønaas Kjos is whether this is representative of the policy of the Progress Party. Is it the individual's responsibility, or are we going to have a public policy to combat social differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1745	I believe it is the responsibility of the individual to take care of himself and to live healthy and well. I mean that, and I think everyone wants that for themselves. What politicians have to do is to facilitate the right choices. That's why we've been busy with healthy eating habits, like fruit and green in school -- maybe for all kids and not just some, as the government wants. We've wanted to facilitate physical activity by giving tax deductions for membership of sports associations. It's using carrots instead of whips, so it's natural to think rationally and think about their bodies. This applies to the whole population regardless of where you live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1752	The progress party seemed to show a great deal of care and interest for those who were tired, and those who fell outside. The representative, Mr Kjos, said in his statement: ‘Politics are about correcting bias’. I think it is obvious that as a single party, the Progress Party does not support a comment that ‘the main lines of the alcohol policy must be fixed with a focus on limiting access and consumption’. Alcohol consumption in Norway is increasing, and with the Progress Party's price-reduction policy, this will certainly increase further. My question is, is it therefore that the Progress Party in its alternative budget is committed to strengthening the rural environment by 300 million? kr, because there will be more drug users with the policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1759	I think it's a little strange when a joint committee, minus the Progress Party, first says that they want the policy being pursued to be maintained because it's so successful, while the next note says that the alcohol consumption in Norway has increased significantly in recent years – which has not happened elsewhere in Europe. Then there may be a reason to stop the policy that has been pursued, and to see why alcohol consumption has increased so much. Maybe that's the thing we're going to do differently. At least we want to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1764	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1767	The health budget for 2011 has increased by 4.9 billion. kr. It's an increase of 3.8 pst. Corrected for cost and price growth is the actual increase of 1 billion. kr. In addition, the health budget has been strengthened during landfill treatment by 58 million. kr. If we then add to the strengthening of the municipalities’ budget frameworks in the new age bracket and increase the grant for the construction of new places of nursing and nursing homes, we have a significant strengthening of the health and care budget in 2011. With these budgetary frameworks in 2011, Norway will be the world’s country, according to the United States, which spends the most money on health per capita. In the last ranking of countries in the world with the best health services, measured by the quality of the British Medical Journal in London in 2007, Norway was second place, after Sweden. Then I can add that the Health Directorate in a report in ours could tell that the health status of the population is very good – and never be so good. We are surviving more and more serious diseases, we are living longer, and infant mortality is falling. But despite this growth and this quality improvement in the health sector, it's an area where we haven't improved, where we're low compared to other countries it's natural to compare with, and it's that we have great health differences. It tells us that everyone hasn't been involved in this prosperity development. Background, education and the economy are very crucial for health. According to the Institute of Public Health, 42 000 deaths could have been avoided every year if everyone had had the same health as those with higher education. In this number there are 5,400 lung cancer deaths, 10,061 heart deaths, and 4,345 other cancers could have been avoided. These are of course theoretical models, but it says quite clearly how big the social health differences really are. I choose to focus on this because I think it's a very regrettable fact that the nation of Norway has it like that. We should be able to solve this much better with our resources. It really shouldn't have been like that in this country. We use more than other countries for the treatment of patients in hospitals, while we use less than other countries for prevention and early intervention. It is precisely outside the hospitals that efforts need to be directed to combat health inequalities. It's set at 140 million. kr on the year’s budget for public health work. It is actually a small sum in a large health budget – 0.1 pst. – but more will come when the cooperation reform is to be implemented. I think the goal should be at least 1 pst. So 1.3 billion. kr, the health budget should go to public health and measures to combat social health inequalities. We should set ourselves the goal of achieving that already in 2012. From 2010, the earmarked funds for mental health were integrated into the framework grant to municipalities. At the same time, the municipalities received 3.5 billion. kr. A significant escalation plan has been implemented, with an investment of 10 billion. kr, the operating frames have been increased by 6 billion. Dr, and more than twice as many were treated in psychiatry in 2009 than in 1998. It is therefore with great concern that we have to record that as many as 18 pst. the municipalities of the country report a cut in the appropriations for mental health, while growth is reported in the health sector in general. When we know that as many as one sixth — that is, 800,000 — of the population at all times have mental or drug problems, the answer is not cut in the budgets, but a strengthening of both quality and capacity in the years to come. Therefore, I would urge the Minister of Health to follow this area very closely and to consider the necessary measures if necessary to ensure that those in need receive it — and in due time. The same is true in the rake field. I am very happy that the escalation plan continues for two more years, and that the frames have increased by 100 million. kr. But too many people are in line for treatment. I am particularly concerned that so many young people are waiting for treatment. Here, too, the Minister of Health must be very clear to health businesses that deadlines cannot be accepted. In the Interaction Reform, it was established that the need for health professionals is strongly increasing. We need 134 000 new annual works by 2020. If we are to be able to recruit enough people for this sector, we must be able to offer attractive jobs. Therefore, I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees with SV that working conditions in the sector are of crucial importance. We work for less use of part-time and temporaryity. It's about knowing that you have a regular job, knowing when to work, and what salary you get. After four years of education is not part-time, 20 pst. or 30 pst. setting any option. In that opinion, the Committee decides that full-time and permanent posts should be normal. In order to achieve this, health businesses must be required to identify the extent and make concrete plans — and they must be required to implement the plans. I assume that health companies are clearly instructed on this, because the signals we get are based on the fact that developments are going in the opposite direction. The overall objectives of health policy are that everyone should have equal rights to equivalent healthcare regardless of the size of the wallet and wherever they live in the country. In order to achieve this objective, public health services need to be strengthened and expanded. Only if we do it, when we reach the goals and can secure the welfare state for the future. The right-hand side's policy in this area is a threat to this objective because they propose to expand the private health system at the expense of the public. The Progress Party clearly states in its budgetary comments: ‘to equalise private and public providers’. We know the consequences of extensive privatisation. The private takes the simple cases. The public is left with the resource-intensive patients. Private individuals do not have the same teaching responsibilities as public authorities and therefore often appear in many contexts to be more effective. Furthermore, when the public cannot compete on wages, the ideal world of the right will be the final impoverishment of the public health system. This will mean increasing differences and will mean centralisation of the health system at the expense of, among others. districts. That society doesn't want SV. Knowing that good health services are available, knowing that as a child approaches, qualified assistance is provided, and being sure that health services are available when accidents occur is a public health issue. Yesterday there was a nationwide demonstration outside the Storting in support of the local hospitals and the decentralised maternity care. The demonstration expressed significant concern that a number of local hospitals, maternity wards and maternity wards could be closed down or built up as a result of the planning processes currently taking place in regional health establishments. I understand those who demonstrated, very well, and I think they deserve honor because they so strongly end up in the local health system. One requirement of the demonstrators is that important changes in health services should be taken by politicians, by elected representatives and not by corporate directors. That's also SV's vision. If we look back a little bit in history, we can see that precisely because the development of the Norwegian health system has been governed by elected people, locally and centrally, not by the market, we have a world-class healthcare system, near where people live, with an offer to everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet. And so the health care system should also be governed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1801	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1804	Rehabilitation and rehabilitation are essential for the patients concerned, and it is profitable for society. The interaction reform states that it is an important field of activity, and Soria Moria II states that sufficient resources must be provided to enable all those in need to be given it. Despite this, this field is only satisfied with two-and-a-half-page mentions in the State budget, and so the government cuts in the offer even if 150 000 people are in line. Once again, we are witnessing a government that promises gold and green forests in celebrations, and does not deliver when it comes to concrete action. The question will be, When will the government start a escalation plan in this field? When could anyone who needs rehabilitation and rehabilitation expect it? And was it not that the representative Hansen promised that there would be earmarked funds for rehabilitation? Is there perhaps the resistance to private rehabilitation institutions that makes us look cut instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1812	Finally, there is no resistance to private rehabilitation institutions. They form a major and important part of the offer. As regards the issue of earmarked funds for rehabilitation, this will arise in the context of the implementation of the Cooperation Reform. And in the cooperation reform, rehabilitation is an essential part of the whole basis for providing a better offer near where people live and in the community health service. So priority must be given to rehabilitation. However, the concrete answers to how this is to be done come in the municipal proposal for spring and in the context of the treatment of the national health plan for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1819	The right fully shares what Mr Hansen says in his speech on the need to prioritize drugs and psychiatry. Not only do the Norwegian health services have social differences, they also have differences depending on the disease they suffer. For example, patients with psychiatric disorders and arthropoiesis remain lower in priority than other patients. Therefore, I wonder why the government parties do not have the opposition to the objectives of 2011 that the reduction in waiting time must be the strongest in the field of mental health protection for children and young people and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment, and why are the government parties not included in the note and the proposal that the growth of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment should be separately higher than the growth of somatic in all health establishments, i.e. Ansgar Gabrielsen’s golden rule? Why are the government parties against this now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1824	The government parties clearly say that the waiting times are going down in both rushes and psychiatry, and they are also going down. The statistics show it. Both the health minister’s and government’s demands on health businesses will be to give priority to drugs and psychiatry in the implementation of the budget, which has a net growth of about 1 billion. kr. So, of these means, drugs and psychiatry should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1829	I fully agree with Mr Hansen's statement that health services should be governed politically. During these days, during the final phase of the appeal procedure, some have been informed, not later than Friday last week, that the rejection of tenders for further operations, including: in my own region. My question is whether SV thinks it is okay that more non-profit drug institutions now have to close the doors precisely because they do not get new contracts, despite the fact that we have between 3000 and 4000 drug addicts in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1836	I agree with the concern expressed here about the consequences of the tendering rounds that have now been. But we are in a situation where, on the one hand, there is a desire to ensure qualitatively good treatment institutions. On the other hand, health businesses must define needs – concrete needs – and we are committed to a purchasing system. And then we have discussions about how we can solve this in the best possible way. There is now appeal in all health businesses. Some are done, some aren't, and it's hard to go in and do something concrete when you're in the process you're in. But this is a challenge that we have to jointly solve in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1843	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1846	The provision of health and care is an important element of a good society. Norway currently has one of the world’s most developed healthcare services. The total budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare for 2011 is approximately 133 billion. kr. It's a lot of money. It gives room for important bets. It gives room for increased growth and multiple patient treatments in hospitals. It provides room for several new long-term investments in hospital buildings. There is room for more resources for the Interaction Reform, for stronger efforts for care, an urgent increase to the drug field, and several other smaller but important initiatives. We can do this because we have a common priority over tax cuts. For us, it is an overarching goal for policy to reduce the economic differences in the population. A society with the least possible differences provides better health for its population. Social conditions such as work, income and networks are of great importance to the public. Economic and social security is one of the most fundamental concerns of good health and equal distribution of health. People in Norway are better today than ever. Today, 60- and 70-year-olds have a completely different health situation and life expectancy than just ten years ago. But the good health of the population is not evenly distributed. There are still marked differences in health and life expectancy between groups in society. This is our biggest health policy challenge. In order to cushion social health inequalities, we need to smooth out differences in living conditions. This requires efforts in several sectors of society. The basis for good prevention is primarily laid outside the health services. Municipalities are particularly important in this work. At all levels, the impact of policies in different sectors on public health needs to be clarified. Listening to draft new public health law is now being implemented. The bill targets municipalities and municipalities in particular. It shall facilitate more effective and targeted public health work, and public health shall be highlighted as a local and regional policy theme. We look forward to this law being signed, and believe it will mean a change for better and clearer public health work for years to come. Life - style diseases are referred to by many as the new disease epidemic in Norway. Risk factors such as tobacco, alcohol, obesity and physical inactivity affect individually or collectively the occurrence of public diseases such as heart and car diseases, chronic lung disease, diabetes and cancer. But the positive thing is that a large part of these can be prevented. Measures to reduce the use of tobacco and alcohol, to increase physical activity, to improve diet and to improve the health of the sun are all central to a different development. In this work, the Centre believes that we must dry and dare to take strong and effective structural measures. This means that through legislation, economic instruments such as prices and fees and physical availability and design, we can make the healthy choices easier and the unhealthy choices more difficult. It will be to build walking and cycling roads to stimulate walking or cycling instead of using a car, it will be to increase taxes on tobacco and alcohol, as the government proposes for next year's budget. Because there is a clear and documented link between the total consumption of alcohol and health and social harm, disease and accidents. Increased taxes on alcohol and tobacco contribute to higher prices and lower consumption. I think it is alarming that there is no cross-political agreement on this measure. It is worrying that Norway is the nation after Australia with the highest incidence of skin cancer. I am pleased with the plural comment on this in the setting, where the government party together with the Christian People's Party indicates that several trade unions have called for more stringent requirements for the use of solarium. It is also worrying that youth in Norway is poorer at eating fruit and vegetables than young people in countries such as the Czech Republic and Poland. Many call it a defeat and point out that Norway should be on top of the standard of living we have in this country. It has been shown that between 10 and 60 pst. patients in hospitals and residents in hospitals are undernourished. Since 2008, health professionals have been asked to focus on nutrition in the overall supply of specialist services. It is important to strengthen the nutritional competence of municipal health and care provision. It is therefore gratifying that the number of clinical nutrition physiologists from the autumn of 2011 will increase from 25 to 45. It is also positive that the government announces that one has started work on a new graduated sugar levy and that Norway is renting a European network to reduce the marketing of unhealthy food and drink to children and young people. Although health is largely determined by factors outside the health sector, very important public health work is taking place in the health service. Health and school attendance play a central role in public health work. It is important that the capacity of the service becomes secure, so that it can function as a real low threshold supply. The health station and the dormitory service is a municipal responsibility. In addition, the draft budget includes an increase in ear-marked state resources to strengthen the school health services in municipalities with social health differences. It's an important innovation. This increase has led to a fundamental shift in health policy. The interaction reform was a policy reform and has a different focus and a different approach to health policy. The increase in the health budget is now due mainly to the municipalities and to the strengthening of the municipal health service. Several tasks shall be transferred to the municipalities and responsibility shall be transferred from the specialist services to the municipal health services. More emphasis shall be placed on prevention and less on repair. This is an essential development of the health sector, and there is a broad political agreement on the need for this conversion. In line with the government platform, one in the budget suggests that hospitals should be strengthened so that more patients can receive treatment. Delays will be required to be reduced. Work on quality and patient safety should be strengthened. A total of 1 billion will be proposed. kr more for operations compared to the 2010 budget. The national health and care plan was sent to the hearing in October and the Stortinget will deal with the plan before the summer. According to the Government Platform, this plan shall be developed into an operational hub for priorities within the comprehensive health and care services. The plan shall ensure good political governance by being a strategic health management document. In the fall, there have been very many disturbances in many places in the country due to business-driven change processes in the hospital supply. It is important to state that according to the Medical Association, local healthcare providers currently make up a space between 60 and 75 pst. of all sicker skin replacements. Local hospitals are in many ways the backbone of our hospital system. It is important that local hospitals also in the future be equipped to deal with the most common diseases and injuries and to stabilise patients to be passed on. The contents of the local hospital must be known to people and be as similar as possible throughout the country. It's natural that some specialized functions are centralised into larger units. But then there must also be a decentralisation of other tasks. Major changes must be firmly politically anchored and must be made through broad democratic processes before a decision is taken. It is an overarching objective of government health policy that everyone should ensure the most equivalent provision of health services irrespective of diagnosis, housing, personal economy, gender, ethnic background and individual living conditions. This budget facilitates an urgent strengthening of the health and care services in the municipalities. This is a service that has been in strong development for the last 20 years. More and more complex treatment is being provided in municipal services, and these developments should continue with the Cooperation Reform. According to a recent report from SINTEF health research, Norway is now placing more emphasis on care services for older people than any other country in Europe. The availability of institutional facilities is as good or better than in other Nordic countries. Only the Danes surpass us when it comes to the provision of services. The centre party is particularly concerned that, in order to meet future health challenges in the care of the elderly, we need to make more provision for older people to live longer in their own home, in their own community. Focus must be shifted from large institutions to their own housing, home and community. Therefore, it is very good that the government ensures a real growth in the municipal sector's total revenues in 2011 of 5.7 billion. kr. In addition, an additional billion will be made available in free income for 2010 and marked increases in support for the construction of health care facilities and housing facilities. Contrary to the opposition, the government party believes that what is fundamental to ensuring a good health supply to everyone is a strong public health service where the public in the essential own and operate hospitals, with private businesses, contract specialists and volunteer organizations as useful and wanted partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1880	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1883	I was for a moment afraid that the representative Toppe would not get into local hospital closures at all – or, as she herself chooses to call it, ‘business-driven change processes’. That actually means the exact same thing. We all experienced a "powerful demonstration" here yesterday, to use the Hage Hill's own expression. As you know, the Center Party is also the master of double communication, but there are limits to how long you can ride two horses at once without being accused. I have recently reported that Toppe wants both to change the business model, to get rid of regional health businesses, and – as she repeated in this article – a wide range of policy treatments, preferably in this room, before deciding on closures. My question will then be: Is it the Central Party representative Toppe who believes this, or is it the Central Party who believes this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1892	When it concerns the business model and local hospitals, I can answer questions. But I have to honestly admit that when it comes to riding two horses, at least the Progress Party is good at jumping off the horse in time, because the Progress Party was in favour of introducing the business model, when one took away the political governance of the hospital sector and left it to a leadership board. So it's almost that I don't want to answer the question. We are now in a government where the enterprise model is to be passed on, but as I said in the post, we are going to have a national health and care plan to ensure greater political governance of the important and significant changes in the hospital sector. That's what we're working for now, and the Center Party is busy that we're going to have the most decentralised and equal health supply in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1899	In yesterday's Newspaper, the representative Toppe, together with his party leader, takes a rough settlement with the local health policy that they themselves run. They believe that the government they themselves are part of, commits a breach of promises, and that their own management of the hospitals is flawed. The right supports the transfer of ownership of hospitals to the state, but we don't want to give regional health companies as much power as you have today. In 2009, the Right proposed to develop a more operational national health plan where the Stortinget would provide clear political leadership for the hospital structure. This was in opposition to the Center Party. It is the Centre Party that has ensured a majority of the policies that are now managed by health businesses. So it's the Center Party that has given health companies power in these cases. The Government, of which the Central Party is part, may at any time lower the foot of the changes currently proposed. My question to the representative Toppe and the Central Party is when to stop blaming others and rather take responsibility for the health policy that you are in charge of.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1907	I would first like to say that it is very nice that the representative Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad, my good political friend from Hordaland, comes here every December to have a line on me in the budget debate. We're very busy with local hospitals, both of them. I would like to say the same thing to the Right as to the Progress Party: they were also involved in the governance of the hospital policy that we have today, which I must be allowed to say that the Central Party is against. So who's to blame is that the control is the way it is, can at least be discussed. But we take responsibility for the political plurality, and we want to strengthen the enterprise model to give him a better political anchor. I believe that it is important for the citizens, who need to be more confident about the business model, and it is important for this room that we get a better political anchoring of significant, major health changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1914	I will continue on the same track – but the Christian People's Party is against it. I will do so in a slightly different way and ask the representative Toppe how she feels about the possibility that the proposal on the conversion of the local hospitals now being promoted is simply frozen and assessed in the context of the national health plan, as the Central Party has called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1919	I think this is a very interesting and important question. I can answer in this way that this is something that the government has to decide on. I have been aware that the Center Party's large-scale group has agreed to what was the main requirement of the demonstration yesterday. And so is the fact that the corporate law is clear that significant changes or changes that have social significance cannot be decided by the corporate governance alone. They do not have a mandate to do so. It shall be decided by the Business Meeting, which in practice means the Council of State. And then it's going to be up to them, as I said in the previous reply. I think this case is good for getting a greater political anchor, and that a waiting for these changes to the National Health and Care Plan is confirmed by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1929	I would like to begin by quoting from the book ‘Life and death — Health statistics for 150 years’ of 2007: ‘In 1960, about half of the 221 general hospitals, clinics and hospitals were private. Most private institutions were run by Catholic institutions or diaconi organisations, Red Cross or Norwegian Women’s Sanitation.’ [[...]] This is the tradition we're in. It was the organisations that built up our health services. That's the way it is today. Who has started health care for paperless migrants? Yes, it's the Church's City Mission and the Red Cross. These organisations work to influence the authorities to extend the rights and arrangements for a human health service for people without having to stay legally. The tradition must be continued. Basically, it's about political will to do it. New rules for the non-profit sector are needed to give institutions predictable and long-term conditions. We need the non-profit sector, which can complement and correct public health services. It is also possible, within today's rules, to provide non-profit institutions with a place in healthcare. Firstly, the exceptions to the ideal tendering rules must be applied. Secondly, the size of the tenders must be such that the available capacity is put into service. That's enough for everyone. We know that almost 4,000 addicts are in line. The Christian People's Party proposes 100 million in the alternative budget. to provide drug addicts with a treatment offer — and to save non-profit institutions that have not been agreed with regional health businesses. Older people must be guaranteed the right to due care. It means a nursing home place when you need it, the possibility of activity, getting out and getting relief treatment at the end of life. These were important elements of the agreement on a guarantee of dignity for the care of the elderly that the Christian People's Party concluded with the government parties and the Left in 2007. When the guarantee of dignity was sent at the hearing in June 2009, it was a central point that municipalities have to be compensated for the increased costs involved. The government has not followed up well enough that part of the consultation note and it is unfortunate when the guarantee of dignity is due to enter into force on 1 January 2011. The Christian People's Party proposes in its 2011 alternative budget a commitment to care for the elderly of about 1 billion. kr in order to better meet the guarantee of dignity. But we don't know if that's enough. We have also requested that the State take more care of the hospital bill. Among other things, we proposed this in the revised national budget this year. The construction is too slow. From 2008 to 2009, there were even 69 fewer sick homes, according to the SSB. There is therefore a need to stimulate further. This can be done by increasing the state share of the development of nursing homes and homes. Medical needs must determine whether elderly people should be given a sick home. But today the threshold seems to get a place to be too high. The State incentive grant for the construction of hospitalisation sites shall increase from 30 pst. to 40 pst. and for care homes from 20 pst. to 30 pst. That's good, and we look forward to the government's announced proposition on this. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party proposes to build 500 hospitals and nursing homes in addition to government proposals for 2011. It's going to be 2 500 places. We also want to increase the free income of the municipalities by 750 million. kr of the billion I mentioned instead. They must go freely to the municipalities so that they can improve the quality of care for the elderly, including: to more domestic staff, but also to the nursing homes. According to KS, the government's proposal to increase free income is not enough. It won't allow for any new bets, just to take away the increase in the number of nagging. Municipalities must be given financial freedom for new initiatives in the care of the elderly. There must be more day-to-day provision for living quarters. This is a neglected group. Only 7 pst. has such an offer today. Daily offers make sense in everyday life and also relieve the family. This may, in turn, put the need for institutional space at risk. Christian People's Party proposes 20 million. kr extra in its alternative budget for this purpose. To meet the challenges of the future in the care of the elderly, it is also essential to research more on dementia. We therefore propose to strengthen the Norwegian Research Council by 10 million. kr. Research efforts are not proportionate to the severity and extent of the disease. It causes great human suffering, both for the individual being affected and for the family. The consultation opinions of the National Association for Public Health show that the social costs of dementia are very high. Nearly 75 pst. of the residents of the nursing home have dementia. There is no cure for dementia today. We think there are huge gains to be made by being able to detect and treat dementia as early as possible. Central to the guarantee of dignity is the right to relief or life support in the final phase of life. With the construction of 150 municipal hospice sites this year, the need could be met after four years, as we have calculated. For the next year, 150 such places may actually be included in the construction of hospital and nursing homes. We hope that happens. We also want to stimulate the establishment of an outpatient team for relieving treatment and empowerment of all healthcare professionals with a total of 50 million. kr in our budget. The new reimbursement scheme for healthcare in other EEA countries to be implemented now from 1 January 2011 provides for the patient to pay all costs for the treatment himself and then require reimbursement from Helfo. It is important to me that we stress that the patient, as today, should be able to be sure that expenses are reimbursed when the doctor has requested treatment. Unfortunately, there is a concern among patients in the treatment settings. It is seen as unsafe and unsocial that patients have to pay for the treatment in advance. So we want the government to take a closer look at how this can be done. We refer to this in the attitude to the answers from the Ministry of Health and Health to questions about this. It is replied that Helfo cannot refuse if the conditions of popular fear are met. The Christian People's Party also presupposes that the treatment of approved institutions outside the EEA territory will continue to be fully reimbursed, as is the practice of today, and as both policy makers and users have perceived it to be. For those of us who remember last year's budget debate, it's a little sad to stand here and feel like you're repeating yourself. I've been into it earlier today, and we're not going to say that much about it. But this is about the conversion of funding to outpatient physiotherapy in hospitals. This has actually led to a reduced offer. Earlier this year, we have been promoting a proposal for a representative on rehabilitation, where we asked the government to take control and reverse the developments that we were about to see. We expect the Council of State and the Department to provide adequate access to the therapy pool. We expect no offers to be made without any other offer being established. This has been addressed by the Council of State itself in other contexts. We believe that the government should reverse the resolution of the pool used for rehabilitation today and reopen both the outpatient physiotherapy service and the therapy basins that have now been closed. Finally, we believe that input-driven funding reimbursement also for physiotherapy services can be the right solution now. Yes, we see almost no other solution, as the case has evolved. We are therefore in this position with the proposer to ask the government to assess the ISF reimbursement for physiotherapy services in the specialist healthcare service and that it does so in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1971	In the remarks to the budget of the Christian People's Party and in the text, the government is criticized for not following up the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left on this guarantee of dignity. I think the article is like this. What is a fact for next year's budget is that the framework for the municipal sector has increased by DKK 5.7 billion, and then it is further strengthened in the re-saltation by a billion. kr. The rates of assistance for the development of the care sector have increased from an average of 25 to 35 pst. with retroactive effect. The need-testing scheme in the House Bank has been suspended. These things will help to achieve the target of 12,000 new places by the end of 2015. Can the representative Laila Davøy confirm that these are measures that will now be implemented to achieve the objective of the guarantee of dignity, and is it the Christian People's Party's view that this has not been followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1978	Yeah, that's very good action. I can confirm that this will contribute to doing so that we can more easily achieve the objectives of the guarantee of dignity. But the problem is that the guarantee of dignity gives very strong new rights. The government has so far not done what you should do, namely calculate how much it would cost to fulfill the guarantee of dignity. Therefore, we are in the situation that as long as this is not determined, as long as we do not know about the costs, I cannot guarantee that the guarantee of dignity will be the guarantee it should be. That's the challenge we all have, but I hope that the government parties and the government when we get out of New Year's, will look at how this works, and will help us to perhaps add additional funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1983	The Christian People's Party and other parties in the Committee have found each other in budgetary observations relating to the next year's government budget, inter alia. as regards the guarantee of dignity and the provision of services in the care of the elderly and in the field of drugs, particularly related to prevention. However, the Christian People’s Party takes up in its main comments and in its statement that government’s tender practices are the result of the queueing of many drug addicts. qualitative and quantitative objectives are set in terms of health, etc. My questions are: What changes have been made since the Christian People's Party in the government introduced the tendering practice? What changes will the Christian People's Party make to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1988	I suppose the representative is talking about changes to the tender rules. In that case, you can do more things. Firstly, the government can practice it in a better way for the ideal institutions than you do today. When, for example: in the case of rehabilitation, a bidding round involving both commercial and non-profit institutions has been initiated precisely in those days. We think that's very unfortunate. In addition, perhaps the representative knows that there has been a dialogue between the parliamentary leaders of the government parties and our party leader, where we have made a number of proposals for action on how to do this better. In other EU countries, tender rules are practised in a completely different way, protecting the ideals and offering a good offer. But of course, the quality has to be as good there as in public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1993	I have a question about the enterprise model, that the Christian People's Party will go away from him, but that the solution to the Christian People's Party is a constitution – now I have to be corrected if I have perceived errors – and that today's regional work will be placed under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I thought the Christian People's Party was busy with local elected management of the hospital policy. I find it difficult to see that putting it under the Ministry of Health and Welfare will be able to get the popular government that I believe both the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e1999	Thank you for the question. The representative may have misunderstood something. We want to centralize something, for example: what is going on on equivalent health services — we do not have that between the four regional health establishments today — for example. a structural development, a national local hospital plan. Then we will also decentralize other and important decisions regarding the delivery of healthcare, prioritizing what the population in the individual area needs there and then. We want to decentralize that. I believe that most of what is being done today by regional health businesses could be decentralised. Of course, this needs to be further investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2006	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2009	As you know, the left is not represented in the Health and Welfare Committee. I hope it's temporary. We have therefore not had the opportunity to promote the position of the left in the setting we are currently dealing with. As in the past when the Storting dealt with the budget of the Labour and Social Committee, the Left has chosen not to promote changes in appropriations under individual items according to our priorities in the Chamber today. We are therefore voting in favour of the government's draft budget, as a result of our proposal for an alternative budget under the framework area of 15 when dealing with the financial situation of Storting. I will highlight two of the Left's priorities in the health budget: health care and care. One is about effective prevention. The second is about the weakest groups in Norway. But first I want to say a little about the major health and care challenges. It is only a little over six months since we dealt with the cooperation reform in this Chamber. The intentions of the reform are good, and the challenges it will face are great. That is why we in the Left are concerned about the implementation of the reform. An important part of the Interaction Reform is a transfer of health tasks to municipalities, and a better focus on prevention and treatment measures early in the course of the disease. If we are to have strengthened institutions in the municipalities and strengthen primary health services, the municipalities must be able to do so. The left has a belief that larger municipalities can provide better health and care services. The left has been committed to strengthening primary health services in a number of areas, including: through increased capacity and better provision of health sisters and health stations. Health sisters are important to many young people. A good health sister easily picks up problems that young people may have and can build up a trust relationship that is difficult to replace by others in the health sector. The health sisters also know the system well, and can easily refer a youth to the appropriate professional environment. However, in many places the health care care service has poor capacity. That's too bad. Because not only is the health care service a good preventive service, it is also a socially cheap way to provide health advice and health care to young people. The left therefore proposes a significant commitment to this service in our alternative state budget. The left has also prioritised the treatment of addicts. About a month ago, the European Centre for Drug Addiction produced a report showing that Norway is at the top of European countries in terms of overdose deaths. This is a sad and sad first place, which shows that we need new grips in our care. It's embarrassing that addicts are in line for emergency detoxification. It is difficult for addicts to find room for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment when detoxification is completed. And it's embarrassing that over 2,000 people have died of overdose in the last ten years. Drug addicts need treatment, health care and rehabilitation. The goal must not only be restlessness, but also a worthwhile life for those who are unable to become restless. Therefore, proper treatment needs to be provided, including: through increased use of medically assisted rehabilitation. Cross-disciplinary specialised drug treatment needs to be reinforced. The left therefore proposes an increased allocation to LAR and emergency detoxification with a total of 150 million. kr. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left vote in favour of minority proposals No. 1-10 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2033	I thank you for the article. The left is not represented in the Health Committee, so there's a lot of left-wing points of view we haven't been able to get along with. I noticed that the representative mentioned public health aspects in his post several times, and I am pleased about that. Since the Left does not have my own comments, I have had to go to the Left's proposal for an alternative state budget and have been somewhat surprised by some of the posts. The left proposes to reduce the fees on wine by 150 million. kr. This could lead to a strengthening of the Norwegian holy alcohol culture with continental alcohol culture, with a little more alcohol every day. Does the Left believe that it will improve public health and the growing-up conditions for children that we get more everyday alcohol as well as holy alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2044	Noise policy is important for the Left, which I spent a lot of my post on. Drug addicts must meet medical and social instruments, including rehabilitation. Offers to relatives are also very important in such a phase. I do not believe – and the Left does not believe – that the drug policy is undermined by an increase in the levy on spirits and a reduction in the levy on wine. We want a higher fee on alcohol, but as the representative also says, we have reduced it on beer and wine. That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2049	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2052	Good health and care services are one of the foundations of a safe welfare country. When you get sick, you have to make sure you get good help, and the offer is just as good for everyone. We're going to have a high-quality health care system that's at the forefront of both medicine and technology. We're going to have care services where the individual is seen and met with respect. In particular, we need to provide a health service where those who experience long-term disease are better cared for. We have to assume that the threshold to ask for help is different from the population, and therefore build a health care system that extends a hand to those who need to be seen or perhaps not seen. At these times, it may be necessary to remember that as elected representatives and politicians, we also have a special responsibility for those who do not have action groups or those who go on a torch. We take this responsibility best through a public health service, and we have a good public health service in Norway. We're at the forefront of medical and technological research. We treat more and more, more people get good treatment, and we survive diseases we died of before. But there is also room for improvement, and the government will strengthen, improve and renew health and care services. Quality and patient safety are important for the government. In the fall, I made ten points to strengthen the quality and patient safety of hospitals. Ahus, the new hospital in Akershus, has shown that it is possible with effort and will. They have greatly reduced hospital infections, and in the last two years the number of adverse events is almost halved. This work is important because it is profitable for hospitals, but mainly because it is about the safety, safety and saved suffering of the individual patient. In 2011, we set aside funds for our own patient safety campaign focusing on challenging issues. There is a separate exclamation unit to move out in the event of serious incidents, and I have also strengthened the hospital's warning obligation when serious incidents occur. In its work, health surveillance shall give greater emphasis to the voice and views of the relatives in all matters and the relatives shall be better cared for. Until 2009, waiting times in the specialist health service have increased. Timeouts occur too often. I am therefore following this area closely and will from the New Year of few monthly reports from the hospitals on deadlines and waiting times. Patients should be treated within the agreed time limit. I have made it clear to the companies that they need to guide patients to receive treatment before a delay occurs. Here, too, we see that targeted work gives effect. At the Östfold Hospital, the number of deadlines is approaching zero, and at Nordfjord DPS, the waiting times for treatment are among the lowest in the country. In this year’s draft government budget, the government proposes an increase in the hospital budget of nearly 1 billion. kr. It provides space to enhance quality and patient safety. It also allows for more treatment and a reduction in waiting times and the number of deadlines. The government has indicated that there is considerable uncertainty about the 2011 pension cost and contribution estimates, and new information may indicate that pension costs can be higher than those underlying the draft budget. Final pension costs will not be known until the end of January. The government will come back to the matter in the context of the revised national budget. In the business meeting with the regional health enterprises, the governance requirements will not be affected by this. More money for health provides a good basis for improving the quality and supply of hospitals. But we can't build a sustainable health service for the future without doing structural grips. This is the government's work on the Cooperation Reform is about. We get more with diabetes, coals and muscle and skeletal disorders. More is affected by cancer. We can and will help more people who experience mental illness, and we will help more people out of addiction. Overweight and a more inactive population are serious developments that we also need to deal with. The most important thing we can do to meet these challenges is to focus more on prevention. We need to prevent fewer people from getting sick and prevent more people from living better lives if they first have a disease. It's not a job for the health sector alone. Several sectors have to move in the same direction. In the autumn, the government presented proposals for a new law on municipal health and care services. We have also put forward a new public health law, which focuses on the principle of health in everything we do. We have consulted on the basis of a new national health and care plan. With these documents, we are putting into practice the reform of cooperation, and we are going from word to word. Through these, we focus more on prevention, on comprehensive and coherent services and, in particular, on better treatment for the major disease groups where they live. In the years to come, we're going to be more people who need help, while getting fewer people to take care of us and give this help. This is also a challenge for care services. In the last period, the government succeeded in recruiting 13,000 new professionals as care staff. This year, we will continue our efforts through the Competence Lift. That's what results are. Only last year 1 100 unskilled people in the care service received an adapted training course that gave them a letter of formal qualifications. The number of medical jobs in nursing homes is increasing, as is the total share of skilled education. This is essential in order to provide good and dignified care for the elderly. Demis affects the one who gets the disease, and also relatives. We estimate that about 60 000 people have dementia in Norway. A lot of evidence suggests that dementia is at a lower age. Knowledge of the disease and the needs of those affected enables us to help more and provide better care. The government continues its commitment to care research, which is particularly important in this context. We allocate more money to visiting schools and staff knowledge raising. I want to praise the government parties on the Stortinget, which have shown a special commitment to demente and their relatives. They have received additional appropriations for, among other things. cooperation with non-profit and voluntary organisations. This is a recognition of their very important role in this work. I want to end with something I also raised in the financial debate. We need a debate on our view of the elderly. If we don't need a change of mind, we need a change of attitude. The society's view of the elderly moves in a direction that sometimes worries me. Our view of the elderly and the perception of old age must not be equated with withdrawal. Our view of the elderly must reflect how we ourselves want to live our lives, and what we ourselves want in our old age. More healthy and active elderly people can contribute in a different way than before in society. Our respect for and joy over the elderly must be as clear as our joy and enthusiasm over our young ones. The increasing number of older people living longer is an expression of a society that has succeeded, and we must embrace this with joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2080	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2083	I have to be allowed to praise the closure of the post to the Council of State, which I think was very good, but there is no reason, of course, not to do more and absolutely necessary things with that part of the care for the elderly that does not work. This fall we have all been met with – in fact overburdened with – headlines in various media about low value conditions in the care of the elderly, spread over the whole country, probably from municipalities ruled by all parties. Nevertheless, both the Council of State, the Prime Minister, and today also the Hagebakken, present this as a new and reinforced effort in the care of the elderly. The garden hill promised that 70 pst. The rapporteurs of the Labour Party were to spend the money on the care of the elderly. At the same time, one in six rapporteurs, via the KS, say that they want to spend billions of years on the elderly. What does the council know that we don't, the municipalities or anyone else knows, which means that she can guarantee that this money goes to the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2090	It is true that the extra billion was given as a free income, but it was also clear that it was desirable that the money be used for a better care for the elderly. So we know that there are actually some municipalities that have an old age care that shines. In fact, there are some municipalities also in the vicinity of Oslo that have it, and that I myself have been in. And then there are some municipalities that have chosen to reduce their debt, but that also makes them freed up funds to spend more on the elderly. Then, with all due respect, I have to say that we have had a truly significant promise in connection with the grants to the nursing homes and nursing homes of the lucky day. It's important to the government. It is important that we are able to expand several lucky days' care places, and that we are able to achieve the goals we have set ourselves towards 2015. At the same time, it is important to increase the number of employees, and we get that through free money in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2098	Earlier this fall, the health and care committee in Switzerland looked at the drug policy there. We were told that the risk of death was never greater than that after detoxification. In this room, the government has voted against a proposal from the opposition for rights-fixing treatment after detoxification, so that in Norway large-scale detoxification is given as a kind of break for worn-out bodies before being released into the street again. What does the Minister of Health really think of such a policy as is considered fatal in other countries, but which is the rule in our own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2105	With regard to the treatment of drug addicts, I think of these patients in the same way as I think of all other patients – that they have the right to necessary health care, that they should be given individual deadlines, that they should receive a treatment offer adapted to the individual, and not least that they should be evaluated by professional experts, by health professionals who should both provide guidance and bring the individual into the proper treatment. I think that I and the government parties are just as concerned about helping addicts out of drug addiction, for those who are able to do it, or giving good medicine-assisted rehabilitation to those who benefit from it and want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2110	Over the New Year, several important health institutions are at risk of closure. This applies, inter alia, to: Oslo Hospital, which is an important offer to mentally ill people at risk of violence. When the Minister of Health was confronted with this, she answered questions on November 29th: ‘I trust that Health South-East RHF will carry out a clean tendering process for all the operators involved’. This also applies to the Duedalen Blue Cross Treatment Centre in Sandnes, which offers an important offer to addicts. The Minister for Health answered questions on 1 December: ‘I am therefore confident that regional health firms have ensured the highest quality of services for those addicted to drugs.’ One may sometimes believe that the Minister of Health is still Minister of Defence, but now the Minister of System Defence. Is it not possible for the Minister of Health to do as the Right has suggested: intervene, extend these agreements in order to investigate other models that ensure good decisions for patients, for the patients at risk, for rubrics and for mentally ill patients in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2125	Several parties at Stortinget have been very concerned that we should use NPISHs in both mental health and drug treatment. I was very pleased that Health West, when they went out with offers for drug treatment, went out to ideal institutions. Health South-East chose to go out against ideals when it came to the offers they should have in the field of mental health protection. So it is also that when I answered the questions, the tendering process was in progress. There may be changes in the nature of the institutions that have been contracted. Of course, we want to keep the institutions that provide good treatment, and quality and availability should count 70 pst. I have to trust that Health South-East also has quality and availability at the top of its tender list.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2134	The right view is that we have decision-making systems to come up with wise decisions. When our decision-making systems come up with unwise decisions, it's time to change the system. In this context, I believe that the Minister of Health really agrees that the outcome of these bidding rounds is not wise, that these are institutions that one would want. I also believe that the Minister of Health sees that these are institutions for which there is a great deal of need. Why, then, is it so difficult for the Minister of Health, who owns regional health companies, to intervene and say that the agreements that these institutions have extend for at least six months, and then we are asked to investigate new decision-making systems, so that we ensure that these institutions can continue to live on and provide an offer that everyone in this Chamber, I believe, is needed – not least Oslo Hospital, which offers a patient group that the Olsen Committee has just found out that there is a need to expand the offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2141	Sometimes I have to say I wonder about the Right, who is constantly asking for more use of the private. It is also such that more use of ideals we somehow have to select from a purchasing process. It's not like I have access to go out and directly provide services. It has to be done through purchasing processes. That's how the code is set up. So I think many times you could wish it was more flexibility. But we now once have a regulation, which I think quite a number of parties are pleased that we have, which regulates and protects. Then, of course, in the future we will also gain experience with the processes that have been. Nor is it the way health businesses live in a vacuum. We want to go through how procurement processes are done, and we are also, as has been said in Stortinget today, in a process to see how we can better care for NPISHs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2148	Health South-East wrote yesterday on their websites that they believe that there is a need for a capacity increase in purchases from private individuals in the case of mental illness. They also say that they are in dialogue with the Oslo Hospital to possibly continue their offer. Then in the Health West one is concerned that another patient group, the group between 30 and 50 years of age within the drug, will not receive adequate treatment. This concerns, among other things: Ashøy Blue Cross Clinic. There will be 30 days lost now, according to what happened on Friday. In the case of free hospital choice, according to them then, the waiting time for daily treatment at this clinic is as much as 31 weeks. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State would like to ask Health West to prepare an independent, separate direct acquisition to strengthen the offer to the Ru group, which in the West is therefore in desperate need of help. Such a grip has been taken by the government in the past, if I do not remember completely wrong – 15 million. kr from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2157	With regard to the first example taken up by the representative of Davøy, Oslo Hospital, this procedure with tenders has also been subject to a complaint procedure. And then you go through and see if you've gotten enough space. I just have to say that I actually expect regional health companies to have an overview of what they need from private and especially from NPISHs, in both of the categories that the representative Davøy mentions. At the same time, on Wednesday, I stood here in Stortinget and answered ten questions from about all the Christian People's Party's big business representatives. Everyone had an institution that they especially burned for. I understand that you want to take care of the institutions that you know about, but at the same time, if you want to have a tender system to choose from according to quality and availability, you have to expect health companies to be able to do that job with their expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2166	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2169	Good welfare is a matter of allocating the resources of society. For the Workers' Party, a strong public sector will be the guarantor in order to maximise the distribution of goods and the best possible well-being. Competitive outsourcing, privatisation and other market-setting challenges the fundamentals of our welfare state. We see that the new actors who want to take over public responsibility are different from those who have been there before. There will be more and more profit-based international companies, registered in tax havens, which will win bids made from municipalities, while non-profit and non-commercial companies will give up or be bought up by monetary actors. We see it in the kindergarten sector. The Labour Party does not want this in the care sector. I want to develop some of the efforts we have made in the budget that will provide better care, in a diverse municipal regime or together with ideal and volunteers. I want to highlight the increases in dementia care. The number of people with dementia is increasing, and it is therefore important to provide for knowledge and good competence for employees in the treatment of those affected by dementia. Well, it's so important to see the needs of the relatives and figure out how we're going to help them deal with this difficult disease the best. Dementia plan 2015 has many good objectives, and by strengthening dementia care as we do now, we can implement the plan as we wish. One of the objectives of the plan is relatives and discussion groups to be available throughout the country. Where the offer is today, this is done in cooperation between non-governmental organisations, such as the dementia associations of the National Association for Public Health, the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association and the Church's Urban Mission. We want to make this offer even more accessible, and we want to further develop it. So we're going to allocate $15 million. kr more for this purpose in 2011, where both municipalities and organisations can apply for support. This is how even more people will be able to share. The purpose of allergen schools is to provide the related knowledge of the disease and how a best person can cope with being related to a dement. Realising what's happening could help to improve the quality of life both for those who are affected and for those who are standing next to it. Feedback from participants, such as: from Årdal, where the scheme has been evaluated, shows that the benefit of such measures to its family has been good and that it has made it easier to understand as well as to help. Competence is important, and the training programme ‘Demensorgens ABC’, developed under the auspices of the National Centre of Competence for Ageing and Health, is a great contribution. Over 8 000 employees in over 250 municipalities participate. We think this is so important that we want to strengthen this by another 6 million. NOK so that an additional number of employees can receive training. The demonstration line's helpline is an offer to anyone who has questions about dementia. There are always many unanswered and difficult questions that arise, therefore this help phone can be a good offer for the many who need it. There's a qualified health professional who knows the subject. That's why we're strengthening this line by 500,000 kroner. Our three dementia lighthouses should also be mentioned, the Kroken in Tromsø, Abildsø in Oslo and Songdalen in West Agder. This is an educational health home that is responsible in particular for the development of skills in dementia care. For the important work they do, like lighthouses and builders of competences, we're increasing the grant by three million. kr. In addition, the development of new care facilities is important. It is very good that the grant scheme is now strengthened, so that it can be built more. It's going to matter to both dents and others who need good luck and care. It is important to highlight the efforts made by volunteers for a better day for the elderly. Voluntary organisations do a lot of work every day. A good example of this is the Red Cross, a nationwide organization with over 6,000 volunteers. This is a good addition to the offers made by the public. They complement non-offered arenas, increase well-being and contribute to life content. Therefore, we strengthen the Red Cross Visiting Service for the elderly by 1.5 million. kr and increases the grant to the Church's City Mission, money that we know will be used for pleasure and benefit. Lifelong care for the Elderly is another voluntary action, which is further strengthened in the budget here in the United Kingdom. No one manages to be untouched after seeing how they give caregiving older people a content today, and not least gives life satisfaction. The film we saw, where the elderly with long-range dementia were on the trail in the cold and ate sausages fried on fire, and the joy they showed should impress everyone. The work they do is important, and that's why we're also increasing that grant. Interaction with volunteers is important, but it must be lubricated by means, because only then can many good forces and measures be triggered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2203	When this state budget was launched, it was claimed by the red-green government that the 2011 budget was a commitment to the further development of the welfare state. Well-being over tax havens has been the Prime Minister's mantra on in and out. It was like what was supposed to make the difference between the red-green and opposition policies. If we focus on the question of whether we see an improvement in the provision of welfare, we need to look at who is responsible for the greatest welfare production. Norwegian municipalities are currently producing nearly 70 pst. of welfare services in this country. Therefore, in today's situation, the local economy is crucial for our well-being. Under the red-green government, the local government's debt has gone right. Since 2003, the local government sector has almost doubled its debt. At the same time, the government asks that municipalities increase social assistance, expand the kindergartens, employ more teachers, provide adapted training to all who need it, fill the swimming pools, build nursing homes and nursing homes, provide exclusive facilities to all who want it, provide nourishing assistance at meals and time enough to eat and ensure that users of nursing and care services are provided with participation in the day-to-day provision of services. This is a calculation that just doesn't go up, and the 2011 budget makes the situation even worse. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance presents the budget as a budget for work and well-being. We've heard in this room several times that the wit is evenly distributed here in the country. The confirmation that there might be something in that statement, we got when Kommune-Norge protested strongly and clearly stated that there would be no better welfare services, that the budget also did not allow for increased bets, and that therefore the government should not produce it like that. Then TV 2 came on the track with revelations of the wide range of care services in Norwegian municipalities. TV 2 had come to the conclusion that 3,068 old, sick elderly people were waiting in sick homes. The waiting time at the hospital place could vary from one week to up to ten years, we heard. The Ministry and the Health Authority's immediate reaction to the revelations becomes almost like shooting the postman because you don't like the content of the letter he comes with. The municipalities that had notified that patients were on a waiting list should be taken. It is forbidden to have waiting lists, and everyone has a statutory right to necessary health care, we were told. On the other hand, I would like to pay tribute to those who have had the courage to say that patients do not receive the necessary health care at the so-called best effective level of care, or the BEON principle that was introduced through the Interaction Reform. In my view, those municipalities should be considered in line with other alerts in society, alerts that say something is fundamentally wrong. In the Progress Party, we have long talked about a systemic error when the provision, design, quality and content of important welfare services such as care for the elderly, care and care services are to depend entirely on the economy of each municipality. When the local government's economic room for action gets worse, the alarm clocks should call the government, but they don't. But TV 2's revelations have caused someone to wake up. There was probably one in the government quarter that found out that it was under one year left for the next municipal elections, and that perhaps the state budget and the revelations did not give the government parties the best starting point for that event. Then we got a reaction from the government that, in my opinion, reminds us the most of a death spasm. First, the investment grant to lucky places would be further increased, and not enough with it: the rates would have retroactive effect from 2008, a very good measure and in line with what we from the Progress Party have been discussing in budgetary terms in recent years. But what's strange is that while the Progress Party has put money into such actions in its budgets and has been accused of irresponsibility in relation to the rule of action and of operating voodoo economy, the government is launching such a proposal, which is carefully estimated to cost 850 million. NOK, without adding one penny to the table. In addition, the government launches what they call an older billion. It sounds great, but it's actually a rhetorical bluff. The funds shall be allocated to the municipalities as a lump sum and free of charge. This means, in practice, that they cannot be used for operations. The Minister of Local Affairs recommends that the money be used to pay off debts, which according to the KS will give municipalities 12 kroner per capita in increased rooms of action, as a result of reduced interest and deductions. Overall, this billion can be used on a national basis for the operation of 70 hospitals, says KS. Then only 2,998 people lack space, according to TV 2, and then I understand with what the representative Hagebakken really meant when he said that the government is using the money smartly. The whole point is that the government is launching the so-called dignity guarantee. Eight points state what the government means by taking good care of it. I have asked both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health what is new in relation to the 16-point quality regulation we have had in the care sector since 1997. The answers I received were based on my opinion of pure ignorance. The Health Minister's answer to me was almost to grade the quality regulation as inferior to the new regulation. It's scary, and I'm worried on behalf of the many caressing people who through the quality regulation would look black on white what they can expect from the welfare services, and what kind of quality it should be on them. When, in addition, we have the law in force through the Fusa judgment, which defines that the municipality is not allowed to go to a level below sound minimum standards even if the municipality has poor finances, the caregiver should have some security. When the government stops talking down the importance of the quality regulation, when the municipalities do not have the means to solve all the tasks imposed, and the money comes as free money that local politicians can spend on anything other than care for the elderly and improved care provision, yes, unworthyness will continue. So I know that someone will claim that this is black paint. Some would point out that there is a lot of good work being done to our many needy people. Of course it's true, but I don't accept that this is exactly what becomes a sleeping cushion for those who are responsible for the system's malfunction. I have experienced many times employees in the health sector who go home crying, because they believe that users have not received the offer they professionally believe they need. I do not know employees report deviations, because they believe it is wasted time, and because they feel that there is no change. Some people also feel that they are unwell at work if they report unworthy circumstances. This has been the case both before and after 1997, when the quality regulation came, and there is no evidence that we will have changes. My home municipality has been run by the Workers' Party continuously for almost 100 years. The municipality has been one of the worst in the country in terms of exclusivity, despite the fact that 15 years ago the Workers' Party promised exclusiveness to all those who wanted it. The municipality had planned to fix some of this picture by turning a number of double rooms into exclusive rooms and opening new nursing homes with exclusive rooms in 2011. When the consequences of the state budget became known, it was stated from the top team in the municipality that in my municipality the quality regulations and the dignity guarantee still have to wait. The majority of the municipal government only drew on the shoulders of it. And even when the municipality got 14 million extras due to a calculation error in the department, the majority spent the money on non-statutory tasks. But old sick and nurturing people can't wait; they must get help now. The Progress Party will have clear legal rights. We also want automatic state funding of services when it is professionally established that the need is present. First we have the opportunity to get a decent care and care service. The progress party believes that the development of lucky places is too slow, and we believe that there have been too few health homes built in relation to nursing homes. Unfortunately, this is economically motivated by the municipalities, and it is not the need that governs. That is why, in our alternative budget, we have doubled the state grant to hospitals and increased the framework, so that we can build 3,000 new hospitals next year. We also know that many municipalities are struggling to finance the operation of both sites that are built and sites that are planned. So we've added 2 billion. This will, of course, continue in the coming years. There is little indication of the government's willingness to take account of the empowerment needed by municipalities to meet the challenges of the Cooperation Reform. We already see trends in the specialist health service adapting, but the municipalities are not equipped to accept them professionally. There is too much unskilled in the community health service. The municipalities are not good enough to take in apprentices. Retirement and training costs, and local authorities do not have the means to do so. An overall committee points to the need for more skilled people and an increase in the proportion of three-year higher education. The goal and increase proposed by the government in terms of the number of medical posts in the municipality is, in our opinion, far too weak to meet the need. Unfortunately, ageing psychiatry is down priority, and the offer of Parkinson's in municipal institutions is almost absent. I am disappointed with how the government has handled the issue of the rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistant. Everyone was expecting us to get a rights fixation, for which there is a majority in Stortinget, but instead, users feel that the offer is getting worse. This, at the top of the changes that happened last year when it came to resource-intensive services, tells me that disabled people cannot trust this government. It shall be said that there are a number of small but important changes in appropriations made in this budget. Several of them we agree, like NOKLUS, Lifejoyed for the Elders, Visiting Service, Contact Telephones and Hearing Aid, to mention someone. One should perhaps also enjoy the small victories, as the government parties this year have gone into several of our remarks that they were outside last year, but I can't pick up the great enthusiasm. The government goes with its back first into the future. The government is most concerned about preserving the system. The attention of users who do not receive the services they need comes in a different range. The government has few or no constructive solutions. When even conservative Right appears more radical in terms of the renewal of the welfare services in the public sector, government parties should understand that they have expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2239	The draft budget we are discussing today will be a good budget for health work in Norway next year. It will be good because the budget is large, because it is based on an ideology that looks ahead, and because the budget strengthens areas and efforts that traditionally lose out on an open competition between strong and weak healthcare actors. The budget is big, with a frame of 133 billion. kr. While our close cooperation countries in Europe are in deep debt crises and cuts in public and private welfare, our health budget can grow by 3.8pst. This means real growth of 1 billion. after taking into account increased costs and new tasks. There's a main stake in the hospitals, with a new 970 million. for more patient treatment and shorter waiting times. Even in a large budget, there will be no room for everything. There are still large and small areas we want to do even more. But the success of the welfare community is well as much dependent on what we get out of the funds as how much we can afford at the top. Material growth will always have limits. Innovation, good work processes, good management and fellow human beings have no limits. Real use of 133 billion. kr is more important than competing for additional funds that have now gone into important work in education and transport. A good budget has become even better through the co-decision procedure. Government parties have noted the many constructive input from non-profits and other organisations in the hearings. The budget has therefore increased by 58 million. kr in the financial position for increased efforts, in particular for the elderly and people with dementia. One of the many important interaction wheels that have received full funding is the NOKLUS health home project, which provides high quality blood sample analysis in hospitals. The budget is also good because it is based on a solidarity model for the distribution of services. When we are healthy, we have many needs and many desires. Choices and opportunities are managed, inter alia: of personal finances. When we get sick, we only have one wish: to get help and get better. Therefore, such assistance cannot be managed by the same market as the seller of insurance. Therefore, for the Workers' Party, hospitals must be essentially public. The right parties have a fundamentally different ideology. In the contemporary debate, the right parties do not boast of these ideologies. On the other hand, it is new that private hospital services paid by the community are not properly private. The hospital investors will disagree with this. But it's not profitable to talk loudly about your own ideology now. Private insurance companies must make money in order to have safe jobs and secure damage settlements. Rich people can have good life insurance. Poor people can't have life insurance. This is what the unmediatedness of the genealogies follows. Equal rights to health care require a different set of values. Then the hospitals can't float in a market. Then Community solutions are the best. The 2011 budget proposal has a major stake in hospitals. It must be built in Eastfold, in Bergen and in Stavanger. The activity is increased by 970 million. kr. We have had a large increase in treatment in recent years, but new opportunities and new offers have unfortunately led to waiting times in many areas not falling – therefore larger appropriations. But more money alone is not enough. Training is needed for professionals, a good working environment and good management. The interaction reform and increasing knowledge of management of knowledge activities are necessary. We have an hour or a half of the debate left. Then, the processes of a good budget start quickly for 2012 as well. The representative of Davøy addressed the need for research on dementia. I support that commitment. We should therefore debate initiatives and approaches to breakthroughs in dementia research in the coming period. The debate should include both visionary international action and minor national action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2258	The aim of health and care policies is to ensure that everyone receives good health and care services when they need it – so simple and so difficult! Although Norwegian health services are world-class in many areas, it is still not obvious that you get help when you need it. The waiting times for planned treatment are long and increasing. When a child has mental problems, a waiting time of up to three months is too long. 4700 children and young people were not treated by the 2009 deadline. Nor is it obvious that we receive high-quality health care. One in five patients in a nursing home experience mismedication. The possibility of survival of cancer is significantly higher in hospitals with good training and competence than in units with less volume of treatment. In other words, we have no reason to settle down with the state of things. We need to work continuously to improve the offer, not just defend the system. The patient and user organisations, the SINTEF and the Health Authority have for several years pointed to significant failures in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Many people experience good health care in an acute phase of heart attack, accident, stroke or other disease. But when the blue lights go out, many people experience being forgotten. Without the necessary training, many lose the opportunity to get healthy and manage themselves. The Blind Alliance has well described this in a consultation opinion on the draft budget. They point out that only a few of those who lose sight are offered training and rehabilitation and that the average waiting time is five years. Studies show that without rehabilitation you become sleepless and depressed, lose contact with friends and become inactive. After rehabilitation, most are back in an active life and problems are reduced. Given that 600 000 people of working age are out of work because of health problems, it is alarming that rehabilitation is as low a priority as that of this government. The government was criticized by more than 45 organisations for breaking its promise to ensure the training of all those who need it. The government's response was not to improve supply, but to reduce ambitions. By the second quarter of 2010, according to the Health Directorate, there were 5,698 waiting for physical medicine and rehabilitation in the specialist health service. This is approx. 1300 more than at the same time in 2007. At the Inland Hospital, the waiting time for rehabilitation is 72 days on average. Then it is paradoxical that several rehabilitation institutions in this area are experiencing cutbacks and threats of closure. Regional health establishments are instructed to purchase services from those institutions at least at the same level as before in order to meet the need for such services. Three out of four health regions have not met this requirement between 2008 and 2009. Health South-East has complied with the requirement, but reports itself that the capacity in this area is not sufficient. In view of this, it is alarming that government parties are reducing the earmarked appropriations for action in the draft budget. In the current year’s budgetary procedure, the Government Parties decided to amend the funding arrangements for outpatient physiotherapy. This warned the Right and the other opposition parties against, because they feared this would weaken the offer. Unfortunately, we got right. We now see that pool cleaning and other rehabilitation services are being laid down throughout the country, both in Kristiansund, in Levanger, in Røros and in Oslo. Thus, many patients lose an offer that enables them to work and master everyday life. The very general and low-obligatory strategy for rehabilitation has also failed to produce good results. The Joint Organisation of disabled people, in its consultation response to the budget, states that the FFO had high expectations of the strategy but notes that it ‘has not in any way become the focus of the response area that was intended and expected’. The right sees a commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation as an investment in better health and quality of life for patients. That's why we're proposing to label 400 million. kr in the context of increased activity in health establishments, in rehabilitation, drug treatment and travel abroad. Thus, we provide clear political leadership for which area should be given priority, as we introduced in 2004 the requirement to prioritize mental health protection and drug treatment. We record that government parties do not support this, but will leave the political priorities to health businesses. Right-wing fears that patients who need rehabilitation will lose this priority fight again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2277	The Norwegian model of a good public health system, complemented by an ideal healthcare system, provides healthcare in Norway, which is at the top of the world. We're proud of that, but that doesn't mean we're satisfied. We know well that there are still unresolved health care tasks, and therefore we do not propose a reduction in taxes. The government prioritises strengthening health rather than tax relief. We are concerned that the ideals should have good conditions, but support their demands, so that patients receive good services. I have to say that I think it is a little strange to hear the Right Party, which is the privatisation party in front of some people, saying that now the agreements are to be frozen and that one distance from the line of competition that has been said all year long is the solution of most things. I look forward to hearing how the Right has intended that the private will have contracts if it is not to be tendered. I thought that was the solution of the bourgeois at most, all the time they claim that everything gets both better and cheaper with competitive outsourcing. It's going to be a little bit difficult, when you're not going to pick someone out. As an east fold, I must say a few words about the joyous budget allocation to the new Eastfold hospital. It has been a long process to get to where we are today, from five hospitals to one. There has been a process involving both employees, trust leaders and the population, driven by courageous politicians. Now they get their reward, with a modern hospital with single rooms and with the most modern in construction and equipment. That's what the Eastern folds deserve, and we're happy about that. Over the last few years, a great job has been done in mental health, both at specialist level and in municipalities. The escalation plan has resulted in more than twice as many people getting help today. Psychiatric disorders are probably among those disorders where we see a large increase, and then it is important that we continue to prioritise mental health. In that period, the DPS have been expanded around the country, and people are now receiving services near where they live. The development of outpatient teams and DPS has meant that patients can be given outpatient treatment and treatment at home to reduce the number of admissions. It's positive, and it gives patients better quality of life. Now that the funds for mental health in the municipalities have been included in the framework, we have received some concerns from municipalities that assess cut-offs in the supply of mental health. This is happening at the same time as municipalities increase their health budgets altogether. It shows that it is still important that we focus on mental health and that it must have the same status as somatic health. Several organisations we have met in the budget work have had a strong focus on the need for the growth of mental health appropriations in the municipal sector. The most important thing we can do in mental health is to prevent, and then it's important that the individual gets caught up quickly. It is possible to prevent and initiate early treatment in municipalities, which in turn will lead to a reduction in the use of coercion. Therefore, I am pleased that there are several municipalities that prioritise mental health, and that several have used the support scheme to add psychologists to the municipality. In the 2011 budget, this item has been increased to provide room for 110 psychologists. This is a good contribution to mental health in the municipality. To date, municipalities have recruited psychologists for family centres, health centres, school health services and adult mental health services. We have received several good examples that these are measures that both act as prevention and can prevent a long period of disease. There are many actors in mental health, and it is important that we make demands for good quality and follow-up to both public and private actors. Together, we will continue to work for a good development in mental health with a focus on content and quality. Several municipalities have launched successful projects. We have met municipalities where they have appointed psychologists to whom children and young people can use without having to go through the firm. They have statistics that show that most people might manage with a few-three consultations, rather than that, if they had gone ill for a long time and the disease had developed, they would have needed treatment for a long time. I am proud to belong to a majority who prioritize the community over the individual's wallet, and who believe it is a responsibility for the public to provide good health services, but who regard the ideal as a completely necessary and good supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2296	I want to start by saying that we, too, who represent Westfold, are happy on Eastfold's behalf that they get a new hospital, and that it's even so modern that it has single rooms, we also enjoy it. I also want to make a confession, because when Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen took over as Minister of Health, I was one of many who hoped that she was a government council that would address the major challenges we saw in the specialist health service. Unfortunately, the challenges have only become more and more common under this Council of States. In this way, the government's draft budget is only a natural one and, unfortunately, a regrettable follow-up to the line that the government has stood for. It is a line that has helped health cows grow and grow, and that patients have to wait longer and longer. In somatic hospitals, there are now about 12,600 bed posts, while in health care there are almost as many bureaucrats who are not involved in patient-related work. To put it another way: there are 2,000 more bureaucrats in hospitals than there are doctors — understand who can. During this debate, hospital queues will continue to increase. Now waits approx. 277 000 people on treatment in Norwegian hospitals – an increase of over 70 000 people since the government took over. Nevertheless, the red-green budget here today does not contribute to the reduction of health cows, rather on the contrary. I am so convinced that I am willing to take a debate on it in connection with next year's budget as well. The Progress Party represents an alternative to this policy, not just by proposing 2.2 billion in our alternative budget. Dr more – just to increase patient treatment and investment in medical devices – but also by changing the business model so that we get rid of the overbureaucratic regional health companies – for which it seems to be a majority in this room. But unfortunately, it is not that all parties follow their convictions in that matter. The release of resources currently used in unnecessary bureaucracy must, in the view of the Progress Party, in addition to what we propose extra appropriations, help to increase processing capacity. Through our draft budget, we contribute 620 million. more to health care businesses in order to increase patient treatment. In addition, we suggest increasing the ISF share to 50 pst, so that hospitals get more incentives to treat more patients. We also propose 800 million. NOK for the purchase of treatment capacity in private hospitals. This alone would have contributed to almost 20,000 more coming out of the health queue and returning to work. This would have saved the costs of health care and contributed to more value creation and well-being, not least for individuals. Healthcare companies today need to reduce patient treatment in order to finance investments in medical devices. The Party considers that it is appropriate to grant a grant to medical devices, which will not only help to improve treatment provision but also to improve the effectiveness of treatment. That is why the Progress Party proposes to allocate 800 million. kr for this purpose only. Yesterday, there was a big demonstration outside of Size. A large group of people had traveled to Oslo to fight for their local hospitals across the country, and they had a strong and clear message, as we all heard. The Health Minister's message was that there was no need for maternity wards, emergency services and other key functions at the local hospitals. She went on to say that there were so many people with new diagnostics who needed space and resources to process. Spookyly enough, it seemed that the minister wanted to turn the local hospitals into health centres where women who struggle with unwanted behaviour could be treated, with their own care outside their own home, to quote one of the most put humor programs on TV at the moment. I don't think we can put up with the fact that there is actually a need for more resources and a political will to maintain local hospitals in Norway. I therefore believe that the Minister of Health tried to get away with what I see as a relatively far-fetched statement. It is important to focus on medical research, so that in the future we can also treat diseases that we do not have the opportunity to treat today. I want to end by saying that the Progress Party is therefore strengthening medical research and development projects by a total of 95 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2324	Today we are discussing the budget for health and care, a budget with a total budget of 133.6 billion. kr, a budget for continued growth and development of specialist health and community health services and a budget which will contribute to the further development of the country’s health and care services, but which will require better interaction between both the State, the municipalities, private commercial operators and voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households. Yes, in fact, it is proposed to grant a total of 580 million. SEK to interact in next year's budget, an increase of 200 million. kr. The follow-up to the Interaction Reform through a new national health and care plan and new public health law is essential if we are to succeed in shifting a greater share of health resources from a more specialised healthcare service to a decentralised healthcare service, which can provide a more holistic service, closer to where people live today. In order to achieve this, the government has proposed a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of 5.7 billion. kr. One of our greatest societal challenges is all those who have drug problems, and the relatives who are struggling with this daily in their immediate family. The main responsibility for alcohol and drug policies is enshrined in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Ministry is responsible for a comprehensive and coordinated policy aimed at preventing drug problems and providing the necessary assistance and good services to drug addicts. Responsibility also includes the coordination of services and actions related to the drug field anchored in other ministries. The responsibilities of regional health establishments for the provision of specialist health services also include drug treatment. With the Rusreform, responsibility for county action for drug users was transferred to the State by the regional health companies from 1 January 2004. The government is proposing to increase the yield by 100 million. kr for 2011. This will help to improve the provision of help and treatment to people with drug problems. Not least, this is important to your families. In addition to previous appropriations, this means that this government has increased its spending on the drug field by 1 billion. kr since 2005. In addition, a strengthened economy in municipalities and health businesses has provided the basis for further expansion of the provision of services in the field of drugs. It is proposed to strengthen municipal labour by 70 million. for increased capacity in the provision of services to those with drug problems. Strengthening municipal services will over time help to reduce the need for long-term and cost-intensive services, reduce the need for specialised drug treatment and help improve the quality of life for individuals. In order to ensure a prevention profile, 5 million are proposed. to improve the competence of municipalities and county councillors and the management of the alcohol law. It's estimated at 20 million. for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. This will help to provide more treatment services. Furthermore, 5 million is proposed. to set up two new drug supply units to strengthen the overall supply in prisons for prisoners with drug problems. The escalation plan for the drug field provides the framework for government policy in this area. The plan has 147 measures in the fields of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, research and the building of competences. Almost all measures will have started during this year. We're building rocks to give more people good health. Free dental care for drug addicts is one of many such stones. Since 2005, we have increased this allocation from 8 million. to 75 million. kr – close to a tidal period. This has given many of the weakest in society a new and better life. In order to ensure a thorough review of the report of the Stoltenberg Committee and the Action Plan for the drugs field, the government has decided to present its own drug policy issue during 2011. Pending this enlargement message, the Action Plan for the drug field will be extended by two years, i.e. 2012 out. Prevention should help to prevent drug problems from emerging and developing. Prevention consists of both availability reduction and demand reduction. The most comprehensive prevention measures are what we can call the regulatory instruments of alcohol policy, i.e. the rules on the sale and supply of alcohol, the taxes on alcohol, the ban on the advertising of alcohol and the regulation of the sale of medicinal products and the prohibition of the use of drugs. An important objective is to prevent drug addicts from falling into a rehabilitation situation. There is often an interaction between treatment and interventions to motivate treatment, to avoid relapse and to contribute to social inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2354	A good health policy requires, inter alia: that patients have good access to effective and safe medical treatment. Most patients in Norway have good access to the necessary treatment, but it is still true that Norwegian patients in some areas have a worse treatment than patients in other countries have. Swedish researchers Wilking & Jønsson published in 2009 a report comparing cancer patients’ access to medicines in different countries in Europe. The report notes that Norway continues to use less of several types of cancer drugs than many other countries in Europe. In 2007, Norway spent less money on cancer drugs per capita than both Sweden and Finland, and much less than Denmark. However, the report does not, of course, give a comprehensive picture of the treatment offered to cancer patients, because it does not include treatment options other than drugs. Nevertheless, the report raises concerns that the supply of Norwegian patients is related to developments in other European countries. During the time of the Right, our then Minister of Health and Care provided Gabrielsen with a big message on medical policy, and the Stortinget joined in several measures to strengthen patients’ access to safe medical treatment. Unfortunately, we see that these measures have not been followed up by today's government. The State Medicines Agency has recommended that the reimbursement arrangements with blue prescription should be extended to nine medicinal products, to patients with carbon, cancer, schizophrenia, osteoarthritis, blood clots and Restless Legs syndrome. The Agency considers that reimbursement of the medicinal products concerned will provide patients with better treatment and thus improve health and quality of life. The Swedish Medicines Agency has also assessed that this is cost-effective, including: because other health costs can then be reduced. A concrete example is that the Agency considers that children and adults with leukemia or gastric cancer can have a significant health benefit with several good years of life if they receive a current medicine on a blue prescription. Both the Medical Products Agency and the Health Care Centre believe that patients with osteoarthritis can be saved for major health problems related to fractures if they receive a medicine to prevent such injuries. Health authorities estimate that society spends between 4 and 5 billion. to treat fractures related to bone brittleness, and points out that improved medical treatment may also reduce these costs. Similarly, improved medical treatment of coal may also reduce the need for emergency hospital treatment. On the other hand, the government of Stoltenberg has found no room for reimbursement of a single new medicinal product in its draft budget. Thus, patients face unnecessary health problems, and society needs to spend considerable resources on repair and treatment. This is contrary to much we have talked about today, namely the cooperation reform, which is about preventing more and repairing less. This also reinforces the social health differences, because we know that effective treatment is reserved for those who can pay the entire bill themselves. The right considers that patients in Norway need to have better access to new and effective medical treatment. In our alternative budget, we set out the means to introduce pre-authorised reimbursement on blue prescriptions for medicines for the treatment of cancer, coal, schizophrenia and osteoarthritis. From the right, we see this as a good investment in better health for patients and better use of resources in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2371	It is a good health budget The Stortinget is to be treated today. In particular, it is important that the appropriations related to the Interaction Reform are increased to 580 million. kr. There is money to go to municipal cooperation, to local medical centres, to research, and not least to get more time-consuming ICT solutions in the health sector – solutions that can communicate across all levels. When the Stortinge dealt with the cooperation reform, there was a great deal of consensus that there had to be a special focus on rehabilitation. Regional health enterprises are responsible for the purchase of services by private rehabilitation and training institutions, and enterprises have received significant increases in their budgets for just such purchases. From 2005 to 2009, the purchase of specialist rehabilitation has increased from 995 million. NOK to SEK 1.3 billion. kr – and at least the same amount is to be used this year. In addition, an additional appropriation for the health budget for 2011 will be made at approx. 31 million. kr, which is a supplement to the main allocation. Therefore, it is very difficult to understand that the opposition insists that the government is paying less on rehabilitation than the previous government did. That's simply not true. For example, Health Nord in its 2011 budget has increased its efforts on the purchase of rehabilitation sites by approx. Fifteen million. kr, which is in conflict with the representative Bent Höie reported in response to my question in the reply. Then, too, the methods of rehabilitation are constantly changing, and so is the use of time. It's e.g. more now than before and therefore some rehabilitation institutions have fewer overnight stays than before. However, the most important thing is that government policies mean that more people have been given — and are given — assistance for rehabilitation and training in specialist institutions, in master centres, district medical centres, health centres and also in municipalities, whether it is also right that more people now wait for rehabilitation services because new groups have now come along with those who can get and benefit from rehabilitation, for example. cancer patients who could not have it before. The Rapid Back scheme also offers rehabilitation to people who have been or are at risk of being sick for various reasons. It is important that we analyse the results we have from the Rapid Back scheme so far, both that which is positive, and that which is negative, considering how through good rehabilitation we can get people back to their everyday lives, and, if possible, back to their working life. Then I will agree with the opposition in one thing: rehabilitation and rehabilitation have not had the focus in the health sector that the field deserves. And it goes back a little bit in time. That recognition should as such take over all the lots. We need more focus on quality and competence in rehabilitation, and we need more research on which methods are the best. Several rehabilitation actors have made provision for the development of central quality regulations for the rehabilitation field. It's important that we constantly improve the overall rehabilitation effort. Therefore, it may be useful to look at how to obtain the best offers in the framework of the Public Acquisitions Act, and also with the use of instruments other than pure tendering. Purchases in negotiations are such an alternative – a view that the government parties have strangely been left alone in the budgetary statement, despite the fact that the opposition, which speaks hot for competition when it happens to be so, has today expressed strong concern that there are people who have to lose their way in the same bidding process – understand what they want. We still have a lot to go, especially when it comes to getting good and varied rehabilitation services in the primary health service. Research shows that closeness between the user/patient and the treatment provided has a good effect. Strengthening first- and half-line rehabilitation services can strengthen the whole treatment chain in the rehabilitation field, where different levels can interact for the benefit of the patient. Therefore, it is important – and in line with the Cooperation Reform – that rehabilitation and habilitation services be developed as part of the primary health service, for example. related to local medical centres. Fortunately, there are good examples to learn from. I recently visited Mo in Rana, which has established the Rana Health Park, which is working with the Helgelands Hospital and three neighbouring municipalities to provide the people with a good rehabilitation and training offer. This is a low-threshold service at one and the other halfline level. I think just such rehabilitation efforts as this are the way to go to strengthen this field in the years to come, and where there is a cooperation between the specialist, the half-way service and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2390	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2393	I want to talk a little bit about the IOGT project together about the need. That project operates an extensive business in large parts of the country. The activities are present in Haugesund, Sauda, Karmøy, Flekkefjord, Kvinesdal, Kristiansand, Grimstad, Fromand, Porsgrund, Sandefjord and Bergen from the New Year, as well as there is a cooperation project in Larvik and possible start-up of a project in Halden next year. The project aims to address some of the needs of the drug front in Norway, by developing prevention measures, low-threshold health services, emergency work, food distribution and rehabilitation. This is done together with other non-governmental organisations, churches, businesses, humanitarian organisations and the public. There is also a report from the University of Westfold, at Ulf Dahl, which shows the social benefits of this project. There is no doubt whatsoever that the IOGT and the project's Executive Director, street priest Olaf Lande, are doing a formidable job with limited resources. The project is comparable to the work, such as: The Church's Bymission and the Salvation Army are running. I am therefore pleased that a large majority of the Committee draws particular attention to this project in its comments and asks the Health Directorate to give special priority to this in its allocation of resources. I would also like to pay tribute to Mr Mandt's long-standing involvement in the matter. The Committee also asked in 2007, 2009 and 2010 that the Joint Emergency Response should be given a special priority. When you look at developments over time, it's hard to see that this has been done to a sufficient degree. Today, the project will receive well and well 1 million. kr in support, while the need is approx. One-eight million. kr. I expect the project to get a real boost in 2011. The work that IOGT, Lande and everyone else do to help people who are struggling in our society is very valuable, and should then be valued. There's no doubt that one of these is going to have a lot of money left. Public support triggers the multiplicity of value creation in the project and thousands of volunteer hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2410	I think I would have had a slightly more solid ladder if I had stood on the top step and black painted on the hard life like Hunter Gåsvatn from the Progress Party did a little while ago here. For really, the truth is that the Progress Party is not so concerned with the care of the elderly – I dare say that – compared at least to how busy they are of tax relief. I'll explain it a little bit more immediately. In Oslo, we see the welfare policy of the Progress Party in practice. Urban areas cannot even afford to buy sick homes from their own municipality, and the number of sick homes is greatly reduced. Should the Progress Party have the opportunity to remove the property tax as they wish, Oslo will lose between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr and Kommune-Norge well and well 8 br. kr. So there's a lot that falls out in relation to delivering well-being. It is such that the Party of Progress is primarily a party for the reduction of taxes. They spend more money than we do, and then they redispatch. They include: 8 B.C.E. kr from assistance, and then they have a very special sea billing staff, which makes it possible to determine that the dynamic effect of tax relief will be 6,4 billion. kr – notice that there is something behind the decimal point. How it's possible to figure that out, I don't understand. But in addition, they manage, at least by different forms of acrobatics, to arrive at a tax haven of 19.5 billion. kr. Then I am not impressed that they have only one billion more than us to distribute to the care of the elderly, when they have so much money at their disposal. That is why I dare to state that they are not really so concerned with the care of the elderly. They're ten times so busy with tax credits if we say there's 2 billion. NOK there – ten times so occupied with tax credits. It is even almost three times as important to reduce the car charge. The extra billion compared to the scheme we have is what they're going to put down the tax on alcohol and tobacco. So then we see about how much punch there is in this senior effort. So this with offers: it's quite amazing that these tender lots take so little consequence that tenders make some lose. Then it's also very strange that when we point in alternative ways to do this in our remarks, neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party, nor the Christian People's Party, are there. Then we'll be left alone, red-green, for example. points to purchases during negotiations as an alternative. So I need a more detailed explanation of what really is the right-hand side solution. Do they intend to stop tenders, or what kind of thing is this about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2422	The next speaker is Bent Höie. Then it is possible that Hagebakken will receive an answer to the question he asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2425	First of all, the representative Hagebakken is so impressed with Højre's health policy that he has to take the Danish boat and travel to Denmark to make a startling picture of the consequences of our policy. It would have been much easier if the Hagebaken had just gone back and looked at the results of the Right Health Policy when the Right put in government, because then the white hospital cows went down with 70,000 patients, and the waiting time went down. While under his own government health cows have increased more, with 77 000 patients, and waiting time has increased. There is no need to travel to Denmark, but if he first travels there, he can also say that the health regions where the elected representatives govern, such that the examples of Hagebakken are good examples from the red health regions of Denmark. In Denmark, for example, the civilised regions of health have been overthrown. the southern health region, balances and has reduced the waiting time and waiting lists because they have had extensive cooperation with private people, unlike, as the Danish Minister for Civilian Health says, the capital region, where the red people have ideological barriers to cooperation with private people, thus increasing both the queues and the deficit. Does it sound familiar? When it comes to using tenders, the Right is for it, but we are not for using bids with blindfolds, as the red-green government allows health businesses to do. For example, when you say that quality should apply to 70 pst. and price 30 pst., and then you can only assume that everyone who has submitted a tender has satisfied quality. So it's just the price that applies anyway. Or, as you do in health services, when you make offers from NPISHs in the case of drugs; you give one big organisation the whole offer, and thus erase the diversity and freedom of choice for drug users. It is, in my opinion, a tender with bindings for the eyes, and that is what the red-green government stands for. It is actually possible to govern politically rationally and within a tendering system if you are willing to govern, but it is obviously not this government and not least this health minister, who is therefore more a system defence minister than a health minister. Are Health has obviously not recorded the consequences of the Red-Green government's own policy when he accuses us of pursuing a policy where the wallet means more in healthcare. There has been an increase in the sale of private health insurance by 136 p.m. under this government, and there are several, not fewer, who today buy themselves out of the health queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2438	Several people have thought about it in their posts, that in the years to come, we will get many more older, and thus the need to recruit enough warm hands to care for all those who need care. In my post, I want to take on board an area that I think will be able to make a positive contribution in terms of the need for more hands in the care service, and that is the use of technology in the care service. Caring technology can never replace warm hands, but care technology can help make enough hot hands. A lot of people claim that there's nothing here either, but a boat and a boat. I tend to agree with that. Modern, yet proven technology, can and will be a strong contributor to achieving more people living at home. In January 2009, the Technology Council published the report «Care Policy and New Technology». The conclusions are clear here: the use of so-called care technologies and smarthouse solutions will increase quality and productivity in care services. St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006 points to opportunities of care technology for home-dwelling caregivers, but I am left with the impression that it may not have been properly followed up. This may be because there are few or no support schemes or other incentives to increase the use of home-based care technologies. There is no doubt that the wave of old age requires a dramatic shift in today’s care services, and that it will require a new and perhaps more bold financial investment from the authorities — a bet that can act as animals in the short term but that can pay off over time. Several claim that the use of care technologies can make older people live on average longer at home, which in turn will help to save large amounts of money for the public. The alternative to living at home is usually to move to an institution. In other words, it's a lot of money to make, and therefore I'm very pleased that a joint committee expresses the same thing, and that in its attitude they focus on the possibilities that are in use of new technologies in order to provide users with the best possible security and to be able to make the most of society's resources. I'm recording that the committee is impatient, and that's good. We are many who look forward to the government-appointed committee presenting their assessments and suggestions on how to meet tomorrow's care challenges. I will end by repeating myself: care technology can never replace the warm hands, but care technology can help make it enough hot hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2461	I must say I am somewhat surprised at the government parties in terms of the rhetoric in this debate. Some of the Workers' Party boasts that they will continue to cooperate with the private sector, while others, in turn, are almost distancing themselves from the private hospitals and rehabilitation institutions and are almost accusing them of being snouts in the community. The question could then be: is this also the case with the private doctors? The representative Wenche Olsen of the Workers' Party says that the right is the ‘privatisation party over some’. Privatisation means that people have to pay their health services themselves. What the Right wants is that private providers also have to get away with, and that the State pays to bring down the health cows. There's something completely different, and that of course knows the Working Party. They only have a strong need to resort to vulgar rhetoric to mitigate what is the real challenge in the health system. I note that the government parties think it is better for people to stand in public health cows than for private people to help reduce the queues and waiting times for the public to pay. It is perhaps this ideology that makes the representative Health and the red-green so enthusiastic and proud and happy. So they're more concerned with defending the system than with ensuring that individuals are treated. In fact, the red-green government has created classified health services, when more and more people have to pay for treatment because public health services fail. The sale of private health insurance has exploded. It's actually increased by 178 pst. under this Government. Private hospitals report a record in the number of patients who pay the treatment themselves. In addition, if employers want to help their employees for rapid treatment, that is a positive thing, we think. The most important thing is that people get healthy, and not that as much as possible in a public health queue. The red-greens require a high tax first. Then they can't deliver healthcare when the patient needs it, and at the top of it all, they send the tax bill to those who themselves provide health care. This is double unsocial. No, the government parties have messed up in an ideological miscarriage that affects patients in the form of increased waiting times and increased health cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2474	There has been a searchlight on the care of the elderly and the development of nursing homes. In this state budget, this government is proposing 222 million. SEK to 2000 new hospital and care places. There is then a question mark that we are not able to have full coverage. In today's online edition of the Address Paper, Rita Ottervik, who is rapporteur in the red-green town of Trondheim, says that in 2011 Trondheim promises full hospital coverage. Trondheim was the first big city with 100 pst. child-care coverage. Now it's also the first city that promises 100 pst. health care coverage. How is it then possible for a red-green city to satisfy both child care coverage and health care coverage, while in Oslo it is not possible? Is this about political priorities, or is it about political will to implement a policy on behalf of the Community? That's what this is all about. And when we see that some cities get it, and some cities don't get it, we have to ask the questions: why doesn't Oslo get it? Who's in charge of Oslo today? In terms of the structural debate in the health sector, there is also much to say. The action that was here yesterday was an important, popular and good action that is committed to local democracy. We have also had many such structural debates. We remember the 1991 HVPU reform, where the large central institutions were decentralised to the municipalities in order to provide better health services. We have had the Roadmap for Mental Health, where the major central institutions are largely replaced by local DPS centres. Now that we have a local hospital debate, it's not about closure, but it's about giving an offer that's better for people where they live, through the cooperation reform. I was at Røro's hospital last Sunday, a hospital that has been threatened many times. There they are building two new operating rooms, the future operating rooms, which will provide a new content, a new offer to a wider population in Røros and in the mountain region. So here it's about looking at what the population in that region needs, and how we're going to adapt it, so that the quality of healthcare is best for those who live there. That is what this is all about in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2487	First to the representative Hagebakken, who obviously, also from the exchange of words, does not understand the difference in earmarked and free means, and especially not the means given as a lump sum. I understood from the question I had about the municipality of Gjøvik that he does not understand the model that KS has calculated, that the free billion would only amount to 12 kroner per capita. The Gjøviks 28 800 inhabitants had to give the sum to Gjøvik – provided that the Hagebaken will not tear off this one-off sum of operations immediately, but that is the case. Then he says that we don't bet on parental care, that we only have 1 billion. kr more for care of the elderly than for the government. Then I'll ask Hagebakken to read the budget one more time. We're now in the process of squandering, and that's where they're picking up their free billion. That billion we've also arranged for, in terms of increased rates in lucky days' places. We have 1 billion. kr in the municipal budget for the free income of the municipalities, which we also refer to will strengthen the care of the elderly. We have 2 billion. I don't care about the elderly, and we have 2 billion. to the specialist health service, which will also benefit older people in need of specialist health care. In addition, we spend formidable sums on rehabilitation and habilitation, which older people will also benefit from. There must be a mistake with the calculator for the Hage Tray if this would only be 1 billion. I would also like to take the floor with regard to the Hospital Østfold. I am also glad today that we now have a new Eastern Hospital. I was one of them, the tens of thousands, who in 1989 stood in the streets to preserve the local hospital in Sarpsborg. For many years I have witnessed broken election vows. I have witnessed that the Workers' Party has driven hospital changes by removing functions, taking them away one by one, putting down good professional environments, completely without meaning, but almost as a hand-to-mouth policy. There were major problems in recruiting and retaining skilled labour – I now see parallels to what is happening in the whole country. Finally, we had no choice in Eastfold. There was no way back. We got a cross-political collection that we now had to have a hospital, so that we could have a satisfactory offer. Of course, we are happy about that. That the hospital might be too small, and that there is still a shared solution, we are not satisfied with. I'm already seeing, before you put the spade in the ground, that you might want to start removing functions. Car surgery is the one that is now under threat at the Hospital Eastfold. I would strongly warn against removing it. I think it's time we got a complete plan within Health South-East for functional division, that you see this in a context, rather than once again picking away bits for pieces from our hospital system. It is necessary to see these different specialities in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2498	The main objective of good health is that everyone has meaningful working days, that those who can work get a chance to do so, and that those who for some reason are unable to participate in the labour market get a daily life of meaningful activity. Work is also an important and effective tool within the health budget. Being outside the labour market can have many reasons. For some, disability and unemployment are reproduced over generations. It's important to break this pattern. Early intervention is essential. I am particularly pleased that this government has placed children and relatives on the agenda through legislation and in cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Children's Best at Sørlanden Hospital, Fangers Family Association, Adults for Children, Alarm and several other institutions and organisations focus on this after political pressure. The Danish government will use Norway as a template when drawing up guidelines for health professionals in the meeting with relatives. On the other hand, it worries me when I read that hospitals give priority to the resources. Hospitals shall also fulfil a social mission. It is important that they assume this responsibility. There are clear signs that social health differences need to be balanced. Here one has to bring these debates into the hospital boards and find arrangements, so that there is systematic work to balance social differences even within the hospital structure. The interaction reform and changes in the hospital structure are linked. They cannot be detached. It is gratifying to hear from Eastfold that good changes have been made to help those in need of treatment, because all the changes in healthcare are creating better treatment for users. In Agder, there are also challenges. But I want to commend the trust and management of the hospital board for having taken care of them, and that now it seems that the interaction is now getting better. There's a lot going on. In the Lister region and in Knutepunkt Sørlanden, an overall cooperation body has agreed in principle on how to address the different challenges, both in municipalities and in hospitals, and get good cooperation arrangements. Even a project has been launched where one has a common job position bank to increase the proportion of jobs between the hospital and the municipality. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the follow-up to the report of the Stoltenberg Committee. It is gratifying that a person will make his own message about drug treatment and drug treatment. In Kristiansand, an exciting project for the rehabilitation of drug addicts, modelled on Italy, has now been launched. For some of the most outpatient drug addicts, the Stoltenberg Committee has pointed to some proposals for solutions. They question whether punishment alone has a desired effect. This is a debate which I assume both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health will address when you come up with the alert.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2513	You can always believe that the National Assembly is in charge of the specialist health service. That's not the case. The government has it. It's up to the Council of State. The community health service gives us hope and faith that the municipalities are in control. As for what has been called for for a long time by the Right, a national operational health plan that takes back the political governance of both the health sector and healthcare in Norway, we are very pleased that there is a political majority also for that position. We need to take back political leadership. It's not in this room, although it sounds like this in many articles I've heard here today. With regionalisation, we have added that to the Council of State, and the government, and it is also the only one that regional health companies know about. What's happening now is that the specialized part of the health sector bit by bit, without plan, is torn apart. The last morbidity plan I remember came in the 1970s. When there is no operational national health plan with a political mandate, there will also be uncertainty. We saw that yesterday. Insecurity is great in Eastfold, in Sogn and Fjordane, in West Agder, in East Agder, in More and Romesdal – all the states are affected. I know the loop at the hall. As a hospital director for nearly seven years, I was responsible for terminating the maternity wards. It started with maternity wards – from five to two to one. Then the emergency surgery went, from five to three to two to one – one hospital. So acute internal medicine went – and so it was also together. And back at the local hospitals, which were no longer hospitals, were the behavioral subjects of child and youth psychiatry, adult psychiatry and social outpatient clinics. This took place ten years before any of these decisions to wind up the maternity wards in the first round were taken. Then the trade unions were depleted, and the recruitment was difficult. What's happening now is a further dismantling of what was supposed to be complete hospitals. What is a complete hospital? As difficult as simple, i.e. the need to accept acute cases, to process and/or stabilise for retransmission, and to deal with complications. If you start disassembling what you're doing now with the surgery around, then the insecurity will continue – a bit by bit without a national operational plan. The clear expectation of the Council of State and the government is that it will take political leadership and come up with an operational national health plan. This means that there is no need for regional health businesses. Health companies around are so large that you can accept the order and have an order/executive organisation. But the political leadership lies with the government, and it is demanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2528	I really want to remind the Storting about a matter, because there are several people who have been involved in the demonstration that was yesterday. It stemmed from the regional food supply plans. And who has asked for regional food supply plans to be drawn up? Well, it was actually the Storting during the treatment of the birth and maternity care message A happy event. Then Stortinget concluded that regional plans for the supply of food were to be drawn up in all regions of Norway. And all the parties, as far as I know, were behind it. You just have to know why that work was started. And then you might disagree with health companies, or you might disagree with what's going to happen, but you actually have to admit that this is a result of the treatment that the Storting had in connection with that message. Then I hear that Ingerd Schou demands political leadership, and she mentions as an example car surgery. It's actually also the way that a lot of people and also the representative Schou know that there's no way to do any treatment anywhere. Then an assessment of where to do different types of treatment must be made. I don't want to get into it right now. Furthermore, I just want to tell the representative Per Arne Olsen that I appreciate him quoting me, but he has to quote me correctly. I have not said that not all local hospitals need a food supply, but I have said that they do not necessarily have a food supply at all local hospitals – without deciding where to provide food now. During the first speech to the head of the Health and Care Committee, I agreed very much on what was said about quality. But then he went up once the number. 2 and talked about the Right Health Policy and the waiting times that went down. That's actually true – the waiting times went down, but the deficit went into the weather. It went up to 2 billion. kr. It's also part of that story, and in order for us to be able to work with quality, it's actually important that there is a balance in the accounts. So I'm going to cheer up the Progress Party a little bit with some good numbers that are also about waiting time and treatment. I just want to say that I'm happy, and I'm sure the rest of the Storting also does, because the waiting time for drug treatment is reduced by six days, and that the drug treatment has actually increased by over 30 pst. from 2005 to 2009. So there are more people who get help, and they are now waiting shorter – even if we want them to wait even shorter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2541	I get to thank you for that encouragement. It is possible that I did not quote quite correctly, but the arc of those who heard yesterday gave a certain impression of how you perceived the answer. It was the representative of Hagebakken's three minutes with a pathos that made me react. He usually talks with patos and great joy about the policies of the Progress Party, and it is in many ways understandable that he does not have the same pathos and joy when discussing and producing the Labour Party's policies. But when he gets to stand here and say that it's the Progress Party that blackpaints the situation, as if there's nothing wrong out there, it's almost like you have to ask if neither TV, newspapers or radio have come to Gjøvik yet. You shouldn't have followed a lot, or been a lot outside this hall, to realize that there's a lot to get into. When he then says that the Progress Party is not concerned with the care of the elderly, and he comes with an amount to establish it – an amount that is otherwise incorrect and that is corrected by the representative Gåsvatn – he has thus received a different sound than before. In the past, we have been criticised for spending too much money. Now he's at least come to the realization that we're using more -- now we're just not using enough. But we're going to take that signal with us. That the representative Hagebakken has not understood anything particularly about dynamic effects, we might not have expected. But for the sake of order, I would just like to point out that it is the Prime Minister's former job, the SSB, that has calculated the dynamic effects of the Progress Party. But it's done after he ended up there. I would like to comment briefly on the claim that the Advance Party and the other bourgeois parties are not so happy in tenders when someone loses their bid. That's not right. What is true is that we react when tenders are used in a way to get rid of competitors, that tenders are made in a way that does not give you the offer that customers, patients, demand. One might have reason to believe that has happened in the case of e.g. Oslo Hospital. At the end of the day, I must also be brief about the representative Toppe, who is in this Chamber and says that it is the responsibility of the Progress Party because in 2003 a company model was voted for, as the Progress Party emphasised was the first step on something that would bring Health-Norway together into one kingdom. But that's the reason why the Center Party is currently in government and voting for local hospital closures. So having a business model is the reason why the Center Party is in government and is hiding behind the same reform. They say one thing in this room and something else outside this hall, but they're in government and they're doing something completely different, namely putting down a local hospital after a local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2554	The representative, Höie, talked about not having to go to Denmark to see how this private regime works. No, he's right – you can go to Oslo. I don't know if you're in Oslo dealing with what's called "directed tenders," but what's certain is that in the last few years, the number of ideal providers has fallen, and we've met with more people who say that this is difficult. Here you can't go with the gallop. In Oslo, which has been run by the Progress Party and the Right for seven years, eight hospitals have been exposed to competition, and there are plans to launch more people, as far as I know. The Progress Party does well have plans to outsource everything that is of a nursing home. So is it the female founder Gunda from Grorud who has been awarded the award here? No, it's not. All these hospitals are run by large, international groups, partly subsidiaries of groups that have addresses on Jersey and Guernsey and other places that you would like to call tax havens. How the profit you take out is used, and who gets it, nobody knows. Two and two are still not five – how to get the profits? Yes, among others. by paying significantly lower pension costs for private employees compared to government and non-profit institutions serving households. The Oslo City Council has estimated that, over a tendering period of six years, the difference in pension costs for a medium-sized nursing home is 35 million. kr. So that's how much lower pension costs have the commercial ones. It's not strange that you get the hit, and it might not be so strange that you pick up some surplus on it. Of course, that's the whole reason why the big groups go into what I think will become the inner fillet in the future, namely the care of the elderly. Have costs been reduced? No, you had a cost drive on the operation of a nursing home in Oslo. Have you had the waiting times down? No, it doesn't look like that, because no one really knows how many people are waiting, because you don't keep a list of those waiting. What the City Council has said is that the number of hospitalized places has fallen. The Progress Party Svenn Kristiansen spoke of 250 fewer hospitals. As I said, you don't have an overview of the need. Recent headlines in the media about the stopwatch and its likes, which have even caused Ingrid Espelid Hovig to go out, would suggest that everything is not as it should be in the care of the elderly in Oslo. I think there are also many other places you are not good either, but you should stop with the fairy tale that the waiting times are going to go down, it's going to be cheaper, and everyone gets room just to drop off commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2566	I have listened well in this debate, and I think the opposition has been surprisingly low. It seems that the opposition is disappointed to be surprisingly satisfied with the government's draft budget. I think it's actually fired very few verbal ointments that hit the flash next to the one we're looking for, but it's – maybe fortunately – some honourable exceptions. The representative of Kjønaas Kjos stated in his main post that the treatment queues in Norway are infinitely long – infinitely long? No, I think I have to be on another planet. The representative of Kjønaas Kjos also stated that there is a need for luck in the health care sector in Norway. I totally disagree with that. I think that if, after this debate, we had taken a journey around to the patients who are in one of our hospitals after getting a kidney, a new heart, or new lungs, they would also be of a different opinion. I also think the representative Hunter Gåsvatn is quite powerful when, at the end of his main post, he expresses that the government ‘walks with its back only into the future’. I guess this can be understood so that the government has been going backwards towards the future in terms of health policy for almost six years. I remember then that the Chief Speaker of the Right Committee, Bent Höie, opened his main post by saying – and I quote from memory – that Norway has one of the world's best health services. Then I understand that the Progress Party is becoming concerned. Because with such a sense of reality, that the government goes with its back towards the future, what kind of healthcare can this government not then create the day we turn around?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2575	I react that way both the SV and the Workers' Party are producing Oslo's care for the elderly. Schools, kindergartens, housing for disadvantaged and elderly care are just among Oslo’s priorities in the 2011 budget. The right does not want care managed by stopwatches; the older one must decide for himself what help and care they need. The City Council of Oslo shall use 2.2 billion. SEK in nursing homes and housing up to 2015. The red-greens have not suggested more money for this. Since 2007, the City Council has granted 405 million. kr extra in fresh money for the districts, among others. to care for the elderly. In addition, they have been compensated for the cost of wage and price increases and demographic changes. Ten out of fifteen metropolitan areas in Oslo are ruled by the red-green ones. They are responsible for the care services and probably have to sweep for their own door. Urban statistics show a decline of 169 hospital residents in the socialist-driven districts as of 31 December 2007 and as of 2009. During the same period, the civilly overthrown districts have used several places. In addition, the socialist districts have the highest rate of rejection of applications for sick leave. In 2009 they received 14.3 pst. by those who applied for a place in the socialist districts, against 11.2 pst. in the bourgeois parts of the city. When I read newspapers, I get the impression that the Oslo budget will rage most. That's not true. The fact that Oslo is tightening up something in the budget doesn't mean that the world is raging together. That means that Oslo's politicians ensure good welfare services, as well as freedom of action, even in the future, and it shows that it's the ability to rule the city. The free choice of home services in Oslo is a great success. 22.6 pst. has chosen a private supplier since its introduction in 2006. In 2011, we actually also get free user choice in home health care. Oslo thus receives the country's first free user choice in the entire home service. The feedback is very good. When I read in the newspapers about cuts in Oslo's budget, I don't remember at all. It's an exaggeration of dimensions. We're actually talking about a narrowing of the order of 0.5 pst. on an operating budget of 41 billion. kr. To present this as a crisis is not right. In Greece it is a crisis. In Ireland, there is a crisis. In Oslo, it's not a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2590	The red-greens still claim that private health insurance creates a classed healthcare service, and that the Right will give tax deductions for this. The right will primarily ensure that all patients can receive treatment at private clinics on behalf of the state. Then we will end up with only the rich can help themselves out of line, as it has become under the red-green government. It is the red-green government that creates a classed healthcare service, when more and more people have to pay for treatment themselves because public health services fail. It is worth stressing that the sale of private health insurance has exploded during this government. Private hospitals report a record in the number of patients who pay for treatment themselves. In addition, if employers want to help their workers with rapid treatment, the Right opinion is positive. I don't understand why the red-green government is so opposed to this. The most important thing is that people get healthy, not that they're in a public health queue. The red-greens require first high taxes. Then they won't be able to provide healthcare when patients need it. At the top of it all, they send a tax bill to those who themselves provide health care. This must be double unsocial. It is also worth noting that both health cows and waiting times have increased in the time of the Stoltenberg government. This shows the Health Directorate's own numbers. Rest addicts wait ten days more than two years ago. It is a mockery of the 277 416 people who are in a state of health – when the government parties say that it is not a problem. People in health queues experience unnecessary pains and problems in mastering everyday life and work. We believe that the health cows are unnecessary, they are unfair, and they are unsocial. We want to get people out of the health queue, into treatment, so they can get healthy as soon as possible and get the quality of life they have the right to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2601	Jorod Asphjell has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2604	I will go into an area that has not been debated so far in the debate. It's perhaps one of the greatest challenges we have for the health of the future, and it's about public health. In the HUNT studies – HUNT 1, HUNT 2 and HUNT 3 – we see that obesity is one of the main challenges for children, young people and adults in the future. This is a development we can't deal with out of. This is a development we need to address through a long-term, targeted and systematic work, with prevention tools. Good habits are instruments. Good habits such as physical activity and healthy diets need to change these developments, and this must be done in cooperation with other parties. Sugar, unhealthy food, tobacco and alcohol must be taxed much more heavily than we are doing today to keep up with this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2611	Tore Hagebakken has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2614	In Denmark, 59 pst. of those who make between 500000 kroner and 700000 kroner, health insurance paid by employers. 12 pst. of those who make less than 300,000, they do. This is unsocial. Otherwise, Gjøvik has exactly 5.9 million. kr extra this year – confirmed in the text message to the current rapporteur. The representative Vinje said there was a crisis in Greece and not in Oslo. I should like to agree with that: in that perspective, it is probably not quite a crisis in Norway either. That is why I think there should be limits to black paint on the part of the Progress Party. And to Olsen: I have TV – even color TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2625	The President assumes that color television has come to stay. Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2630	Although more patients are undergoing rehabilitation, fewer people are receiving a daily stay. Many rehabilitation institutions are now being phased out. This applies, for example: Salangen Helsehab. The rapporteur in the municipality of Salangen states that this would be dramatic in terms of the offer of the inhabitants of the Middle Troms, South Troms, Ofoten and the Western Sea. The nearest rehabilitation institution will be in Bodø and Tromsø, which means significantly increased travel distances and a drastic centralisation of important rehabilitation services in the region for many. It's this representative Knutsen boasts. Another example is Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre, which has run child rehabilitation. The action plan for the rehabilitation of children and young people shows that Health Nord has the lowest volume per capita of these services. Nevertheless, Health Nord will cut off the agreement with such services from Valnesfjord, although this offer has received the highest quality assessment. This affects, for example: children with cerebral paresis. Is it this government party that thinks is good rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2637	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the chairman of the committee, who was, in fact, clean enough to say that it was not so bad anyway. I think that's a confession we can all stand for. After all, Norway is doing quite well — especially when comparing it with other countries, such as Greece and others who are struggling very hard a day. I think that's a good starting point for the debate, and that might also be a reason why it hasn't completely taken off. Nevertheless, it is problematic to discuss the budget – the one major central debate of the year in this Chamber – and to measure things against each other. For what are we measuring against? Well, we're measuring the government parties' alternatives versus the opposition's alternatives. In that perspective, an analysis of what is the possible future scenario of a policy different from that pursued. That is not what the chairman of the committee did in a later article, namely to measure against Bondevik II, which is real. As of today, there is at least little to suggest that we have a center – right-wing government in 2013, or that this is the option. But it's a government that's on the right hand side of the right hand side. There's something completely new in Norwegian politics, which we haven't had since the war, that we're facing as a possible scenario. That is why it has been crucial for at least the Workers' Party in the financial debate and, to the extent that the trade-union debates discuss our policies against the alternative that can be seen through the alternative budgets. It's in that perspective that I think the calculation of e.g. Water before today is a little sought after. Because yes, it is well possible that the Advance Party has added 1 billion. extra eartag for the municipalities. But at the same time, when you say to remove the property tax, which is 14.3 billion. NOK, which then means NOK 8.9 billion. So it's going to be a deficit of SEK 7.9 billion. kr. That's what you have. Then I will challenge the Progress Party on one more thing: the Nest Leader of the Advance Party, Olsen, is standing here and saying that the SSB is doing good for the dynamic effects of their proposal. I would like to see that documentation, because when I talk to the SSB, they say they don't. It's a democratic problem when you can't deal with what you've had before in Stortinget, namely that the Ministry of Finance is counting on the different effects. It's been a long tradition that's now broken. At least you have to be able to provide the evidence, and when it's repeatedly claimed that the SSB is going well for 6.4 billion. kr in dynamic power, I'd like to see it – especially when the SSB itself says they don't. It is a rather difficult debate to have, when discussing assumptions and not realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2648	You should see that there are two pieces that are employed in the SSB – that's probably the reason. Health policy is one of the areas where local, regional and national policies are most easily confronted with their own policies. Giving good services to people in these fields, where they are the most vulnerable, is also one of the most important things we do. Then we have to look at our long, diverse country and see how to provide good services to everyone, and give everyone an opportunity to get the offer in different ways. The fact that only the public can provide good services seems like a mantra from the red-green. I think the alliance of large, heavy public sectors and close ties between the government parties and the employees' organisations here are making some strange impressions. As a local politician and rapporteur in a small municipality, I was involved in a major state effort to help young people with drug and psychiatry problems. Here I would probably like to add – perhaps to put on some praise later – that this was a red-green bet, and it went quite well. We had to do this with a combination of public and private actors. The initiative was so successful that the county council could travel around and use us as an example of how good local policies were pursued and good services provided. I am therefore a little surprised when I come into this room and hear all the dangers of using private operators in the care services. In my opinion, diversity is a prerequisite for providing good services across our diverse country. Many people assume that you move power and resources out to those who see the concrete need you have locally. Then the government has to look at the framework conditions for public and private. With private I have to get nuances – also ideal suppliers. Good framework conditions for these economic operators are long-term tendering and contract conditions, tax arrangements provide room for investment, and public procurement is so good at buying that it can offer good services to its inhabitants, no matter where you live. Finally, I would like to take a few lines. First to Tove Karoline Knutsen: If you're going to follow her logic, it's actually like asking a public hospital what it costs to be a nursing home – and then it's the fasit of these services, no matter where you live, no matter how many are there, no matter how big it is, and no matter what it's going to deliver. The principle of tendering is important for us to be fully sure that the public provides the best possible services for the funds allocated to them and to be managed. If the government is good buyers, it's not that close where they buy these services, only they know what to buy, and they get what to buy. Then I register that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen likes to use Oslo as an example of misery. I would like to remind you that it is quite possible to go to Tromsø and find bad examples of public service supplies, if that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2668	Actually, I have first a comment on the last article from the Council of State. I have a certain feeling that the Council of State is talking about what is now happening out there with food supplies, is something that the Storting has almost ordered her to carry out, and that unfortunately she has to do so. I think it's putting it a little bit on the top. Of course, Stortinget will have plans, and of course we agreed that we would have plans for food provision throughout the country. But we want them to be politically overthrown. We want them to be comprehensive and, not least, we want the plans that are now in place to be fully evaluated – which is what is missing today. I would like to recommend to the Council of State to ask the regional health companies that have received different plans to obtain impact assessments of the individual offers. Very familiar and from the signals I get, there are not very many of the cases. It is then clear that regional health companies should also be involved in the provision of food, together with the municipalities. It also joined the Storting. That's wise. But when the municipalities say that they really don't feel that they have been involved, when, according to the rapporteur, they stand outside here and protest, as yesterday, and they say to us in the Stortinget, at least some people have said it to me – let me take one example – that they were presented with three different proposals, 'take it or leave it', one of these you have to choose – that was the option that some of the municipalities got – then the municipalities don't feel that they have been involved in developing and evaluating solutions, nor has it been impact-examined. In fact, the municipalities do not agree with some places in what has emerged. Then my point is that there must be something wrong with the process, even though we all want investigations and suggestions for good solutions. Nor am I against changes in any way within both health companies, the offers and the division of tasks, etc., but it must be done in a good way, and it must be done in such a way as to create security. Many people have been presented with plans where they have no idea what food they are going to have in the next round, behind the next door. I think there's a lot of frustration. The fact that the process has not been good enough, I also think that the party leader of the Center Party, among others. in an article in Dagbladet yesterday together with the staging representative Kjersti Toppe, make very visible. That's my appeal point -- actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2679	Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2682	To the opposition: I actually think that there are very good care for the elderly both in Oslo, in Tromsø and elsewhere in the country, and then there is also a shortage everywhere. All I'm asking is that the Progress Party and the Right should stop talking about the heavenly excellence of the outpouring in dealing with people and care. There may be many other places, but not exactly there. So to the representative, Sjøli: There have been rounds in Health North where the rehabilitation services you are now buying correspond to the needs of the population. The spa in Tromsø is a very good rehabilitation institution that has now got more to do. The LHL centre in Skibotn has got more to do. Both of them have hot water basins, which we all demand, and which are important in training. Then we and I, to the representative Sjöli's briefing, have good contact with the Salang. I'm absolutely sure we should be able to find good solutions for exactly the rehabilitation skills that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2689	Bent Höie has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2692	I do not think this debate has been marked by the fact that the Right and the Progress Party have highlighted the excellence of the competitive outsourcing – on the contrary. We have underlined that this is an instrument that can be used, but that needs to be managed to the greatest extent. It is the Minister of Health who has highlighted the excellence of the system and is not willing to do anything, when the consequences of the system become negative, and the opposition has, on the contrary, made constructive proposals on how to govern this system and get the results that a person wants politically. So to Thomas Breen – and I thank you for the nice words: I think it's absolutely reason to show humility to all of us who are engaged in health policy, and to approach this topic with the starting point that we have one of the world's best health systems – which have its challenges – and always talk nice about the services that we have, because they're very good. But there's also reason to demand a greater degree of euphoria when one mentions other parties. When one tries to create a scare image of a blue-blue government, I mention that I have three years of experience negotiating this budget with the Advance Party and John I. Alvheim. To be quite clear: it wasn't unsocial cuts that were on the claim list; it was additions in important social areas from a party that also has a strong commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2699	First to Per Arne Olsen: We say the same in this Chamber as we say outside, that we should strengthen the political governance of the hospital sector. It shall take place through the national health and care plan, as also stated in the Soria Moria declaration. I can't do my best to take the Progress Party seriously in the local hospital criticism against the Center Party. The Progress Party had not finished agreeing with the business-economic thinking model when it comes to managing health services, before they turn their backs on and themselves are the leading critics. I'm actually very pleased that today we have a red-green government and not a government of the Right and the Advance Party. They're leading a billion-dollar tax policy, and this will lead to greater health inequalities in Norway. Together they will never take action to strengthen the people of Norway. Don't even add alcohol fees today support them. Right does not even the smallest and poorest little student in the base ball a free path. Rather, they give tax relief. During the Bondevik government we got a large increase in private hospitals, while the public hospital was starving. We've strengthened the hospital economy. We've fixed up in the split that was. We've done that because we have the money. During Bondevik II – as I think about it here – 8 000 new people in the municipalities came to health and school. We got 40,000 in the previous period. We got that because we have the money. If you were to write a prescription on a government and how to strengthen people's hearts, I would have prescribed them red-green. The Right Party and the Progress Party should have been counter-indicated because of the side effects. People's health in the population is linked to how society is organized. A society with the least possible differences provides better health for its population. That is what we, as health politicians, have to deal with, and that is where the opposition is so totally failing in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2714	I'll be brief. It really can't be that you can deliver from this pulpit that people from other political parties are as cold and as cool as this. It can't be that you want to spend money on children learning to read instead of eating a mandarin, is freezing cold and heartbroken. When it comes to the health debate, I don't know much about health policy, but I record from the farming industry that there's something called resistance. So you can over-medicate. In fact, I think we now see examples of the fact that the red-green clinic with only the public sector can soon be described as resistant. So, the medicine bounces off, the health providers can't stand penicillin. Penicillin doesn't work, and we don't get good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2723	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2731	We would then be ready to vote on the matter on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2739	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 9-14, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party 15-24, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 25, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 26, by Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right-wing proposal No. 27 and 28, from Kjell Ingolf Roppstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 29–32, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–28 is included in the position on pages 71–73, while proposals Nos. 29–32 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the left. Proposal No. 29 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in the daily allowance regulation § 6-6 in order to maintain the daily allowance rights from 40 per cent to 20 per cent.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rules on rolling leave so that the enterprise where there is agreement between employees and employers pays only the employer’s period for the number of posts actually allowed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2787	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the prompt introduction of standard health notification periods according to the Swedish model.’ The right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2804	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present an obliging escalation plan in the context of the revised national budget in order to strengthen the social rights of self-employed persons.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2821	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27 and 28, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up and submit a proposal entitled to 100 pst. the coverage of the salary of the population during the period after 12 weeks is conditional upon the holding of the dialogue meeting after 12 weeks and the submission of a report on this subject to the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. If the condition is not met, the employer is charged with a liability of 10 pst. during this period, until the dialogue meeting is held. In cases where the dialogue meeting is clearly unnecessary, this requirement shall be disregarded.’;» Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up and submit a proposal entitled to 100 pst. the coverage of the salary of the population during the period after the 6th month is conditional on the employee attending the dialogue meeting after the 6th month, or the employee having made the Staff Regulations aware that the convening of the meeting has not been received within a specified period. If the condition is not met, the employee is required to be liable for contribution of 10 pst. during this period, until the dialogue meeting is held with the employee’s presence. In cases where the dialogue meeting is clearly unnecessary, this requirement shall be disregarded.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2843	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for greater local governance in labour market policy, based on the models of task differentiation and with the experience of the task differentiation test in the Municipality of Oslo.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2860	There is a vote on proposal No. 25 from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a systematic review of the use of sanctions in relation to day-care allowances in the case of unemployment, with a view to making greater use of the mobility criterion.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2877	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-24, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 15 June 2001 that no one loses the ability to earn pension points in the social security system is followed up and implemented.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the work performance assessment becomes effective for all those in pre-employment.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a selection with a mandate to review the merger of the Petroleum and Labour Inspectorate. The aggregation shall be carried out within three years.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to make necessary changes to the pension scheme in the context of the government budget for 2012 so that the additional performance rate of 1,05 pst. provided by the State, to those entitled to the AFP in the private sector, to all irrespective of whether or not they are covered by the AFP agreement.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes concerning aid schemes for the purchase of wigs/hair replacement, so that the age limit for the reduction of reimbursement is increased from 18 to 23 years.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review current rates for wig/hair replacement purchases and to submit them in the context of a revised national budget for 2011.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate the real reason why fewer employers are applying for grants for work organisation and to ensure that employers are aware of the means of preventing exclusion and exclusion from the labour market.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to postpone the implementation of the pension reform until, among other things, a new disability pension, permanent legislation on short-term benefits and the relationship to old age pension have been clarified.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised National Budget for 2011, to present a separate case on the Gravewood Aid, where a complete review of the scheme is carried out.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2935	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to convert municipal social assistance into a state responsibility under Nav and to introduce norms similar across the country.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2952	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9, 13 and 14, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that jobs for people with disabilities are organised on the basis of support schemes funded by Nav.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set a time limit as soon as possible for all films and all television broadcasts to be texted for hearing-impaired purposes.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case in relation to the revised national budget for 2011 with proposals for amendments and improvements to the provisions on driving distance and buy-back time for social security vehicles from 2012.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e2979	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-12, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that information addressed to the public is included in the term physical aspects of the Discrimination and Availability Act § 9 Obligation to general organisation.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that information and communication technologies in working life and education are covered by the Discrimination and Accessibility Act § 9 Obligation for general organisation [[ICT]] [[universal layout]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that universal design requirements are incorporated into public tenders.» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e3009	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5 and 8, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a system that allows users in very special cases to change their Nav office.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how users can be given the opportunity to exchange case handlers in the Labour and Welfare Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to establish methodological tools for measuring the impact of labour market measures. Impact measurement should include information on transfer to ordinary work after completion of the action and whether a former measure participant remains in work after three and five years respectively.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the system of travel at work and education be transformed into a permanent system of social security.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the scheme of assistants be converted into a permanent system of popular security.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to file a case with a view to lifting the ceiling for reading and writing aids for the blind and partially sighted.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e3054	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the organisation and funding of a service dog as a tool for PRM in line with a guide dog for the blind in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with an adjustment to the level of the basic aid in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5667	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against. The voting boards showed that 53 votes were cast against and 51 votes in favour of the Committee's vote. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18:19:34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5676	Let's try it again. The voting boards showed that 52 votes against and 52 votes against were cast. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18:20:34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5686	I guess this isn't entirely in line with what should probably be the result. We have to check if there is anything wrong with the voting system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5689	Can we take our vote again and prepare the voting theme very clearly?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5694	There has been a request for us to clarify the voting theme once more, and I refer to: Framework area 7 with I and even IX is addressed to voting. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5706	I voted in favour, but on the screen it turns out that I have voted against, and I like that badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5712	Then we noticed the Haugen challenge of getting the result fixed on the screen. We'll check that out a little bit later. A message has appeared on my screen: See the error message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5793	It is put to the vote on the proposals of the Progress Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 2 December 2010. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. 72 L):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5812	It is put to the vote on the proposals of the Progress Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 2 December 2010. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. 72 L):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5831	It is put to the vote on the proposals of the Progress Party made at the Stortinget meeting on 2 December 2010. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. 72 L):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5850	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1-10, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 11, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, proposals No. 12–15, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12–15, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a national hospital plan by the end of 2011.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the 2012 government budget to ensure that Dissimili’s Centre of Culture and Competences is provided with predictable and good financial framework conditions through the creation of a separate State budget entry.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised National Budget for 2011, to consider increased grants to the Norwegian Patient Association in order to maintain operations.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess another financing model for Norwegian health network so that municipalities do not charge an annual membership fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5894	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose to increase the effort-driven funding to 50 per cent in the 2012 government budget proposal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e5909	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. The left has announced their support for the proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify the reasons for the high incidence of drug treatment for ADD/ADHD and to analyse why there is so much variation in the order of magnitude.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the establishment of a grant scheme that stimulates municipalities to associate with persons with a clinical nutritional competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government of all hospital children’s wards to set up posts for advisers to have a coordinating and advisory function for families who are waiting for or having a disabled child.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to help municipalities establish positions for coordinators for families with children in need of complex services because of disability.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the project of the Federal Republic of Sweden at Oslo University Hospital is continued and evaluated.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the educational capacity of midwives.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the ISF reimbursement for physiotherapy services in the specialist health service in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a separate grant scheme for the construction and operation of hospice in Norway by 1 June 2011.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps as soon as possible to recruit and retain scientific staff at the odontological training centres.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a cause for the Storting in the spring of 2011, which deals with the future strategy for pharmaceutical policy in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e8359	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-07.ana.ud1656e8380	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
