ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e187	The called alternate of Sogn and Fjordane counties, Anette Stegejeddet Norberg, has now taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e206	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee deals with the budgetary context of the Royal House, the Stortinget, the Defence Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of the Administration – or the Civil Ombudsman – of the Grand Council for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service – the EOS Committee and the National Audit Office. Nor in 2011 have significant changes been proposed in the apanage of the royal family. However, the Committee has noted that the royal house has many cultural treasures in stock, which therefore do not appear to the public. Several of these cultural taxes may deserve a different fate than being in stock, so the Committee proposes that the government consider the possibility of creating an exhibition and a possible museum to make these cultural taxes available to the public. The budget for the Storting is essentially a continuation of the previous year’s level with the exception of item 45, which relates to major equipment acquisitions and maintenance. The entry has been increased by more than 50 pst., with a background in planned projects for the rehabilitation of the building mass of the Storting and the upgrading and replacement of technical infrastructure. The budget of the Ombudsman of Defence is kept at about the same level as last year and the work on the renewal and upgrade of electronic equipment continues. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for administration has a great deal of appeals from citizens. The primary task of the Civil Ombudsman is to monitor that there is no injustice or error against the citizens of the State of the public administration. It is also important for the Civil Ombudsman to maintain a high level of activity in relation to external activities. The appropriations allocated to the Civil Ombudsman have been proposed to increase slightly, mainly in order to continue to provide the Civil Ombudsman with sufficient resources to carry out control, follow-up, organisation and outreach activities. The Committee has stressed that the allocation should be sufficient to carry out the tasks and priorities of the Committee during the examination of the Civil Ombudsman’s Annual Report for 2009. The size control committee for intelligence, surveillance and security services has a very wide field of work. It controls both the civil and military intelligence and security services. The EOS Committee needs to continue to invest in ICT equipment, while noting that over time, the EOS Committee will need to strengthen its staff, in particular in order to ensure competence in relation to new technological challenges. The EOS Committee, in its own request to the Stortinget, requested an additional allocation of 1.5 million. In addition to the proposal for the budget, the committee was included in our agenda. The background is that the sample will enter and examine the methodology used in the Treholt case. For unknown reasons, the letter was not forwarded internally to the Financial Committee in the Stortingen before the appointment of the Financial Committee was given. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has therefore had to find cover for the increase within its own framework. The allocation to the EOS Committee has thus been proposed to be increased by 1.5 million. D during the Committee's proceedings. The appropriations for the National Audit Office have been proposed to be increased by 40.2 million. kr in relation to the 2009 budget. That's 1.5 million. kr less than proposed by the government. However, the increase in the Riksrevision appears to be relatively large, and one assumes that the reduced growth will not adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Office plays an important role as the Supervisory Body of the Storting and the National Audit Office reports are important for the follow-up of control responsibilities to the Executive Authority by the Storting. The Committee's position is unanimous, but both the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have some specific comments. The Progress Party refers to the financial position in which the party proposed a cut in the allocations for group aid of 30 million. kr. The right has, on its side, referred to the financial position, where the party proposes to reduce public administration and bureaucracy, inter alia. with a cut of 15 million. kr in the operating budget of Stortingen and 15 mill. kr in the budget of the National Audit Office. The left has referred to its proposals in the financial position, where they propose a 20 million reduction in the Storting budget. kr in the entry for major equipment acquisitions and maintenance. To the extent that there is a need for further comments or reasons, I assume that the respective parties themselves present those views. In addition to these comments, the opinion of the Committee is unanimous and with it presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e227	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e243	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e252	This Communication addresses proposals for changes to the division of labour between state institutions in the field of archives, libraries and museums. This was mentioned in the debate on St.meld. No 49 for 2008-2009, Future Museum, 2 March this year. The starting point was when the leaders asked the library message, where questions were asked as to whether closer coordination of library tasks would be appropriate between the National Library and ABM development, or whether transferring library tasks from ABM development to the National Library could be a solution. The library message suggested that the leadership of ABM development has been too unclear, that the tension in the activities has been too large, and that the added value of the archive, library and museum fields has been unclear. The main challenge in the future was to implement the types of measures that would give rise to developments that were both sectorally professionally developing and that also promoted interaction and coordination where desired. Furthermore, the focus was on working on common challenges, not least on the digital side. At the same time, it was necessary to clarify responsibilities and roles at State level. During the period following the processing of the library message, discussions have been ongoing between interested parties on the library tasks. It has been concluded that library tasks will be grouped in the National Library. Furthermore, tasks related to consortium agreements will be transferred to the Norwegian Science Index, a planned body under the Ministry of Knowledge. As a consequence, it became natural to ask questions about how the rest of the ABM development tasks should be carried out, which is also the basis for us to deal with this big business message here today. Furthermore, the recommendations of the government in this Communication are to co-organise the remaining part of ABM development with the Norwegian Cultural Council, i.e. the museum and archives section. The Committee endorses the government's proposal for a reorganisation within the ABM field, but there are shades in the approaches to this position between the opposition and the government parties. I assume that those representatives of the opposition who speak in this matter will explain the positions of their parties. As mentioned, this means that the National Library will take over the library tasks that ABM has had. This task assignment will clarify roles and responsibilities at State level and ensure the advancement of key development tasks facing the library sector. There is reason to clarify that it is assumed that the National Library has both a development responsibility and an overall responsibility for both public libraries and academic and research libraries. In parallel, there has been work to develop a new regulatory framework for the Norwegian Cultural Council aimed at clarifying the relationship between the Culture Council as a professional autonomous and collegial body providing project support from the Culture Fund and the administration of the Culture Council as a separate administrative body governed by the Ministry with delegated management tasks in addition to secretariat functions. The Cultural Council and ABM development have partly common subjects of cultural protection. The professional competence of the Culture Council administration is related to and will complement the competence of ABM development. The majority support the government in their assessment that it is both professional and organisational in order to co-organise the museum and archive tasks from ABM development with the administration of the Norwegian Cultural Council. It will provide a good basis for further development of a stronger professional environment and strengthen management and advice in the field of culture. The majority would therefore stress that, when the Norwegian Cultural Council is now also to take responsibility for contributing to the development of the new tasks being assigned, the college body must be given broader competences in the new areas. Such competence should be anchored both within the administration and – not least – within the governing bodies. Furthermore, it is important to clarify that there will be a need for new basic documents and that a new strategy for the Norwegian Cultural Council should also be drawn up in order to safeguard the extended area of responsibility. The majority will also clarify that it is very important for employees from previous ABM development to continue their efforts to ensure the objective of further developing a strong professional environment and strengthening management and advice in the areas now transferred to the Norwegian Cultural Council. Finally, I would like to congratulate all interested parties on this reorganization.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e275	The Christian People's Party does not disagree with the organisational approaches proposed in the communication. We also see that they can work positive for the field. Among other things, the Cultural Council and ABM development have partly shared disciplines, and the professional competence of the Cultural Council’s administration can complement the competence of ABM development. The Christian People's Party agrees that both professionally and organisationally there can be opportunities to coordinate the remaining part of ABM development with the administration of the Council of Culture. It should be able to contribute to the further development of a stronger professional environment and to strengthen management and advice in the field of culture, as explained by the government in its communication. However, the Christian People's Party is critical of the process and the way the matter has been handled in relation to the Stortinget. The amendments mainly come into force from the turn of the year. The positions have moved, and the conversion process is in full progress, without the Storting having dealt with the matter. The notification was also sent to Stortinget at a time when Stortinget’s treatment was not relevant in the process. The Christian People's Party is therefore of the opinion that the department and government should have anchored this matter in Stortinget at an earlier time, all the time ABM development was created in its time as a result of a thorough treatment in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party mainly supports the steps taken, based on the information made available by the government in the message. However, I will bring in the Council of State how important it is now to follow this field very closely. Not only must developments be followed closely, but we must ensure that the intentions behind the establishment of ABM development are respected and continued. We're not in the goal in that way. There is still a lot of work to be done. It applies in the field of archives, to libraries, and to the museum area. We have to assume that the reorganisation and the fact that ABM development is now shut down does not weaken the field, but that it is politically held a high pressure to ensure a development that is in line with the ambitions we have in all these fields. I note that there is a rather modest information from the government regarding governance documents for the future investment. I expect you to come back to Stortinget with more information, and, eventually, thorough evaluations, when you have experience of how the reorganisation turns out in practice. I think a number of issues will push forward as a result of a new structure. Given the involvement that Stortinget has historically had in the ABM field and ABM development, it would be wise to provide better political processes here than what we've seen this time. It would have strengthened the ABM field with a broad and good involvement of the Stortinget earlier in the process, it would have strengthened the public debate on the ABM field, and it would also serve and strengthen the field and the opportunities to succeed in the ambitions we have in all these three areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e288	The treatment of this matter has been widely thought about, and many have been skeptical. Many have felt that they have not been taken on board, and they have felt that their recordings have not come along. There has been no big debate in Stortinget. The debate now comes when most of it is determined and most of it is signed and made clear to a new Ministry of Culture, as I see it. The Council of State has not wanted to include, for example: The Museum Association on advice. I would like the Council of State to take the relevant parties on board when drawing a new map. And when the Culture Council grows out of its premises and is to enter new buildings and be co-located, all parties should be included on advice. I see the danger that we are now building a new bureaucratic cultural institution by giving more power to the Cultural Council and getting more hands and more heads in there. That was not where the Progress Party saw or wished for more hands, it was within the care of the elderly. In this case, the Progress Party has once again addressed this with the art – the art that is hidden, that is forgotten, that does not come out to the public, and that is not seen by the audience. We want the Council of State – as she has told her to do several times – to take this into account, to borrow art, to rent out art, to public institutions and private companies, so that art can become more visible to the public. I was in the Museum Federation. They have professionally recorded a lot of advice to the Council of State, but they do not feel that they have been heard. I feel that now is the time for all actors to join in the further debate when the Culture Council and the new organisation are to be established and made final. In the end, I would like to ask the Council of State if she can address this in her article with the co-location. Where should the Council of Culture now move – because I understand that they have grown out of their premises – and where has the Council of State found space for them in the centre of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e301	This matter has come to Stortinget a little, I would say, most liable from the government after the Council of State promised Stortinget this at the previous crossroads in this matter. I think it was when we dealt with the museum message, where some of us pointed out that the big questions were not presented to the Stortinget, while all the little ones we were going to have the pleasure of struggling with hundreds of pages. Now I'm not going to go up all of this again, but there's something I want to say to the council. To a government that I feel is quite arrogant about what you think it is necessary to present to the Storting, I would say that even if you have a majority and decide, there are some debates that can be useful to take. There are some lashings that it may be useful to get covered, and there are some issues that you might benefit from looking into, but that in this case you have not been taken into account or anchored in the Stortinget. First of all, is it a good idea to shut down ABM development? Yes, of course we can't discuss that now because it's already closed – that's a fact. But I want to say that in the light of the fact that the Norwegian Cultural Council is finally getting big enough, ABM development should be given a chance. They may not have delivered optimally in the years that have passed – it is very possible – but we have not been presented in this room with any basic material that tells us that it was a good idea to shut down ABM development. ABM development was based on an idea, it was more than just an organisational grip. It was actually an idea that archives, libraries and museums had some common challenges in the transition to a new digital age that meant that there was a common grip that could be interesting. All these fields will have to change quite a lot in the next few years, both in terms of method in-house and professional, and also in terms of communication with the audience. There could be opportunities for joint action here – the grip I cannot see is satisfactorily taken into account in a new system. Now the fields separate layers. Libraries go to the National Library, so archives and museums go into the Council of Culture. In fact, it is said that there should be some common meeting points – meeting places – in terms of digitisation, but the very idea of bringing these fields closer together, into some common contexts, later to be abandoned. So you add this to the Council of Culture and keep going where the line that we see a little bit in general, that fewer and fewer people recruited from relatively limited environments are going to decide over larger and larger parts of cultural life. It's a kind of power concentration that right doesn't like, but I don't spend any more time here because I think I'm talking for deaf ears. The second discussion that we have not received is whether the National Library is a suitable place to handle the entire library sector. At first sight, much can speak for it, in the sense that there is a large institution in the library field, which naturally has considerable competence and considerable resources. But we haven't been problematized by the cultural differences that lie between the traditions of the National Library and the traditions of the people's libraries. So the major concerns expressed in the public library sector have not come too far and have not been discussed in this context. The old problem with the goat and oat sack is like a fog all over the case. So that archives and museums are transferred to the Council of Culture. It could probably be solved. There's nothing wrong with building a good environment in the Cultural Council. I join the Advance Party's wish that the organisations in the area should be brought into this work. It is important that the Association of Museums is involved, it is important that the Landslag for private and local archives be involved, and it is important that the Board of Archives is involved. In this case, we consider whether that will be the case. We also see that the question of archiving is very little taken care of. I actually think I'm going to have to take the word one more time to say a little bit about it later. I'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e320	I record that there has been some concern in this matter, and I would like to say that there are certainly things that could have been handled in another way. But the most important thing now is that we look ahead and address the challenges facing the sector. The museum message presented last year has gained broad recognition in the museum environments. The debate has shown that there is a great deal of consensus about the fact that we need a varied museum landscape, and not least there is agreement on the professional challenges we have in the future. In recent years, museums have been through a comprehensive museum reform. Now we have to tackle the professional continuation of the Museum Reform. I see this message as part of that process. The museums are among the most visited cultural services in Norway. Visit numbers are growing, and we want to offer even more exciting museums because people in Norway deserve it. So the placement of the A and the M is not necessarily the most important thing. Organization is rarely an important goal in itself – it is most important that we have a powerful and operational cultural council, which can follow up the museum message in close cooperation with the museums and the Museums Association. From the point of view of the SV, the cultural school system is one of the most important and successful cultural policy interventions in recent years. The Secretariat of the Cultural School Bag is currently in ABM development. I believe that they can take advantage of the artistic competence of the Cultural Council. Then we can get a synergistic effect, which I've heard is a motto. There is a lot that is unclear about the organisation of the Cultural Council. For example, I record that there is little cultural protection competence, and I ask the Council of State to follow it up in consultation with the environment in the future. Finally, I would like to say that I agree with the reorganisation that is being done, and I note that the Museums Association, among others, is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e337	This week I have learned that when the issues are marked with blue on the screen in front of the storage representatives in the hall, it means that the issues are debated collectively. There are a lot of similarities between case No. Case No. 2 and Case No. 3 on today's map. What is really about is a government that is overrun by Parliament and sees no point in having a broad political consensus on big, important things in the cultural sector, nor does it seem that public debate is important nor does it believe that the public debate actually brings good arguments on the table for which action should be taken. What amazes me most in this matter is that the Labour Party in the government has such a fascinating little respect for employees in a system, that professionals actually have some knowledge that should be contributed to being part of a process. I sat here at Stortinget with many employees in this system who felt really overwhelmed, not respected and not taken care of in the process. That is really what this matter is all about. It is about overruning a system and not dealing properly with matters either with Parliament or with employees. So I think it's a cultural policy aspect that's quite important. When we're going to organize our hospitals, I'm concerned that we're going to have the best people together to do the best things. In the cultural sector, there's one more aspect, and it's that bringing together too much power in one place is actually scary because in the cultural sector, we should have some elements of power that balance each other. It should not be such that all power, control and control lie in one place. There should actually be some professional environments that challenge each other, that can discuss with each other, and that can open up debate. Striglet, one-sided cultural organisations that are not open to debate, which are strictly controlled, are a threat to our development as a cultural nation. In sum, what we've done lately, is to gather a huge amount of power in the National Library, which I think we need to have a review of and see if that's right. This does not only apply to this case. This applies, for example: all of our author's anniversary. Here, I think we're losing a lot of what could have been a voluntary commitment, what could have been an commitment to the local environment and people who feel ownership of our authors. Now we get a strangled, state-run celebration that doesn't engage in the same way that it could have done. This is one of the examples in all of the areas we have now moved to the National Library. We see that in the cultural sector – within areas by area – the power structures are strangled so much that we lose a lot on the road. We lose our commitment, and we lose the debate that can be held between two actors in one area. Therefore, the cultural area should be treated differently from many other policy areas – because the counter-power is needed. Culture itself is about opinions. That's why this is really about freedom of expression, the right to speak, the right to have a counter-debate, the right to have a debate in society. But that's what we're coming up with in the next case, an interpellation that's also about this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e352	In the library message, the government announced a review of the responsibility for public library tasks. The size supported this. The conversion of ABM development comes from this process. The members of the Committee from the opposition believe that the government has taken a decision without a thorough process of its employees and relevant professional environments. That's not true. After treating the library message by Storting, I started the dialogue with ABM development, the National Library and the Ministry of Knowledge. The goal was to solve state library tasks in the best possible way. This dialogue underpins the decision to pool all library tasks in the National Library. At the same time, it was agreed that consortia agreements should be transferred to the Cristin publication database, which is a planned body under the Ministry of Knowledge. The reason for the conversion is this: to clarify roles and responsibilities at state level. So I do not see, as the representative of Skei Grande, that the library sector is better managed by having two administrative bodies coordinating the libraries, unlike any other government. I am for the library sector to gain more power, and I believe that the libraries are getting stronger by bringing together the state library tasks within one governmental administration. It will also ensure the progress of the important development tasks facing the library sector, and I am thinking primarily of the digital sector. There has been a need for coordination here. We will thus help to strengthen the library's professional environment in the National Library and facilitate cooperation, coordination, both in relation to the university and higher education libraries, other professional libraries, institutes and the public library sector. The National Library shall have both a development responsibility and an overall responsibility for a comprehensive library sector. In order to ensure the possible use of resources, it is important that both public libraries and professional and research libraries are seen in the context. It is essential not to build structures in the university and higher education sectors leading to a two-fold division of responsibility. However, let me stress that it will still be the Ministry of Knowledge that is responsible for the libraries in the university and higher education sectors. The conversion does not involve a change in the division of responsibilities between the department and the library field. The responsibility now given to the National Library for the sector is the same as that of ABM development. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that the strategic and basic document for the responsibility of the National Library should have been discussed in the Communication. I believe it is important that the National Library itself develop a strategy for how the institution will perform state library tasks. It's about listening to the trade unions. This must be done in the right order and in cooperation with the parties concerned, i.e. that a process cannot be initiated until the actual reorganisation is effective. The National Library is now developing an internal organisation, main objectives and field of activity of the new organisation. All employees are involved. The Ministry follows this up in the governance dialogue with the National Library, and the basic document will then be adjusted. The transfer of ABM development library tasks to the National Library has updated the question of how the archive and museum field should be organised. The Government therefore proposes to work for a solution where this field is co-organised with the Administration of the Council of Culture from 1 January 2011. So when I first launched this as an alternative, it was from the staff in the archive and museum sector in ABM development, a direct proposal from those who have now submitted to the Storting in this message. The Cultural Council and ABM development have a partly common subject area in the field of cultural protection. The professional competence of the Council of Culture administration is related to, and will be able to complement, the competence of ABM development. In this way, we strengthen the archive and museum sectors. It is not that the Museum Association has been satisfied with the development of ABM as it has worked. I am convinced that the museum sector will be strengthened by coordinating the competences we have in the field of museum scientific development. The rest of the positions in ABM development are proposed for transfer to the Norwegian Cultural Council. This includes about 40 annual works, and there will be a need for some new basic documents and a new strategy for Norwegian Cultural Councils to fulfil this extended responsibilities. I believe that it is both professional and organisational in order to co-organise the remaining part of ABM development with the Norwegian Cultural Council administration. Such a solution provides a basis for further development of a stronger professional environment and will strengthen management and advice in the field of culture. We need strong actors in the cultural sector as culture becomes more and more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e373	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e376	I wrote that interested parties and employees were not included on advice. The council says, "Everybody's heard." It's something other than the signals we've been given. The parties also see that there is a danger of being swallowed by the powerful Cultural Council, a bastion of a Cultural Council. What does the Council of State think of that? What is the opinion of the Council of State that SV says there is concern in this matter, while the Council of State says that this has gone on the rails? I also took up my post: Will a new building be built that will stand as a monument after the Minister of Culture, after the co-location in this matter? Does the Council of State see a danger that the Council of Culture will become too powerful, too bureaucratic and an alternative to the Ministry of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e384	It is true that I want to strengthen the power of the Council of Culture, and that I want to do so in part at the expense of the Ministry of Culture. I mean, it's about the spread of power. The Culture Council, as a collegiate body, shall increasingly take decisions on a professional basis. I mean, it's about the spread of power, not power concentration. The Culture Council is now working on whether they will have a new building or whether they will continue to be where they are. It is not in this respect that I have put in some leadership to build something magnificent after me. As I know, there is no suggestion to build any new building. Yes, there has been disagreement within ABM development. Many of those who worked in the library sector did not want these changes. Conversion requires that employees be taken on board, but it is not that I or others can always promise employee benefits. So as far as the archival and museum sectors are concerned, it was on their own initiative that we transferred these tasks to the Norwegian Cultural Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e395	I was in my post saying that ABM-u was based on a vision that this was three disciplines that had benefited from each other, at a time when you went into a new everyday life. It is the digital age, when we see that the professional content, the way to work and the communication with the audience – at all – how these fields will be organized and worked – will change, simply because the technological tool is changing. The little indignation that at least I may have shown in this, is just about that I think this was a pretty good idea. And it was a fundamental idea for the policy of these three disciplines for ten years. In the rather economical documents we have received, I see very little about this. So I think, how does the Council of State think that this perspective should be taken into account during reorganization?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e402	I see, first of all, that those who work in the library sector would need to coordinate work on digitisation in terms of the ABM development library department and the National Library. There are also questions about what to do with the archives sector, whether it should go to the National Archives, or whether it should be coordinated with the museum sector. That's why I'm a little surprised that the Right proposes diffi. They're not responsible for private archives, just for public archives. And it would be to fragment what the representative was just about to want. I believe that we in the archive sector have major challenges, which are also pointed out by the minority. There is a balance in the library area which, in the archive sector, whether it is necessary to see it in cooperation with the museum sector, or whether to look at it in cooperation with the rest of those working in the archive sector. I believe that there were more and more overlapping responsibilities in the library sector – between the library department in ABM-u and the National Library. It was therefore appropriate to coordinate these.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e411	The archive, library and museum fields represent an important part of Norwegian cultural heritage and thus also a large part of Norwegian cultural policy. And they represent both the administration and the dissemination of important parts of the Norwegian cultural heritage. My question to the Council of State applies in so far as cultural policy in general, but in this case these fields in particular. Does the Council of State, in view of the interest and public debate on these important areas, see that important decisions can be justified through broad and good treatment in the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e418	The government is responsible for providing processes and proposals for the Storting. It has been done in this case. It was announced in the library message, and it was announced in the state budget for this year. Then this message also came to the Storting. It is also the case that the opposition is responsible for reading the documents submitted and putting in place the processes in progress. As far as the archive sector is concerned, I believe that a great deal has been done. We haven't had a big message about the archive sector. It would be natural, in my opinion, to come back to Stortinget with a major discussion about how we can strengthen the archive sector. I believe that it is important to have the Storting on board. But it is also true that when the government submits its proposals to the Storting, the opposition must see that we do so, and possibly react at the times we warn that we will initiate processes. It was done in the library sector. Then there was little discussion. When the proposal was put on the table, the opposition said that we had not made proposals for the Storting, which we had done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e429	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e434	I would like to ask the Council of State, on an appropriate occasion, to show me where the library message says this. As I remember it -- and I have quite good memory -- there was one or maybe a few sentences that said you should look at the worksharing between the National Library and ABM-u. It said so. Frankly, there's quite a distance between looking at the division of labour between two key actors in a system, and saying that there's a reason why the Stortinget has said that one should be able to put it down without any more discussion. That's what you've done. I think it's quite frivolous that you'll hear that you haven't wanted to read the documents. Then I took note of the Council's answer to my question that she actually doesn't think it's a big point to see the relationship between these three fields. In the answer, she pointed to links within the library field and within the archive field. I fully agree with that – it is in and of course very black – but the question here was the connection between the archive field, the library field and the museum field. I do not think we have received a good answer on how this is supposed to be done in relation to the cooperation that was planned within the original ABM-u. As far as the archive area is concerned, I am pleased that the Council of State signals that we are going to get a message about archives. It's high time. The point the Council of State has not made is that the subject of archives is a subject within – what should I say – two steps. First, it's about an archival creation, that's the whole process of actually having an archive to collect for the future. So it goes into the actual collection of the archives in the future. The last part might be well taken care of. The cultural context, the first part, we haven't had any discussion around. It is in this context that the question of whether the Directorate of Administration and ICT could be an instance of involvement in such a context has been raised by the Right. We have seen that the Riksrevision has been very critical of public sector archiving. We know that this was a topic related to ABM-u in terms of whether archive creation was well cared for. This is an important question, as far as the archival process has a lot to say about how archives will be stored in the future. Thus, there is something unsolved – or unanswered – throughout this system that we have to get an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e445	The representative remembers errors in what the government reported to the Stortinget in the library message. It says: ‘The Ministry, in consultation with the relevant Ministry and the Board of Directors of the institution, will assess whether closer coordination or pooling of library tasks in the National Library and ABM development — if possible, a solution’ — and now listen — ‘to transfer library tasks from ABM development to the National Library’. So it is obvious that the representative has not read well enough the wording that the government has sent to Stortinget – it was obviously in the post that the representative held in place. Here we started this process. It's been a year -- it's been a long time. It is also important in the cultural field that we have processes that enable employees to clarify their working situation. Years of processes are not in the interests of employees. For this reason, when it came to staff members in the archive and museum part of ABM development, they wanted to clarify as quickly as possible in the interests of their working situation, because being in a long-term transition process is not always appropriate for employees. As regards the coordination of the archival, library and museum sectors, this was a major issue in many European countries for approx. 10 years ago. More and more countries have gone away from this thinking and more so the need to work together on – what we are doing in Norway and what has also happened in Sweden – a strong national library. The main reason for this is digitisation. The professional challenges are in many ways the same. It is also true that when we have had a Bjørnson year this year, I believe, unlike the representative Skei Grande, that it has resulted in enormous local involvement. In two years' time, we're going to have Ivar Aasen years, and we're now working with the Nynorsk Cultural Centre and the National Library for a good explanation of the responsibilities in these areas. I believe there is a need for a strong actor when we have major author's anniversary, and it's not like the National Library's involvement in the Bjørnson case has taken away local involvement in events for Bjørnson. But yes, it's always a balance. Is it that we're going to see the ABM sector in a context, or is it that we're going to see the library sector in a context? If that's the case that we're going to see everything in one context, we're going to have one very big body that manages almost everything. For example, it could be argued that the authors of literature within the Council of Culture should be merged with the National Library. I don't argue for such a solution, but I think it's important that the people who work with libraries cooperate with each other. Then we might have to create other constellations for collaboration between those who work with archives, libraries and museums.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e462	Olemic Thommessen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e465	I maintain that the Council of State did not provide coverage to terminate the ABM-u. It was about problems, not the problems. If the Council of State has such knowledge from primary school, that means that there could be some tasks left. If shutting down ABM u was an alternative, it would require a completely different coverage and a completely different visualization. There's not a word about it being a topic in this context. It was not a signal that the Storting could imagine would lead to such a great grip. Whether the grips are a good idea or a bad idea, we haven't got coverage to be able to think so much about – to be completely honest. We take note of the changes that are being made, and we want happiness and hope that will be good results. But the Right will not be responsible for the grips that have been done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e480	As a liberal, I have as my starting point that I believe well in people until the opposite is proven. I'm a little bit unsure whether I might have to say that the council here has proven the opposite. I thought that the critic had reached out a little bit and would be met with at least some kind of humility. The employees who when this came out as news were dismissed, sat in my office and felt completely overwhelmed and taken to bed, were rejected all the criticism that has been in the debate and claimed that it does not exist – one claims that the criticism from employees does not exist, that the criticism from the organisations does not exist, and that there is a message in the Storing Message that this is coming. It's creative reading, I mean, and I think it's arrogant of a government council to say that big business representatives don't do their job, because that's what we're here to do. I have to say that it is the process that is the main problem in this whole case. We've been willing to discuss different solutions, but they've been cut off. I think that is extremely bad in the field of culture, because the cultural area is actually an area where we should have some national compromises, where we should have public debate, where we should both have processes that include the professional authorities and make some broad compromises here in the Chamber. Now, over the last five years, the whole field of culture has evolved into a field in which the majority power is used to the limit. There is no concern either about organisational processes in relation to the institutions to be reorganised or about the political majority here. Then I believe that we lose something very fundamentally in relation to the traditions we have when we build cultural institutions. The same thing is what comes under the next interpellation. You just run over, you decide for a conclusion at the beginning, and you don't care about going into Parliament to get a ‘go’ on that this is the right way to go. So I could say a lot about the author's anniversary. The problem is not that the National Library doesn't make nice, shiny brochures and a lot of nice arrangements, but I think we would have gotten a lot more out of it if we had managed to get out the extra that you see on the locality of the different author's anniversary. Maybe it's not all of the anniversary things are about, but maybe it's about someone where we could get more out of it and a broader commitment than when it's done on the state level.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e497	I'm not going to try to compete, either with the representative Thommess or the state council, about memory in the library message, but I took the word to make it clear that my main concern, both in the post and in the line, was not whether the government and the state council have fulfilled their information obligation to Stortinget – it would in that case be a much more serious discussion – and not related to the formal obligations to inform the Stortinget. My main concern was that the archival, library and museum sectors, as a major and important part of cultural policy, as a major and important part of both the management and dissemination of Norwegian cultural heritage, deserve broad political anchoring, deserve a broad political discussion. The choices we are going to make in the key areas deserve a broad, public discussion. A real down-to-earth treatment before important road choices are made serves just such a purpose. Decisions in the Department and the Government are completely different from those in the Stortinget. Both as a political anchor and not least for the public debate, this matter had deserved broader public and political treatment before important road choices were made. That has been my main concern in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e502	If the representative Schei Grande reads his large-scale papers, I have no reason to comment on them. What I have reason to say about is whether she listens to what I say from this pulpit, or whether she deliberately distorts it to make me seem less intelligent or less inclined than the point. The truth about the employees in ABM u is that yes, in the library sector, the employees did not want a transfer. I have also met them, like the representative Skei Grande, and this reorganisation has not been a wish of the library staff. However, I would like to say that the staff are very well cared for in the National Library, and the signals I receive are that this change is going very well. With regard to the rest of the staff in ABM development, namely those in the archive sector and the museum sector, it was those who took the initiative in the reorganisation and in moving them to the Norwegian Cultural Council. It was just listening to employee initiatives, initiatives from the professional community, and they saw themselves serving to strengthen their professional environment by going over to the Cultural Council. This has been a matter where the employees have been listened to. But it's not like -- in this area or in other areas -- that we commit ourselves to doing just as the employees tell us. There have been many changes in the cultural sector in recent years, and I believe that the changes that have been made have been true. There was also great resistance to the changes in the field of film, but we have seen in the extension that it has been important to strengthen professional competence and to have strong cinematic environments. Norwegian film has benefited from the changes we've made in the film area. I am also sure that Norwegian cultural life will benefit from the changes we have made by the Council of Culture, and that the library sector in the municipalities will benefit from the changes we have made in the library area. I do not agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that there are no changes to be made in the field of culture. On the contrary, in periods of large increase in public budgets, we should be very careful that we spend the money properly and do not have double administration. With regard to the Bjørnson anniversary, it's been celebrating all over the country. It's been in Kvikne, Nesset, it's been in Search, and it's been in Aulestad. I haven't found out in any of these places that the local people have said that the National Library has been gnawing their commitment. Rather, on the contrary, I have noticed that there has been great satisfaction with the state focus we have had on the Bjørnson anniversary. So here, the Skei Grande constructs contradictions that don't exist. The State does not prevent local involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e519	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1227]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e537	I can't say that we're experiencing some humble state council today. But after a lifetime and two-three architectural competitions, the cards have been thrown and the cabal for the museums in Oslo has been laid, but far from being solved. Back is Tullin onion, dumped and wrecked. Ulne clouds hover over the Tullin onions and the National Gallery, which is about to be emptied of content – emptied and evacuated. The future is uncertain about big words and apparently consensus about the large displacement planes. After many years - right around the corner - the Tullin Loop deserves a lift. The tullin can be made into a lush, green lung – I would say that there is an inner file in Oslo, but that is now the rat – preferably with a small sculpture park. What's wrong with the National Gallery? All right, the façade needs a tightening and a make over. Otherwise it's not too much to postpone on the building, which since 1882 has proudly shown Norwegian national romantic painting, which in 1937 allowed Edvard Munch to have a separate room, and which has been a very popular room in the National Gallery – a building with a great entrance hall with a majestic staircase, which I've heard that Christian Krogh became a statue, so this is a building with good history. You can walk from the hall to the hall through different styles and epochs. Old masters are presented in premises that are made for their art. The house is simply built for that purpose of showing art. Our older national taxes should continue to be used in these Tullin onions. The government can then assess whether contemporary art is going to have a fine-looking signal building at the West Railway Station. Many applauded when the new cabal for moving the National Museum to the West Railway and the Deichman Library, the Munch Museum and the Stenersen Museum to Bjørvika was launched in late May. But no one has mentioned what all the empty, fine, historic buildings are to be used for. The government is satisfied because a difficult knot has finally been solved and a solution has been found for what to use the Western Railway Area for. The rest of us are waiting for the Tullin onions to get a real lift. The assumptions have changed, as I see it, but the decision is: the National Gallery is to be emptied and evacuated. Actually, the Council of State stands at the decision of its predecessor. Governments have said to the media that it is more fun, of course, to lay down a foundation for a new museum than to maintain and maintain existing buildings. Can the National Gallery be saved by fashion maintenance? After the architectural competition, a winner is left. Then we're in a phase where we, who are the National Gallery's guardians and friends, link our hope to. That's when adjustments are in progress. It can happen as easily as the Minister of Culture says that the paintings in gold frames, for example, will stay where they are. I don't think the reason for clearing and clearing the National Gallery is that the Contemporary Art Museum needs a bigger building. No, it's because the National Gallery is so popular that it will attract more visitors to the West Railway. It's the oldest museum in the country and one of the country's most visited museums. The national gallery is also a success, without being co-located. There are more visitors – in actual figures – than similar museums both in Copenhagen and Stockholm. There are not so many who visit the Contemporary Art Museum. The reason is that Munch is popular and hangs in the national gallery. The basic idea is that those who go and look at Munch will also look at contemporary art. That's the thought. I refer to the great foreign and other Nordic capitals. I want to draw Finland out, I want to draw Sweden out, I want to draw up England and Germany that have recently restored the old museums of older national art, and that want to show new collections in new buildings. To me, this makes sense. Yeah, we see where Mona Lisa hangs, and we should take that as an example. The old one is also the last scream, I understand when you listen to the expertise. No one is ashamed of Oslo's lack of magnificent building, but many are worried that the historical lines will be gone. I'm talking here about the cultural heritage. Norway shall not have a reckless management of its own history. Using the Tullin loop for something other than the parking space must be correct. I think the National Gallery would have passed, if you had a complete plan for that area. What formal decision has been taken in this case on the transfer of the National Gallery, many are asking. Many people feel that there is only one bureaucratic decision, that someone has spoken in the back room. If there is a democratic decision somewhere to empty the National Gallery, it is often repeated out there by those who are engaged. It is good to know that political decisions can be reversed. We've often seen that in this room, especially after some people announced what Oslo's empty cultural buildings should be used for. Then there was a reading room in the National Gallery. Last year we were also talking about the need for kindergartens. Is that what we want there? Or do we want Petter Stordalen to build a hotel? He builds hotels in all sorts of old buildings, so I think he'll sail very much on the beautiful building that the National Gallery is. What does the government want to fill these rooms with? That's what people want to get answers to. While the government experiences the situation as a cabal to be put in place, others see that the identity of the capital is at stake. Moving cultural institutions to new buildings at the sea edge is hardly in accordance with the fact that Karl Johan's gate is the city's backbone. Oslo becomes a poorer city of culture if the National Gallery and the Museum of Art move into common buildings in the Western Railway Area. Other European capitals – which I was in the past – equip the old buildings and see an advantage in having historical art museums, including the building mass there. Is the National Gallery of Puzzles for this Government? What also disappoints me, is that ricksman Jørn Holme has the sense of the proposal to empty and escape. When the chief spokesman of cultural memory sees himself satisfied that the building should be preserved as an empty shell, I become skeptical. In the past, the Oslo teams of the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party have expressed concerns about the closure of the National Gallery. Where are they now? Why aren't they in the barricades when the National Gallery needs them? In the summer, Minister of Local Councillor Liv Signe Navarsete told us that the entire Central Party is opposed to the co-location of the National Museum. From the government's point of view, Navarsete should not have said what she said. She exposed a doubt within the government. The National Theatre is a short walk from the National Gallery. Rehabilitation is also required by the National Theatre. A two-year relocation is likely to be required in order to have a total rehabilitation of this theatre, but no one has proposed to wind up the theatre for it. Well, by the way, the Progress Party has done it. But they've come up with better thoughts, and I'll encourage the government to do the same. The discussion that's going on right now is the one we've never had in advance of this. We've seen a trick from Giske & Co. What I've been concerned about is lack of democracy before making such serious decisions. The National Gallery and the Art Industry Museum shall continue their activities and shall not be emptied for the benefit of a new merged Western Railway Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e575	Arrogance has become a theme today. If it's the case that the interpellant believes that only we're putting a little push on the façade of the National Museum, or the former National Gallery, is all right, then at least he's showing arrogance to all the professional reports that point to fire safety, that point to climate problems, and that point to the security of the theft. It is these reports that underlie the work of the government. It is probably symptomatic of the Progress Party that important professional reports that say that we are not taking good enough care of our art taxes are being ignored today. I dare not ignore such reports, and this is also the basis for the government's work in this matter. Interpellant refers to the recent debate on the extension project of the National Museum of the West Railway and the use of the National Gallery building. He has asked for an explanation of how the government sees the further course of action in relation to the new National Museum, including the location of the National Gallery, in order to ensure the preservation of democratic interests. The debate shows that there is a broad consensus on some fundamental issues in this matter – at least it has been until now – but I became a little concerned after I heard the interpellant’s view of what the situation really is at the National Gallery today. What has been agreed is that the National Museum is struggling with unsatisfactory building conditions. So this applies to both safety and climate. In addition, today's premises are too small. It's been claimed by the employees since the 1970s. Both historical art, art industry, design and contemporary art have a great need for more space and much better premises. Limited exhibition areas mean that too little museum collections are available to the public. Today, large parts of the National Museum's collections are located in different warehouses in Oslo, and there is a very great need for magazines and workshops where both climate and safety requirements are being cared for much better – much better than what is being done today. The size has been regularly briefed on the state of this case since 1999. The government’s response to these challenges is to set up a new building for the National Museum of the West. All research has clearly shown that the best solution for the museum's rich and extensive collections is this. Dissemination and exhibition activities need to have better and more flexible conditions. We have chosen a project that we know for sure is the best thing for the collections, namely a new building that meets all safety and climate requirements. It's important to us. The main issue is whether the National Museum will move the exhibitions in the National Gallery to the new building of the Western Railway once it has been completed. Some of the disagreement is about the historical art to be moved. Those who believe this, believe that it should be in the national gallery as today. It is shown that the building in its time was built for art exhibition, and that the historical art fits best in this building. Those who want to keep the National Gallery as a permanent exhibition site for historical art seem to allow consideration for the original function of the building to outweigh our obligation to take care of these unique historical collections. They choose to ignore, in my opinion, certain basic conditions. The national gallery has too little space to show you everything they should be showing people. Only a small part of the works we can show up in this building. Today, the National Museum states that they only show 7 pst. of the entire museum's collections of ancient and modern art. This means, among other things: 7 pst. by I.C. Dahl's collections and one third of Munch's oil paintings. The National Gallery has some clear building constraints that we should not overlook. The representative of Thomsen will be well aware that the government gave a full account of the building problems in the National Gallery in relation to the revised national budget for 2009. There was all this listed up. Among other things, fire risk analysis is mentioned, which shows that the steel structure of the roof of the national gallery will not provide sufficient resistance to fire. The museum therefore found it necessary in 2007 to remove all art from the third floor. So there's much more to it than refurbishing the façade. In the last ten years, the National Museum has systematically recorded climate conditions in exhibition and magazine rooms, and there is no doubt that climate conditions are so unfavourable that this could be a risk of damage to our national taxes. This has also been discussed by the National Audit Office in two reports. I do not take lightly the Riksrevision's remarks. When an overall building complex at Tullinløkka was investigated, it was assumed that the national gallery would be upgraded as far as this was technically sound. So this was the first choice for most of the parties on the Stortinget. However, it was clear when this was an alternative that the main collections should not be exhibited in the old building, in the old National Gallery. They were to be moved to a new building on the Tullin onion so that basic safety and climate requirements could be met in the best possible way. The National Gallery is a beautiful building, and in future use we shall take into account the peace of the building. This includes, inter alia: intervention and structural changes which conflict with the specific nature of the building should be avoided. State-building has launched a multi-stakeholder process. As concrete activity proposals are presented, the results of the various activities will be identified. The various activity proposals should also be illustrated by cost estimates. The Government will duly inform Stortinget about the process associated with the National Gallery. I want to initiate dialogue with several actors to highlight the possibilities of activity in the old building. There may well be cultural and exhibition projects in the national gallery in the future. In any case, the National Gallery must be emptied of art and activities before anything can be done about the building. This could only happen when the construction of the Western Railway is completed in 2016-2017. In the case of the West Railway project, the Stortinget will normally be presented with a proposal for a binding cost framework. First, a pre-project based on the winning proposal must be carried out after the end of the competition. According to the plan, the pre-project shall be completed and assessed by an external quality assurance body so that the Storting may bring the matter under consideration during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e601	I feel that the Council of State argues against itself. I'll try to justify that she said that the premises are too small, as an important point, but the third floor is empty. Fire safety is too bad in the gallery, but something has to be done about it later. The climate is far too bad to preserve art. You're going to do something about it later. Theft insurance is too bad, but you have to do something about it later. It was all the arguments that came to move to the West Railway, and you're going to do something about that later. Yeah, why don't you take a break and rust up the National Gallery, what the Council of State will do later, and we'll get a great, great construction that's up-to-date. The national gallery can become as modern as Louvre. There is no requirement for the national gallery to be evacuated or emptied by the public or professionals. Why must the National Gallery be emptied? Well, it's because of this argument that we heard from the Council of State about theft, fire protection, that the premises are too small. We know, however, that in the future something has to be done there, but first we're going to build a new one, we're going to build a big one, and we're going to rage this art history that we have in the gallery. Also take care of the Tullin loop if you need space, and use it to the full. Make it an inner file in Oslo. I had hoped that the Council of State could see these things, and not argue against itself throughout its entire contribution – which I felt she was doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e610	Taking care of our national taxes requires something quite different from normal cleaning. Therefore, if we are to have our national taxes in the old National Gallery, it requires very special forms of climate action, fire safety measures and theft measures. If there's going to be other things in the building, we don't need the same type of upgrade of the same character. It's simply because our national taxes need the most desperate. When we investigated this option, where we were going to build an addition to the Tullin onions, it was that what was in the plan was that our national taxes should be moved out of the old National Gallery, and we would possibly use the old National Gallery for sculptures and other things that did not require the upgrade that we had to have if we were to take care of our national taxes. That's why it makes sense that if we're going to use this building for other things, we don't need to upgrade the same character. That's what's typical of all the paintings that are best taken care of in other countries. We're not doing it enough today. I encourage the interpellant to read the professional reports, which in a very thorough and good way tells us that we are not doing this well enough today, and that a completely different treatment of our art is required if this is to be left to future generations. It is also the case that there has been disagreement on this matter with the Progress Party all along. The progress party does not want any new building. They therefore put forward proposals in the Spring 2009 Stortinget. They then proposed, together with the Left, that the case of new construction and localisation be brought to an end before the case was submitted to the Stortinget. The Stortinget had already been notified that we were working with the West Railway. We passed this on to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2009. We put forward proposals for the Storting to grant funds for the 2010 government budget, and there is also a proposal in the Stortinget to grant several million kroner for pre-projecting, so that we can get a case for the Stortinget. This matter has been notified to Stortinget on several occasions. If we now stop and do different investigations, this project will be further delayed. As I said at the outset, it has been known that the National Gallery has been too little since the 1970s. Now this case deserves our progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e623	We all know the term "museum guardians". In this case, I literally feel that this expression can be used – and then with a glimpse in my eyes. I have great respect for those who sincerely fight for their right to argue and assert their opinion about both the move of the National Museum to the Western Railway and, not least, what becomes the further destiny of the National Gallery. I've been following this case from the sideline for a long time, and I'm left with the impression that much of the feelings and commitment in this matter are linked to the building of the National Gallery itself, and what becomes its further destiny, and perhaps not so much the focus on what challenges the National Museum faces as a museum. Now, in its paper, the Council of State has outlined the main challenge in this matter — the lack of building, space and accessibility for all, to mention some areas. The museum occupies many in this country, and as the case-law rapporteur for the museum announcement that was presented earlier this year, I have met people around the country with a great commitment to running the museum and the challenges each has, whether it be construction or other aspects of museum operations. There are enough people who could imagine being in such a position to discuss a new museum building, and at the same time they record the paradox of or against a new museum building in Oslo. I include this in the debate, because one can get the impression that this debate is a purely Oslo matter. So it's not. It's one thing that concerns us all. The debate on the National Museum is a national museum case. I would say that the most important thing for people in the country is to make the National Museum, with all its art treasures, available. When I think of availability, I think of the art taxes that can't be shown today because of space shortages, and also availability for those who can't reach the museum building because of physical obstacles. I've been made aware that parts of the building do not meet the universal design requirements, and it in itself makes something structurally necessary to do, either in the building that is, or in a new building, which I hope will be the final result. So far, I see that availability, both in terms of access to art taxes and physical access, has not been given the important place in the discussions that it should have had. In my view, this debate has drowned in the debate on the soul of the National Gallery, as the representative Ib Thomsen has so proselytically performed in this Chamber today. In March this year we discussed St.meld. No 49 for 2008-2009, about the museum of the future, and I underline: the museum of the future. In this perspective, it must be very exciting to address the debate on the future of the National Museum with that focus. The Storing Message focused on four f's. It was management, research, dissemination and renewal. My claim is that the four fs are being challenged in today's National Museum, but that they will be revitalized in a new building on the West Railway. I have also registered that Astrup Fearnley Museum of Modern Art has plans for new construction at Tjuvholmen. For many, the West Railway-Tyuvholm axis may be one of Norway’s most exciting meeting places where you can see the diversity represented by Museums-Norway. I want to take a word that the representative Ib Thomsen used instead – the “indrefilet”. I think it'll be a museum inside that area. Finally, the discussion about the National Gallery and its transfer is an important matter, and I am not afraid that the soul of the National Gallery will not be taken care of for the future. It has been announced by the Council of State in its article, that you must work to ensure that the building is built there. But unlike the representative Ib Thomsen, I don't think that the Norwegian cultural heritage stands and falls with the National Gallery and its further fate. My claim is that it will be revitalized by meeting the museum of the future in a new building.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e651	Arrogance was a theme, said the Council of State. Yeah, that's right. The Council of State also correctly stated that the Stortinget had been regularly briefed on the project with the National Museum — the National Gallery — for many, many years. So true, so true. But then one morning we woke up, and my experience was that I came to the hall – it called in at noon. 10 – and there, Geir Helljesen stands out in the hiking hall and puts a microphone in my face and says: Can I get your comment that Trond Giske and Erling Lae have now agreed that the National Museum should be moved to the West Railway? Then I was really indebted, because I had never heard of the National Museum being moved to the West Railway, and my annoyance was, I think, tactful. And that's where the arrogance lies. So with one pen stroke, the resilient one moves. Guess the whole project, which has gone on, where you've been through laps in relation to different drafts, where you've been through laps in relation to the old building mass, where you've been through a whole long series of all the problems that this involves. And flips, it was all suddenly thrown over, and there we sat with a cultural building in Oslo – that's what I come back to, that's a point – and a very expensive one. We were suddenly left unanswered in relation to the old building mass, which, however we turn around and turn on it, will remain the responsibility of the state and end up at the expense of the state. Because that's not what the representative Thomsen says, that it's just to lime a little bit on the outside and tow on some lawn seeds, we're done with this. The bill is there, and it's juicy. We have to deal with it, and it comes into an area that is already hard to deal with, that is, cultural building. Then again there are some debates you can't take, because things have happened at a furious speed in the back. I think the smiles were wide in the City Council when the Municipality of Oslo had really managed to get rid of the Western Railway Plot. For the Western Railway Area is not particularly suitable. There is an old railway station in whose backyard this building is to be set up. It's impossible to do anything about, it's said. I have previously suggested that we should satisfy the building and clear the site for a building, and give the architectural premises that I think this project deserves. We also have the U.D. block, which at least at that point was a theme. In short, there were railway tracks and a little bit of everyone so complicated that the Deichman library, which Erling Lae at the time had worn to get in place, was almost impossible to realize. So we're talking about the construction that's going to take care of the nation's visual history. That house is now going to have a life in a backyard at an old railway station, and however you turn and turn on it, that's how it's going to appear. And I think the rounds we've been through with architectural competitions just reinforce this issue. Eelreit, but we have to be a little bit pragmatic someone each. When we have a government that insists on this, and which may have as much as three years ahead, we have to be a little pragmatic. And I don't choose to cry over spilled milk. I assume that there will be a new national museum on the West Railway and hope for the best. I am sure that the interior, technical and professional will be well cared for – perhaps better cared for than the old project. What I think must be a common issue now is the issue of the old building mass. I hope that we can agree on, across the fronts of this, now to start a work related to the National Gallery's old building, which makes that building a future. The right has suggested that it would be natural to do so within the framework of the National Museum. We do not focus on the professional question of what should be inside the building, but we see that the building needs to be repaired, and that we need to get started on that work now. An empty ghosthouse in Oslo's center to fall down is no one's earned. In conclusion, I would like to point out the major challenges we face in relation to cultural building, which is a very difficult item on the cultural budget. Oslo has many major challenges related to this project, but also to university projects, with old and new buildings. Here it's vital to get started with a job just to deal with the amount of money that needs to be done in the future. And it's a serious problem not just for Oslo, but for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e666	As far as I understand, this debate has been going on for a long time before I was born in the mid-1980s. I think it is important to say that it is good that things are finally happening in relation to how we are going to take care of our art taxes in Norway. I'm a little provoked by that Progress Party, which is a party that cuts 1 billion. in the cultural budget of the financial position, stands here and criticizes the government for finally taking up both the restoration and the art taxes. In the National Gallery are some of the largest art taxes we have in Norway. It poses two major challenges. One is about storage. How can we be sure that I.C. Dahl, Munch, etc. does not just last today, but for another 150 years? Governments have pointed out the kind of challenges that lie in today's building in that regard. The second is about availability. This isn't art made to stow away, or to lie in a cellar somewhere. This is the art that we need to produce in the public, and then we need new tools and maybe a new building. An art collection will constantly grow, and that's how it's good that the building that was a historic bet 100 years ago is too small today. That means we have more art to show up, and that means we have more treasures to show up. And we have to do that. This government has had a historic boost in the field of culture. We can and should take advice on real facilities and bets for the centuries to come. The National Gallery is a unique building. The representative of Thomsen is right. It is a tax in itself, and it must be kept as part of the art axis in which it lies on Tullinløkka. I believe it would be natural to continue to show art and to promote culture in the national gallery building at Tullinløkka. It requires upgrading, it requires refurbishment. It is artistic, museum-disciplinary and dissemination-disciplinary judgement that will underpin the kind of exhibitions to be shown there, we believe in SV. It is quite clear that older singers can come to justice – we see that today – and can be shown in the time and context they were painted. But maybe it might also be interesting to show contemporary art in such a building, what do I know? I'm elected, not an artist. In addition, I would like to take up a perspective that insofar as the representative Thomsen was also inom. It's about building a lot of big cultural buildings, both in the West Railways and in Bjørvika, we have to have in mind that it's also important that there's art available around the districts of Oslo, and not just west.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e683	The case of a new national museum has led to major debates. In the opposition, we have pressed for the necessary information from the government. The previous great national promise for cultural construction was built in Bjørvika. It was a great success. No one wants any new building on the West Railway, a national museum, to become a colossal on the camp feet. It is such that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the department's opinions, the professional environment, and the decisions are taken in closed rooms. The size should have dealt with the matter in its full scope, so that decisions that should remain firm over a long period of time could have been well anchored. When it comes to the construction itself and the plans, I am sure that all parties want the National Museum to succeed. It deserves employees, all of whom – not least – must have enjoyed building for many years to come. But I also ask questions about the plans as they are now available, where everything is to be collected in a large building. Are the particularities of the various artistic expressions adequately taken into account? Are we in danger of ending up with a large identityless cultural supermarket? The Christian People's Party is not fundamentally opposed to a new building for the National Museum, but we are asking questions about the decisions to move so many and different actors into the new building, and we are concerned about the way in which the historical tradition and function of the National Gallery are carried out. There is also reason to ask questions about the project adding up to some kind of bias, an uncritical mix of different art episodes and genres, and whether enough account is taken of the genuineness of the various artistic expressions that we are talking about here. In today's Business on 16 November, State Council Huitfeldt categorically states that «Forum Artis» is being built. Councils of State stated: "This building is behind us. It shall be built.’;» But it's a little paradox to read on in the article, because it's the journalist in today's Business that needs to clarify: ‘If the Stortinget adopts the project in 2012, construction will start in 2014.’ Is it the case that the journalist has misunderstood and failed to bring with him the new proudly elected parliamentarianism? Or is it the journalist who is more aware of the political processes than the government itself has become? It is a little strange to hear the Council challenge the interpellant to read the professional reports behind the conclusions drawn. Why should we do that, we who are cultural politicians on the Stortinget? Well, we're going to do it in order to be able to answer the reporters who call and ask us what we think about this process, not because we have a case for treatment in Stortinget, not because we've been sent the reports from the department. It's possible, as many people have been involved, to draw a parallel to the previous case we discussed, about ABM development and major, important choices in cultural policy. It is also possible to draw a parallel to the previous major national promise for cultural construction, namely the opera-sac. In the case of the opera case, the architectural contest was announced after the Stortinget had dealt with the matter and made a decision. There is another common feature of these matters. In fact, the Christian People's Party had a case-by-case chairmanship both for the paper on ABM development and the establishment in its time, and the opera case when it was dealt with in Stortinget. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has a special ownership of the history of both of these matters. I'm simply telling you that to illustrate the importance of anchoring the kind of important cultural policy choices in the Storting. It creates a broader platform for future cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e711	I have to say that the only thing I think is positive with this debate is that, after the Council of State's statements, I felt at least that it was confirmed that my adrenaline pump was working. I think there's a lot of things you could have picked up, but 5 minutes is too little. The main problem, as I see it, is that we have a government that thinks they think big, but that thinks so extremely small. You think now you're going to make a museum. You have to build a museum, and that museum is supposed to be on the West Railway. Everyone agrees that we need a new museum building. Everyone agrees that the room for contemporary art is far too bad. All agree that working conditions in the national gallery are far too poor. Everyone agrees that archive systems and storage capacity are far too poor. These are the challenges we have to face. This we have been discussing, having had an architectural competition after an architectural competition, and investigating – everything in relation to Tullinløkka. So all of a sudden, you decide to build on the West Railway, but not after a landfill. In fact, a few days before Giske went out, Oslo SV adopted the same model as Left – they wanted a new contemporary art museum on the West Bank, they wanted an art industry museum where the Kunstindustrie Museum is, and they wanted to keep the National Gallery. It was adopted by Oslo SV. Two days later, Gist goes out and disagrees. It's not like there's an Oslo agreement with Erling Lae. What was there was a change of land, which meant that Oslo was rid of the land that the state had blocked the development for so many years. Then you have to create a museum. I don't think you should just have historical art or just contemporary art on the West Railway. You can draw something between you and me. I don't even care much about the frame of art – whether it's gold or silver or nothing! What matters to me is that the National Gallery has a historical role in Norwegian cultural life, in the construction of Norway as a nation. It is one of the cornerstones of the nation’s construction of Norway. And it's so incredibly small that we can't take care of it. It's so incredibly small that we can't figure out that all the stones are needed to build the nation. Show me another country in Europe that rejects its whole foundation in the art media – which is going to build something new, and then the old one must be rejected! So you act, when you have a majority, like you don't even have to tell others what you're doing. You just rush forward, as the representative Thommess described here. It is descriptive that we now need to build a large Norwegian signal building in a Norwegian municipality. That municipality is so lucky that it has, I think, 17 staging representatives. Show me another municipality in the Norwegian community that had got such an extension and only two out of 17 big business representatives had met up with the debate! It's Tetzschner and me. Why is that? Well, there's no enthusiasm in Oslo about shutting down the National Gallery. There's no enthusiasm behind these big business representatives saying this is a proper grip. It's not like you're in line in Oslo's streets because the operation of this house is to be shut down. In fact, most people on the bench are so embarrassed that they're not even here! Why is that? Well, that's because you've been overrun. You haven't been heard. You don't take people seriously. Nor is this debate taken seriously. And then they say that the project deserves progress. Are we going to be responsible for something we haven't even agreed to adopt? Are we going to be responsible for the progress of an architectural competition we haven't even been allowed to stamp? Should we be guilty of stopping a project that has not even been approved in this room? Document No The 8-proposal, presented by the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, was about the fact that we wanted to deal with the matter. It was a prayer from Parliament to be allowed to participate! It was a prayer in which we said that if this project is to be carried out, it must be a broad political promise. There must be a majority in this Chamber. It has to be like a pension settlement. It has to be like a climate settlement. Not everyone would have been there, but at least we wanted to be there for the debate! Then we hear that we deserve the progress of the matter. No, I think there is a lot of expertise I could put forward here, much in relation to the building, much that the Council of State should describe which pictures have been damaged under the conditions that are. But above all, this is a question of democracy in which we have been overrun.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e726	I just want to make sure that what the Oslo bench is missing in front of us, that's what we take again in commitment and quality. Otherwise, I would like to start by saying that Ib Thomsen's issue in the interpellation is a precise description of the short-term processes, which from a democratic point of view leaves much to be desired. It was also the representative of Trine Skei Grande inside. I have observed this matter partly from my point of view as head of Oslo Right and also with a certain connection to the political leadership of the city, and have seen that Lae has at least been better off anchoring the decisions in the political environment in Oslo, in Oslo City Council. He is also a person who, by laying, brings forward far broader alliances of cooperation, so that the city has stood behind the grips that have been taken with Huitfeldt's predecessors, because it has also solved other problems – such as the location of the Munch Museum and other important conditions for the city. I don't think you should be tempted to reverse the main steps that have been taken. But I think it is too easy for the Council of State to point out, as she has been quoted in the Evening Post today, that the opposition could only vote against on given occasions, as in the national budget and the state budget. It is clear that the Stortinget should have had all these professional arguments in a summary case, so that the Stortinget could make an informed decision and not just be met by a connection to those processes. I'm a little disappointed that the Council of State then until those degrees seem to internalize the Giske's form of work and it seems exemplary. It would have been interesting to hear if there could be a hint of self-criticism that from a democratic point of view these processes have not run perfectly – at least not at the hands of the state. So I'll use the last part of the post to point forward. I was not very assured by the Council of State's response to the further development. So you have a tempo plan to clear and clear the National Gallery. I can just say that Oslo Right is very much because the building can still have an audience function that the city's population can relate to and not be excluded from. When the Council of State describes that here State Building is going to be the leader in the creative urban development, I have to say that it doesn't calm me down. It would have been fine if political leadership had not only defined itself as a force for action in relation to overcoming democratic bodies, but also stood before bureaucracy and indicated some directions. So today, the Tullin onion does not appear to be what it should do, in such a central urban area. I want to challenge the Council of State on a little lacmus test on its own power of action. Today, I have spoken to City Councillor Stian Berger Røsland, and he says that from the municipality side you can facilitate the decisions needed to establish a temporary park while investigating and developing the areas around – the Treider Quarter, the Historical Museum – and think about traffic clean-up. Oslo Municipality can take decisions very quickly to establish a temporary park that is ready for the university's 200th anniversary next year. If this is not achieved, I see it as an expression of the lack of political power of the Council of State. If you do that, you're going to eat a part of the criticism that's going on while you're investigating further. Then I assume that you get these democratic processes on the rails again, and that you're approaching the Storting with a slightly different attitude, because it could be that the Storing also has a heart for how this city should develop, and not just entrust it to – let's say – technocratic instruments like State Building. With all due respect, it is not the people who need the vision, it is the politicians who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e744	I understand from the debate that the National Gallery has great support. But in this context, I would also like to highlight the process around the opera as an exemplary example of how such matters should be dealt with. Several architectural offices were hired to investigate different locations. This led to a thorough review of several options as a basis for its decision. The path to the decision to build a new opera was long and twisted – much of it provided for the Progress Party – and the debate was also very loud. But the interesting thing about this process is that after the final landfill treatment on the new opera was finished, it was not a sound to hear about the rematch, because the case had then received the treatment it was going to, also here in Stortinget. When I'm accused of being museum guards because I want to take account of the National Gallery, I feel it's an honor to be called it. I have also been accused of saying that there is enough kick in the gallery, so you can still keep the gallery. I disagree. I mean it has to do more. But we have to make some choices, and then I think we should do something else than build a new one. We should upgrade the gallery. We should refurbish the premises that are not usable today. We should upgrade fire safety, we should upgrade the climate inside so that the images can still stand there, and we must not least take care of the images – i.e. theft protection. This is a grip that has to be done with the gallery anyway. The councils have said we should have art there, but you don't need to upgrade the climate, you don't need theft protection, and you don't need fire safety. Well, you still need fire safety. She's just going to put in something else, and that's exactly what we disagree with. The cultural heritage does not fall into the national gallery, but there is little to do. And for the last time today, I'm going to use the words empty and escape.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e753	The very wise wording that this project deserves progress, I have not sucked from my own chest. I picked up these wise wordings from the representative, Olemic Thommessen, in the big debate on this matter in 2009. Here he says wisely: ‘It is an important and central task to get the museum out of the ditch and get a driveway and a constructive process around the new building on the western runway. I can assure you that the Right does not intend to stop or torpedoes that project. [[...]] [[...]] We therefore believe that it is important that we now have the process carried on, and we do not believe that there should be any reversal of the agreement of the City Council with the State and the construction of a large, comprehensive national museum in the Western Railway Area." I record that it is the same fronts in this case as it has been in the last two years. The Left and the Advance Party have found a kind of new alliance and are opposed – a little different reason, but however, it is an alliance. The right supports the government's proposal. It has also been the Christian People's Party now. It was believed in its time that when the matter was presented to Stortinget, it might not have been presented in the form of comments in the revised version, but it should have been submitted as a big message. Well, that discussion is now over. And I haven't registered that neither the Christian People's Party nor the Right want us now to put the process in reverse and go back to presenting a big message, as these parties originally wanted. It is also the case that the Committee has delivered its opinion on this matter on several occasions. When it was presented to Stortinget in the autumn of 2008, Stortinget said: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, considers that the next major national construction project in the capital, once the opera has been completed, is to be a new national museum.’ When the case was brought forward in revision, there were similar wordings. I do not necessarily want the interpellant to read all the investigations from Staatsbyggen or from the Riksrevision – I have to admit that I have not done that either. But it has been presented in several pages to the Spring 2009 Stortinget, where it is described how difficult this is, with climate problems, fire safety and theft. I assume that the representative reads these important wordings and takes this with him in his further work. I am also somewhat surprised that the interpellant believes that the process around the opera was exemplary. If we go back to the discussion that was in this room around the opera building, it wasn't exactly the characteristics we got from the Progress Party. With regard to the National Gallery and the upgrade project, this is not a project to be managed only by State Building. A working group has been set up with representatives from the Ministry of Innovation, the Ministry of Knowledge, the University of Oslo, the Municipality of Oslo and the National Antiquities Agency to assess possible activities in the National Gallery. So there's a bunch of people who want to know what we're going to use this amazing building for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e780	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over. At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e807	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e818	The two representative proposals contain three concrete proposals: proposals for the evaluation of the warning paragraph, proposals for the amendment of the warning paragraph and proposals for the creation of a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate. An overall committee believes that the right to alert is a good thing for both employers, workers and society. The Committee is committed to ensuring a high level of legal protection for the person who chooses to notify. This is an important part of freedom of expression in working life. Furthermore, as I see it, in all parties there is a recognition that this right must have some limitations, and the disagreement in matters is primarily about the design of these constraints. Let me first address the proposal for an evaluation of the warning paragraph and its effects. The majority in the Committee are in favour of such an evaluation. But I record at the same time that there is a disagreement between the parties when it comes to how such an evaluation should be. Through the two representative proposals, I note that the opposition parties seem to draw their conclusions in advance. I believe that an evaluation of the current system will be both useful and necessary, and in line with the Stortingen's wish when the provision was adopted. But I believe that a review must be open and open in order to find the experience that alerts and businesses themselves have gained, not the experience that we as politicians demand. I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee also sees the need for such an evaluation of the Alert Institute in the Working Environment Act. Work needs to start rapidly and the Fafo report from May this year provides a good starting point for work. While the Committee has examined the matter, questions have been raised in the media about the alert protection of employees of subcontractors. I would like to stress that this evaluation also needs to clarify the legal status of alerts from employees of lessees and employees at subcontractors. But the majority have chosen not to go into the concrete proposal in document 8:151 S because we do not share the reality description of the proposers. We believe that the effectiveness of the warning provisions cannot be measured by counting the number of cases in the judiciary, as the proposers have done. Let me then turn to the specific proposal in the motion for a resolution No 8:172 LS. I would like to start by saying that the proposers are bombarded when they first present crass criticism of the concept of'responsible', which is today's wording in the law. Then they propose the new text of the law in order to make it clearer to employees, and then they use the terms ‘injury’, ‘indecent’ and ‘substantial’. I don't think this is the concept that all workers will perceive as elucidating, on the contrary, it will lead to considerable doubt as to how they should be understood. Such a way of building up a legal text — as made in this proposal — will over time lead to antithetic interpretations, which may in the long run weaken the alerts. The majority also do not support the proposal to set up a separate warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate. We must recognise that alerts are difficult for alerts, and we must primarily encourage the internal handling of cases in individual businesses, and that this is a good culture. The proposal for a separate warning unit will institutionalise the warning system. I don't think we're worth it. Alert cases are also very diverse. And there's a reason to look at the different state units, for example. supervision has sufficient competence to provide advice when they are contacted in alert cases. I believe that this is also a question that is being addressed in the notified evaluation. We are all interested in the fact that illegalities and critical conditions do not take place in the workplace. The warning institution is an important mechanism for combating this. So if the review of the alert provisions in the Working Environment Act reveals weaknesses, the majority does not object to making the necessary changes in today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e842	Today, we are going to deal with two issues that concern the newly adopted alert paragraph. For the Progress Party, it is important to take care of the individual. In this context, we see that even though we have only had an alert case through the legal system, she has actually demanded quite a lot of it, both in the case and in the case afterwards. One gets feedback from others that one could and perhaps should have alerted, but when one sees what the person who has been through this has been inflicted in retrospect and in the process, one is not particularly tempted from the human point of view to just notifying about different conditions – something that should have been done absolutely. There's one inside on the wrong track. The party wants to set the right course when it comes to taking care of everyone who wants to and should warn, and take them seriously, both in the process and further. For us, this is enough proof that the paragraph doesn't work. Int. 71 S for 2010–2011, we say that we want to put down a selection to simply evaluate how the alert paragraph from 2007 has worked and possibly further propose a new paragraph. We notice that the majority does not see the individual in this, and do not take seriously the feedback you have received in retrospect about the individual case that has been through the legal system. At the same time, it is good that the same position wants a review – an evaluation – during this ageing period. But they don't want it now at half the run. When one is just a few, except for the time, I don't understand why one can't go in and support this proposal. Inner. 72 L for 2010–2011 is about the creation of a Alert Unit in the Labour Inspectorate – a proposal The Progress Party supports. The fact that the Labour Inspectorate already has a special responsibility for guidance on legislation in this area is not enough, it turns out, for each individual employee. This is not good enough, even when it applies to the protection of individual alerts. One needs a separate unit in the Labour Inspectorate for this, with authority for follow-up and handling so that the individual notifier feels safe in the further processing. Here you also have to look at the economic part of this, so that it doesn't stop you from notifying. I would like to raise the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e857	The representative Laila Marie Reiertsen has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e860	Over the past few years, awareness of critical issues has become increasingly topical through concrete and serious issues that have aroused national perception and attention, both in the private and public sectors. The proposals we have to deal with today are about clarifying employee access to alerts about irregularities, evaluating alerts paragraphs in the Working Environment Act and establishing a separate support unit for alerts in the Labour Inspectorate. Since the matter was on the agenda for the previous period, there have been relatively few alerts. Some of the reason for this is that the legal protection for the alert is not good enough. When the law paragraphs on alert protection were dealt with in the previous period, the opposition was in favour of stronger alert protection. Therefore, it is gratifying that we are also united in this treatment. At the same time, it is gratifying that the Department says there will be a review during the period. Exactly why the position cannot then support the proposal at the Innst. 71 S for 2010–2011 setting up a sample to evaluate the proposal is therefore difficult for me to understand. Is the Council of State expecting the number of alert cases to last for next year? After all, it must be next year as the framework for the government if such an evaluation is to take place during this majority period? Or are we talking here briefly about the majority's lack of willingness to support an opposition representative's proposal, so that it can rather be promoted as its own proposal at a later stage? We have seen several examples of municipal scandals where hundreds of municipal millions – or taxpayers’ money – have been wiped out or cheated. It's enough to mention the waterworks scandal on the Roman Empire and the so-called Terra scandal. Often, there is an upsurge and digging press that reveals critical relationships, often after advice from employees. Alerters play an important democratic role in today’s society by revealing critical and illegal conditions in an enterprise. It is therefore necessary to make the best possible possible arrangements for critical conditions to emerge and be properly brought to an end. And it has to be part of the corporate and organisational culture, both in public and private businesses, that alerts are both legal and desirable. Critical aspects include not only criminal matters but also non-compliance with other legal requirements or prohibitions, breach of the ethical guidelines of activities and general ethical standards to which there is broad support in society. At the same time, however, the greater the interest the opinion has in the general public, or the more serious the facts you want to report, the more justified the warning is. There are now a number of factors limiting the ability and courage to alert. I mention: the employee's fear of retaliation, despite legal protection from the employer, management or colleagues, and expectations or opinions about the loyalty of employees to his employer. These loyalty requirements often go far beyond the legal loyalty requirements. Some workers also do not know when they can or should say from – or to whom. It is often a significant personal burden to alert. Therefore, the Right hope that we can later get a case in which we look at the possibilities of making more practical arrangements for alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e879	It is important for society to be clear about protecting the courageous people who dare to ignore the fear that can be internal to a business when there are irregular circumstances. The protection of the Working Environment Act has helped to strengthen this and individual freedom of expression. But this issue also concerns something more: the overall safety of the labour market. Fortunately, with strong social partners, a strong tradition of cooperation between employers and employees, the Norwegian labour market also provides a stronger and greater transparency than many other labour cultures. The paragraph has not been able to work for a long time. However, it is important to point out that the paragraph itself is involved in shaping attitudes within the workplace, and is a strong signal that it is desirable for employees themselves to take up critical issues. We have enough left to ensure good practice and information in the individual workplace so that it is possible for those who need to notify, to know how to proceed. So we have a lot to do in terms of more knowledge and good practice. I am pleased that the Council of State has clearly stated that we want an evaluation during this process. But it's important not to use as a scale how many cases reach the courtroom. As far as the warning paragraph is concerned, the most important barometer is whether this succeeds, that we get a better culture internally to address problems, and that they can be solved in individual businesses. Then there is someone who wants to have bigger problems and feels more insecure than other employees, namely those who have precarious employment. I am very pleased with the commitment shown by the civil opposition to strengthening the provisions and enforcement of the Labour Environment Act – and even the commitment to the Progress Party, which signals support for increased resources to the Labour Inspectorate to prioritise this in a separate unit. We need to do further work to evaluate how we can provide a stronger warning protection for those who are hired workers, but not least those who are temporarily employed, those who are underemployed – depending on taking temporary workers. But there is also reason to warn against the forces that want to create a so-called more flexible working life, with greater job insecurity and for the individual's employee, which will make alerting more difficult. There will be a need in the evaluation to look at how we can strengthen those who today do not feel the same security, but it is a general challenge for the labour market as such. That is why we are pleased that the Council of State has been clear that we should have an evaluation of this work to ensure greater freedom of expression and that we get critical relationships, but not least that we provide a good culture of working life that is characterised by transparency. We also do so by means of a strong work environment law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e894	Warning is legal and wanted, and we have implemented strong alert protection not only because we are going to stop criminal relations and breach of legal provisions, but also because we want to raise the ethical standard. When we dealt with this in the previous period, we all agreed that this paragraph needed to be evaluated when it had worked for some time. That's why I'm glad we're now going to evaluate it, and I'm asking the opposition not to be most concerned about exactly what date it's going to happen, but see that we're now going to start doing this in a proper and proper way. So the evaluation we accept and are happy about. When we discussed this in the previous round, the same legal text was also up to debate that the opposition is promoting again. I have to say that I am as amazed now as I was then, at how to interpret the range of assessment themes that individual alerts should have to decide before they notify, against the paragraph that has actually been adopted. Firstly, ‘not to be done for injury’. Well, I mean, it can happen in the sense of harm. You may be employed by an employer on whom you have good reason to notify, and you may be angry and want to get hurt. It shall not be prohibited. It's not necessarily morally high-level, but it might be equally right. Then you don't have to "tear business secrets". This is, of course, the protection of the companies over the alert. In this way, ‘business relationships of essential competitive importance’ shall not be broken down. Yes, why should it be protected against warnings, if there is something unethical or illegal that the company considers to be more important than the ethical guidelines? The fact that one must not disclose ‘the matters covered by the obligation of professional secrecy’ is correct. Then there are also some assessment themes attached to not their own ethical standard, but some general diffuse ethical standards to be found in society somewhere, as this alert is to be assessed. Yes, I understand the alarm alarm when they are now going to assess safety. But there the Committee and the Storting, when dealing with this last time, has stressed strongly that soundness is also concerned with the environment, the safety of the business, the consideration of the user and the recipient of the business services and the interests of society, to a greater extent than with regard to the interests of the business. So we've protected society and alerts stronger than companies, and the opposition protects the companies in interpreting this. Nor is it the case that the concept of safety is synonymous with loyal warning. It is fully prepared in the setting during treatment last time. It is a concept that was diffuse and unclear, and that we have interpreted in the setting in a way that makes this not in any way synonymous. I can recommend the book that I bought yesterday, called the Warner – important and worthy, by Kjell Horn, where they go through how Storting’s treatment of the alarm protection changed the interpretation of these provisions thoroughly, and in a way that ensures the protection that I perceive the opposition is also concerned about. But then they end up proposing again these law paragraphs that unilaterally protect the companies over the alert. If you have been alerted in ‘good faith’, it is also an incredibly important concept here. This means that there will be a terrible amount of money left for the alert not to be notified in good faith. That also says the treatment we did last time. It is fully lawful to notify the public, it is also stated in the paragraph that we dealt with the previous time. There are no restrictions on this. But I think that no matter how we form this paragraph, we're not going to get away from the fear and the turmoil that the individual worker will feel, both because of the discomfort they're going to have to face, and because of the fear of represals, which in some way it's not entirely possible to reveal. So finally, to the warning unit. Yes, in the long term we'll have to discuss this in more detail, but remember that maybe the most important thing these warnings need is to be able to address someone who can do something about this. If you're going to notify about financial misstatements, it's the credit control that might be the instance you need to address, and where you're going to get help assessing the actual content of the alert. If it applies on the health side, it may be the Health Authority. For the working environment sector, it may be the Labour Inspectorate. There are many units here that have to be responsible if the alerts are to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e913	I have worked up over time with many different alerts. The left was the first party that eight years ago, I think, had its own hearing here on the Stortinget on alerts, linked to the fact that then Minister of Justice Dørum made a new alert paragraph to ensure the legal certainty of the alerts. When you've been working in this field for many years, you see that too many more people should have called a bell in many ways than it has. This is much harder than what I really thought when we started working on it. I've spoken to many alerts, and I've asked everyone, "Do you regret?" Almost everyone answers yes. There is a big warning for this room, because it should not be that alerts who have been right, where there is a judge, who gets evidence that what they did was right, should not be proud of what they have done. They should be proud that they actually announced. It's both about moral standards and about having law and order in our society. And it's about respect for it to say from. That is what the Left's involvement in this matter is all about. When we presented the first paragraph with Doorum, it was to test and figure out exactly where the boundaries go. Then we've been through a process in the left, and we recognize that it was too tight. We want to make it easier. But the recordings that we've received, which are behind this proposal, are recordings from the alerts' navigation. We have a clear intention of strengthening the position of alerts. When one then presents it as if one strengthens the position of the companies, it is to put the matter completely on the head. It's a clear intention, and it's after the notifications that we've made this new law paragraph. I think it's important to say that, because the law paragraphs' background is also part of this debate, and here it was completely turned on its head. So that's the warning unit, which we're very busy with in the left. The reason is that when you discover an illegality or other thing in your own workplace, very few people know which way to go. There are very few people who know how to tell the truth, so that evidence is preserved. There are very few people who know how the whole system works. It doesn't make sense to look up any supervision or know who is going to the Riksaudition, and who is going to go to others. That's why it would have been important to have a warning unit. This is something that all alerts demand: a place where you can go and ask, is it right for me to warn? Is it right for me to interpret the law decision like that? Am I just a little paranoid to my boss – is this actually right? What unit should I go to? What is the right procedure to ensure evidence in this case? I think that this warning unit had been the most important step in strengthening the alerts, so that they could have the opportunity to do it in such a proper way that no one could subsequently ask questions about the way they did it. Because it's asking questions about the way they did it, afterwards, which makes them regret and feel that they have sacrificed too much for the matter. We have to get someone who can help in that particular phase. This role has two groupings in Norway today. They're politicians, and they're journalists. These are the groups that are meeting alerts today. We're the ones who get the stories first. We're the ones that make up the alert unit we want today, and we're not always experts in doing this. We don't always have energy and time to do that. I wanted a unit that had time to do just that. The left supports all three proposals from the Progress Party in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The fact that the government parties do not vote for new legislative proposals is not particularly new in this Chamber. To the point that they cannot support the proposal on the alert unit, but believe that something can happen in the long term: there are many out there who do not live in the long term. There's a lot of people out there that have to figure out what to do right now. This could have been a unit that provided more cleanliness in the workplace, made sure you didn't have to sacrifice so much to be alerts, and it might have been the most important thing they had done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e936	For the government, it is important that workers notifying about critical issues in businesses have legal protection and that Norwegian businesses put alerts on the agenda. A key objective of the implementation of the alert rules was to strengthen the real freedom of expression in employment. For society, it is essential that critical business conditions are identified and stopped, which is also in the interests of businesses. It is a strength for Norwegian working life to have channels other than administrative supervision to detect defects and deficiencies. With the introduction of new alert rules in 2007, the government wanted to give a clear signal that alerts are both lawful and wanted. Today's rules provide a good legal protection for individuals who alert. Workers have a clear right to say whether critical circumstances in an establishment are sound and reprisals are illegal. It is not true that the provision on the right of alert makes very high demands on the alerts, as the representative behind the one proposal claims. On the contrary, it is clarified in the preparatory work that there is a great deal to be done to ensure that the employee's procedure is not sound and that the worker must have a wide margin of discretion in choosing the procedure. The accountability requirement was intended to establish the applicable limits on freedom of expression in alert situations. We have to recognise that alert cases raise difficult dilemmas, where it is also important to ensure legal protection for the individual, or for those on whom it is notified. When the government proposed new warning rules, it was stressed that employee and employer organisations, together with the majority of other hearing bodies, agreed that certain restrictions on the freedom to notify should apply and that the day-to-day framework for freedom of expression should be continued. Although strict requirements should not be imposed on workers in an alert situation, it is not difficult to imagine that the situation would be difficult, both when assessing whether a worker should be alerted and subsequently, if a person experiences various forms of illegal retribution or cooperation problems. It is important that employees have good opportunities to seek guidance in this process. I generally understand the need for help and support the alerts can feel, both before, during and after a warning. However, I do not consider it appropriate to set up a separate warning unit for this purpose. The majority of the population was known to be of the same opinion compared to a similar proposal in 2008. Workers facing a possible warning situation have more opportunities today to receive guidance. The Labour Inspectorate has a special responsibility to provide guidance on the warning legislation itself, and this may help with the assessments that the worker himself has to take into account issues and choices surrounding the alert. With regard to the facts on which notification is being considered, the worker will be able to receive professional assistance from various public bodies depending on the subject matter of the case. With regard to the notification of bullying, harassment, etc., the Labour Inspectorate will be the appropriate body to address, while, for example, the Health and Financial Supervisory Authority or the Financial Supervisory Authority will be able to contribute to professional competence in their fields. In addition, skilled workers will be able to receive competent advice from their professional organisation, which can often also assist in legal proceedings after their needs. Trustees and guardians shall also be able to assist and, if possible, it is also an alternative to contact a lawyer or other legal adviser. An alert body will be able to highlight alerts and freedom of expression, which is both positive and important. However, the proposers would like a warning unit such as: shall not be able to oblige the employer to change the position of the alert, the salary, the duties, etc. without prior information to the warning unit. They also want the warning unit to be able to provide evidence and to investigate the information received and, where appropriate, to bring legal proceedings against the employer on behalf of employees. As I see it, the representatives' proposals open up a number of issues, including: with regard to the role of such a specific body. Like the working group that delivered the report ‘Staff Freedom of Speech’ in 2005, I believe that it would be problematic for a public body to act outwards in support of one party in a conflict of private law which may be very complicated. The proposal appears to represent a dual role for the unit, in terms of both investigation and possible legal action on behalf of the employee, which could be considered problematic from a legal certainty perspective. With regard to the legal text itself, it is clear that it does not itself provide answers to all the questions that an employee who assesses the alert had to face. However, I do not believe that the inclusion of several elements from the preparatory work in the legislative text will provide answers to all the issues and dilemmas facing potential alerts. We have to remember that here we are in a field where there are few simple answers, and where there is a need for a wording that takes into account a variety of businesses, industries and situations to which the rule applies. In relation to the understanding of the rules, I think it will be central that employees have the opportunity to receive proper guidance on these. In my view, it will be a mistake to bring forward a single ‘warning’ to the courts as a sign that the rules are not functioning properly, as is done in one of the proposals. The aim is, of course, to identify critical issues in enterprises without negative reactions for employees, and without the need for legal proceedings. In fact, the new Fafo report on alerts shows that alerts in this country are punishable less frequently, and that alerts in Norway are more effective than those reported in international literature. On the other hand, the report shows that there is still a need to increase awareness of the warning rules. In general, I also see that the warning rules are being debated on a regular basis. It is therefore important that the rules function as intended, and the Minister of Labour has therefore communicated that a new review of alert provisions will be natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e966	The council is very concerned to find out that we do not just have to refer to one matter. In this gallery there are now representatives who have been alerts in several cases. The reason for referring to one case is that in the three years that the warning paragraph has worked, there has been one case that has been won in the legal system. Those who are sitting in the gallery here now will recommend people who ask whether or not they should warn, that they should not warn, with the law paragraphs that the Council of State and others from the government parties in this room have boasted of are fantastically beautiful and fine. How can the Council of State think that these provisions of the Working Environment Act help alerts, when those who have experienced it, those who have really felt it on the body, do not recommend that everyone else be alerted in these kinds of cases? And then I want to say, when the Council of State draws out the Fafo report, and that 70 pst. not need more protection: that's good, but that's the 30 pst. which does not receive what we are to protect, in the same way that freedom of expression is to protect those who want to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e973	I have a great deal of understanding for those who are here in the Chamber today who have experienced problems in alerting matters. I believe that our goal must be that everyone should be able to notify without feeling that you have a negative reaction to it. So I feel, if the representative Hoksrud noticed what I said in my post, that we are positive to see if there are things we should do. We have now received the Fafo report, and it will be a good basis for the ministry's further work in these matters. I also think that's the basis for reminding you that it's 70 pst. who believes that this has been done well, even if it is a burden to notify. It's good that we have many people who dare to stand up and warn about critical circumstances, because it's important that we have the opportunity to do so in Norwegian society. Notice is important, so we get the conditions we want to correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e980	I have to say that I am a little surprised when I hear the council talking about being alerts as something positive. It's very positive that we have alerts, but I think there are very few of those who have alerted in important matters, who feel that it has been a very positive process to be through. It's really tough. It's hard to stand up to your own job, it's really hard to stand up to colleagues, a boss, a job you like. These are tough decisions to make. What I don't understand is that you're so worried about getting guidance on those tough decisions. What I don't understand is why you can't have a unit that you can just ask: what do I do now? Who do I ask now? Where am I going now? I am not talking about a unit that will sort of do the job, but someone who can answer questions. Today it is we politicians, some journalists and others who have their own interests who become the advisers. I want the alerts to have someone turn to in those tough decisions – not a party in the court hearings, but someone to talk to. Why don't they get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e987	Let me underline: I think it's tough to alert, and I think alerts feel it's demanding. I'm sure they will. But I think it is positive that there are rules in Norway that make it possible to notify, and that many people use that possibility. The proposals, as they are here, about a warning unit, are just saying that you want a unit to both investigate and assist alerts in any legal proceedings. It'll be a strange situation for me that we're going to have a public body that goes into such a role. The Labour Inspectorate has a responsibility today to provide guidance to the individual. It is possible that guidance service should improve, but I believe we need to build on the competence of the Labour Inspectorate to advise alerts on how to proceed in alert cases. Then, at the professional level, there will be others who are at least as good as the Labour Inspectorate to provide advice on professional matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e994	We in the Left are not stuck to our proposal. For us, it is important to have an intention. If the Council of State has good suggestions on other positions, other wordings, other names, we have no prestige attached to it. But the Council of State meets it with a ‘no’ and not a ‘yes, but’. She does not meet it with an alternative proposal on how this could have been done, but she rejects the idea that you should have this unit at all. We would like to have a dialogue on how to take it into account, but why is the proposal just being rejected? Why not make a counter-proposal about the interests you want to pursue?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1001	As I said in my post, the ministry is reviewing the experiences contained in the report. The debate here will be an important contribution to the work we are going to do further. Then I have said that it will be natural for us to come back to Stortinget with the necessary suggestions at a later stage, and of course we will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1008	The council says that you have a follow-up point and someone who is following up alerts today. Yes, there are some in the Labour Inspectorate, a few people, who are set to do a job there. But we have received feedback that they do not have the authority and what they need to both give good advice and follow up alerts. When the Council of State says that you should have a unit to process, that is not what you mean by this. The point is that you want to have a unit where you can go and get help to find out if it's an alert case or not, so you can also make sure that those who don't really have an alert case don't get left with an economic ruin because you thought it was an alert case. That's what this is all about, and that's why I think it's a pity that the Council of State won't help saying that we're getting such a unit, that can guide and help with the things that the Labour Inspectorate, the people who work on this, say they need to do it. There I would like to challenge the Council of State: Can the Council of State guarantee an evaluation during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1015	There's two things the representative Hoksrud brings up here. He disagrees that you should not have your own warning unit. I still believe that the Labour Inspectorate is the right body to provide that guidance. So it will always be a question of how to use the Labour Inspectorate. We're going to have to get back to that. But yes – we intend to have a review of the legislation. It will be natural for us, for example: in the light of the report submitted by Fafo. Then we'll get back to when it's natural for us to do it, and when we might be done with that work. At least it's a job that it's the intention that we start up in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1022	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1025	I feel the need to underline something quite obvious after the current change in line, namely that it is the warning paragraphs of the Environmental Protection Act that are intended to ensure the right of workers to be informed of irregularities in an enterprise without being afraid to be punished. But then we know that the letter and practice of the law in the workplace can unfortunately be different things. It is important that illegal or unethical practices are detected and stopped. Timely businesses are self-organizing in such circumstances when it is warned, without ever getting the public to know it. Nevertheless, it's when the companies go off the alert instead of the warning, that we sometimes hear about it. How many, in good faith, have tried to draw attention to critical circumstances, and who in silence have been punished for it, we know little about it. But unfortunately, warning is a risk sport, there can hardly be any doubt about it. Per-Yngve Monsen's shocking story of the persecution he was subjected to in Siemens when he notified of overinvoicing to the Defense, according to my opinion there stands for horror and warning. The Monsen didn't just lose his job, he lost a whole future in Norwegian business. That's a high price to pay. I'm sorry, I'm not sure that there are any new law paragraphs that are capable of correcting these conditions. As stated in the State Council’s reply to the Committee, the alert paragraph has been tried in court once since 2007, without any indication of the meaning of the paragraph. Its preventive effect may be even more important, i.e. it actually helps prevent alert cases from reaching justice. Once again, I note that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party after three years with today's warning rules believes that it does not work as intended. So the opposition parties know better than Fafo, who has investigated how the rules are practiced in the workplace. Fafo has found that there are now a number of people who are using the warning rules and who are getting an impact on their alerts. It would hardly have happened if they had not had a legal protection in their back. Now I should not rule out that the legal protection of alerts should be strengthened. I think, for example, that we need to consider how to ensure the anonymity of alerts. Therefore, government parties also stress that we need to assess whether the intentions of the law are being respected in the workplace. But I think, with respect to reporting, that it's something early to do it right now, after it's seemed so short. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has underlined that we are going to have an evaluation and that it will take place during this process of enlargement. Finally, I remind you of another obvious thing, namely that the companies are legally obliged to facilitate alerting in the workplace. Yes, companies must develop their own warning procedures so that employees know how to act when they discover things they think are critical. Timely enterprises benefit from such practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1041	First to the previous representative, who says that the Monsen's story is'shaking'. Yes, we fully agree on that. The Monsen is one of those who sit in the gallery, and who says that when he gets requests from people whether or not they should warn a matter, he recommends that they do not warn, because the law is too bad, and because the follow-up is too bad. Then it becomes a little special that the same representative who said he was shaken by what was said, in the next moment says that he thinks it is special that someone wants to change the law so early after the law came into force. These are some of those who know what this means, and what this case is about – what this warning is about. It is those who recommend us to transform that law and make sure that a warning unit is put in place. Then it's a little bit special that the same representatives kind of cheer up the law and how good it is, and they cheer up the Fafo report, which shows that 30 pst. of the alerts have major problems. If you go even further in depth, I think that part of the alerts in which it is considered that the new paragraph has worked well, and probably will nuance the picture a little more, based on the information I get. I have followed up at least one matter very closely and seen how the public act in the matter of being met as alerts. I have to say it was a quite shocking experience that too, to experience that when you contact different departments, departments or other directorates, it is not a routine of how to deal with this. And then we've seen that the majority in Stortinget today say no to ask the government to put in place routines that make the public look after the alerts in a good way, by having procedures for handling alert cases. I think it's very special to hear both from the government council and from other government parties. My experience of this is at least completely different, when I hear how happy this is, and how pleased you are with the warning paragraphs, and how they work today. And isn't it that once you see that something doesn't work, you shouldn't change it, instead of waiting? That's what the opposition is doing. We want to change now, because we see that it doesn't work after the intentions. And at least, when I've listened to everyone who's been up and had the word today, everyone has agreed that we want to do something about this. We're concerned about the alerts, we want to protect the alerts, but we don't want to make any changes to the law that will give more people the opportunity to notify. You should also find out that there are some good municipalities, and companies, who do a lot, and who want to take alerts seriously. Porsground municipality has reworked its legislation, and they have only had two pieces that have been notified in a year. They now want to look at how to get more people to notify, because you're concerned that when there's a critical relationship, you're going to take it seriously, and you're going to do something about it. So the representative Pollestad says, "An evaluation looks at all the parties. Yes, if everyone looks forward to it, can we at least make sure to set a date for when we're going to be done? I want to challenge the government parties further: in the case of those who have known it on the body, and who know what this is about, shouldn't the least criterion be that they should be allowed to participate in this evaluation? That is what our proposal is about. We want to set up a sample to do this evaluation, where the alerts, the alerts, will be allowed to attend and gain their experience in alerting. Unfortunately, we feel that there are many good words, both from the representative Pollestad, from the representative Karin Andersen and from the representative Forsberg. There's a lot of good, devout desires, but it's not the will to take this seriously right now. Those who have warned and are alerts, they want us to take this seriously now and not wait. The representative Forsberg and probably the representative Gullvåg are reading what the LO organisations write about the congress of the LO, which was not that long ago, where, among other things. Per-Yngve Monsen was present and told his story. LO Stat says at least afterwards that yes, we've slept an hour. Today, the majority of people have the opportunity not to continue to sleep an hour, but actually support the proposals of the Progress Party, take the warnings seriously, make sure that the alerts are properly protected, and that a unit is put in place to get to someone and get help to find out if you are a real alert or not. It'll be for the best for the alerts, it'll be for the best for the businesses, it'll be for the best for everyone to prevent economic ruin because you're really not a warning.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1058	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1061	In my previous daily life as a lawyer, I have practised these rules and given advice to clients who have assessed alert cases. Let me say right away that someone has exaggerated expectations about what you can achieve, but I have also seen what the threshold is actually seen in relation to the law. I support the intention contained in the proposal. I would also like to point out that what it has been focused on today is the very conditions for what is proper warning and tightening of this. The main problem lies on a slightly different level, and that is the future that the alerts have in the company after notifying them. There may be some sophisticated discipline techniques, which can go over the years, especially if they are refined, and it is almost impossible to prove that you have not had that career development – especially for large companies, but it is also where there may be the most critical conditions – that you would have had if you had been so-called loyal. To the representative Karin Andersen, I would like to say that when she first exerts so much force in arguing against the wording of the proposal in case No. 5, I just think that she should vote in favour of the evaluation in case No. 4, because then we would just get on the table knowledge. And that's really what made me take the word. It is a characteristic of Norwegian administration that, in terms of economic intervention, we have three strong environments around the Central Statistical Agency, the Bank of Norway and the socio-economic economists that assess the impact of economic measures. In terms of appropriations, we have the National Audit Office that is looking into the seams, and see if we have purpose efficiency. However, as far as legislation is concerned, we in Norway have no systematic and planned feedback on the laws we adopt, which actually work as intended. Therefore, I think the government should be happy and more responsive when the Stortinget, as the country's legislative body, asks for feedback on how these laws that we have now passed, work. One is interested in feedback and experience recovery, which allows this assembly to do a better job and become a better legislator. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on this, because it's also a legal position you take when you're not interested in how the experience is actually out there in the everyday lives of the companies or individuals you're trying to regulate the behavior. I would like to ask the Council of State how, in addition to the organisational unit of alerts, perhaps in her own department, she sees that alerts in the state can be followed up? I remind you that the Municipality of Oslo has done this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1072	At first I think we have to establish that there is no one here who believes that alerts are simple. I mean, it's a life thing for some people. That is why we wanted a warning protection. And yes, everyone agrees that we should evaluate. The government says we're going to evaluate. I think it's a good idea that those who have experienced this should be involved and involved in that kind of evaluation – they're supposed to. In the case of a warning unit, just short of that, I have also not rejected it as part of an evaluation, but there must be competence in many areas if you are to assess it. There may be completely different areas to those for which the Labour Inspectorate is responsible. This may be the case with the Credit Authority, it may be the Health Authority – there may be many other things you need to have competence in order to be able to give advice on whether it is safe or not. I also know that it is essential for very many that they can get such advice. I admit that the paragraph we have today may not be good enough – we said that last time too. That is why we already said that it should be evaluated. But if I were to sit down and read these two different paragraphs and had put them up against each other and assessed them in a situation where I was afraid if I were to alert, I would have to take into account, according to the opposition, that I should not warn ‘illegally’ – what it should be for now – and that I should not ‘open business secrets’, for example. were some of the matters referred to here, so-called business secrets. One should not focus on ‘business of essential competitive importance’, but rather on its own ethical standards, which are a general ethical standard, which I do not know exactly what it is. I think we might have a slightly diffuse view of it. If I were to be alerts and evaluate this, I am absolutely sure that I had been much less sure that I could go and notify them than with the provisions that are today. I am also quite sure that if I were to make the provisions that are today, I would also be nervous, afraid, and insecure. I'm sure of that. It would have been difficult precisely because, as the representative Tetzschner says, this is about represals and reprisals in retrospect, which are also prohibited by law, but which are difficult to deal with in practice. The individual may be exposed to things that are difficult to prove. I think we all share the wish that we should have alert provisions that actually work. But with my very best will, I am not able to see anything better in what the opposition puts on the table as an alternative now, a much more business-friendly paragraph, which says that you have to take into account the company's interests up and down and down and forward, and that even you have to assess whether it is 'illegal' or not. I think it would be a worse warning paragraph than the one we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1085	This is an area where we have come quite far in Norway, also compared to our neighbouring country. An important element of the debate today has been the desire for clear rules. We also have a legal text to deal with, and we have comments from the majority on the Storing saying something about the judgements that you have to make. I think that's the starting point. Then I have to comment on the claim made by the party representative who came earlier in the debate that this shows that the red-greens do not take individuals seriously. This falls on your own unreasonableness when you know how the red-greens have called about the work environment law and the employees' rights in the years we have run the country. I don't think we should use these arguments in the debate. So to the representative Skei Grande's description of the situation. I think she's absolutely right. I think it's hard to be alerts, and I think it'll be difficult in the future too. I also think that the wording proposed by the Left would be just as difficult, perhaps more difficult, or with the illegitimate regime that I believe is at the root of the wish of the Progress Party. But let me summarize what we agree on today. The opposition says they want change now. The government parties say, "We need to know what we're going to change to, so that it actually becomes an improvement." In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that it is natural for it to ‘re-examine alert provisions’ and that ‘new research has been carried out to enable this work to be carried out rapidly’. I'm assuming that "fast" means very fast, and that doesn't mean at the end of the period. Then we're going to look at how public oversight and government units work into this. We have to look at the role of the Labour Inspectorate, because I feel that what Skei Grande is now saying in the debate is different from what the draft representative says, and much easier to enter into a debate on. In the evaluation, we will look at how employees of subcontractors and hired workers' rights are respected. And of course, we have to listen to the experiences of those who have been through this, their advice will be very central to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1096	How many people according to the position are going through the legal system to do something about the law? I ask myself that question. Yes, for it sounds like a lot of people need a lot of people to do something. That's bad. For us, it's easy. We've been so lucky in society that we've been told this by those who are experienced, with knowledge of what doesn't work. They want to prevent because the process they've been through is not good. This actually makes us very humble. This shows a great next love, because they want others not to go through what they've been through. I'm glad to get the opportunity to support through these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1108	Let me just comment on a couple of the posts that have been here. When the department has said that we want to review the rules, that's actually what we want to do. And when we're going to review the rules, it's important to use the knowledge that we've now gained. At least as important it is to listen to those who have experience as alerts, but it is possible to do so without setting up a formal working group. When we're going to work on these questions, I think it's important that we listen to those who have experience as alerts. When we talk about getting good warning procedures, I think it's also important that rules are set up in the individual company on how to alert, as shown by examples from individual municipalities here, and as I experience being found in most departments. At least where I have been in, there are procedures for how alerts are to be used and implemented. But there I think it's a lot to come up with to get good rules that are accepted and known among the employees and management of the individual company. In any case, it ensures that routines are in place when you choose to take the load it is to be alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1117	It is not unusual that the representative Hoksrud misses contexts. But in this case I would ask that he at least quote correctly when he is going to represent his co-representatives. I therefore feel the need to say quite clearly that I am not sure – and I am asking the representative Hoksrud to notice – whether new legal clauses solve the legal protection that alerts that Per-Yngve Monsen needs. That's what I meant when I put emphasis on my post. Because these are the hidden mechanisms, the freeze-out, the career-stopping, social exclusion, etc., which are the mechanisms used at the workplace to get rid of critical elements. This has very much to do with attitudes out in business, and it's not always that we can solve using new law paragraphs. So I want to say in the end that it's not like the majority in this room is going against the minority proposal, we recommend that it be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1124	To the representative of Gullvåg: I heard very well what the representative said. But there are more than just legislative changes in the proposal from the Progress Party, namely that we want a proper evaluation, and that we want to establish a unit in the Labour Inspectorate, precisely to assist those who believe that you are a warner, in a good and proper way. Then I hear representatives from the government parties say from this pulpit that this is challenging because you need skills in many more areas. The problem today is that no one from the public can help, no one you can contact. When you contact the Labour Inspectorate and the few people who are sitting and working on this, they say that they do not have the means, that they do not have the opportunity to do what we want with this proposal, and that the Left has also proposed. It's about making sure that someone can help, and making sure that people don't go down – because they're experiencing economic ruin, because there's no one from the public who can help and say that this is a real warning case, or this isn't a real warning case, and of course could guide in a good way. I hear the council say that she has experienced that many departments, directorates and others have good routines. I have at least experienced the true opposite. By following up, for example: The Steinstad case could be seen as directorates who did not have any routines for handling alert cases at all, and who did not even choose to contact the alert after having been contacted and been informed of very serious conditions. I think that's serious. It is sad that the political majority in this Chamber do not take this seriously and will not ensure a review in departments, Directorates and other public bodies to ensure that procedures are in place to deal with alerts. It's like someone wants to wait – we want an evaluation, we just have to wait a little. For some, there should have been a warning case yesterday or a long time ago. They don't have time to wait. You need to put in place both a law and a unit that can help them find out if it is a real alert case or not. I want to repeat what LO State said: we've slept an hour. The majority of this room now has the opportunity not to continue to sleep an hour, but to support the proposals in these matters that the Progress Party alone or with others will have, proposals that will help to protect alerts in a much better way than today. It's obvious, when you talk to those who sit here and everyone else who makes contact, that the paragraphs and the way you deal with the alerts in total are too bad today. That is why we have promoted the draft representative we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1139	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1143	I just have to repeat: there is going to be a full review of this, and the Council of State has said it is going to happen quickly. Everyone is interested in it, everyone is interested in that this is going to happen in full width. As the representative Hoksrud says, there are many agencies that do not have the competence to do this. They have to, and we have to make sure they get that. Maybe we'll see that there's a need for a unit of our own. I'm not so sure, but I'm sure there's a lot left in many floors, so they can give the guidance that the individual alerts need. Then there's something left of the representative Tetzschner, who used the term "loyal." No, there's nothing in today's law about being loyal. It was a proposal that the opposition promoted, and that they realized was not good enough. But then they come back with proposals for a paragraph text, which none of them are in favour of defending, because it concerns the clean protection of the company's interest, and not the protection of the alerts and the public. I think it is sad not to discuss this, because it is a reality that the legal paragraph that the opposition is proposing today would put the alert in a much more difficult situation – placing him in a loyalty relationship to the company and not to the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1152	I'm only taking the floor because it might seem that the representative Hoksrud is having a bit of a hard time for it today. It has been said several times that an evaluation should be launched quickly. That's what the opposition is asking for. I believe that it is only the left in this room that has a phase on the table as to what legal provision they want to apply. In any case, it is those who have proposed this in their proposal for a representative, together with the proposal on alert unit. What one sees here, I see as a kind of theater, about being the most alert. When we say clearly in the form of a note – and as the Council of State has also said – that one should have an evaluation and that one should start this work quickly, that is what we are asking for. And I think a total big deal agrees on that. One should discuss how to carry out this evaluation in the most effective way possible, rather than making it a type of discord in this room. That's not a reason. I will end by saying to the representative of Hoksrud that the work on the evaluation will start quickly, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1163	Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1166	The representative Hoksrud doesn't have much to do with it. I keep recording that you always say that you have to start the evaluation quickly, but you don't want to say when you have to finish it. We say in the proposal that it will be done in 2011. It is about getting this evaluation done as quickly as possible, and about taking seriously the signals you receive from the alerts. But it is clearly important for the government to promote the proposals themselves instead of supporting good proposals – all of which they say they agree – that come from the opposition. Unfortunately, the consequence is that many who are actually alerts will not notify. They don't dare do it because the costs and consequences are so great. Instead, you choose not to do so until you have put in place both a warning unit and a real piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1173	It's just a short remark to clarify an obvious misunderstanding, because the way I used the term "loyal," as referred to by Karin Andersen, was just the misunderstood loyalty. It will be evident from the context in which I said it – so it's clear. When I first take the floor, I would also like to say that it is a disadvantage that the papers discuss the legislative proposals of the proposers without looking at what is today's legal text. Then you will see that it is not here that the proposers have wanted a change in the legal situation. The argument put forward by the representative, Mr Andersen, falls short, because there are other aspects of the safety requirement that the proposers have elaborated in their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1180	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Votation, see pages 1227 and 1228]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1196	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1205	I think I should first of all like to thank the rapporteurs for raising the issue. The approach to this theme is the integration of citizens from outside the EU. I guess the question is, do we do the job of integrating them into the world of work well enough? Do we use the tools that we have available today in a good and useful way? The starting point of the opposition in this matter is, I believe, important to address, even though the majority of the committee has not joined the proposal. We agree that we need to integrate more into the labour market. We have to define what is the consensus, and what is the disagreement. I define that we have some common starting points for the debate. We agree that Norway is among the world’s highest standards of living. In fact, we are drawn to the best country up to several times – fortunately by others than ourselves. We also agree that in recent years there has been an increase in labour mobility internationally, and we agree that migration and mobility across borders are likely to increase in the coming years. We know that it will create challenges. We agree with the objective of integrating more people into the labour market. When we describe the consensus, we also have to describe where we separate layers. The first point I would like to point out is that as unemployment increased in the general population as a result of the financial crisis, unemployment among immigrants moved in line with the relative growth of the rest of the population. Or said in a good Norwegian language theme: they did just as well as other Nordics when the financial crisis came and the unemployment increased. It is important to take with us when we are going to consider what we can do to achieve the goal of more people at work. Today, we are dealing with a proposal to deprive those who have not had work in the last 24 months of the right to cash benefits, but only on condition that they come from a non-EU country. So the group we're talking about is the long-term unemployed who have the right to stay in Norway under the laws and regulations that we've adopted. The benefit we're going to take from them is social support. The wish of the proposers is to introduce this group into work by removing basic income hedges for basic needs. I have to interpret, because it's not clear in the text: you don't get a job, you don't get money for food and houses. But it only applies if you are long-term unemployed and originally come from a country outside the EU. In today’s social service law, there is scope for requiring social assistance beneficiaries to pursue their activities. Today, when this home is used, it is primarily in connection with young social welfare recipients. The next group is the immigrant population. That means that today we're using the activity requirement or an alternative offer, because we see that it can be a right solution. In March 2010, i.e. This year, we introduced the system of redundancy payments in order to be able to use the tools we have, more focused. We think that will actually make it easier to do the right actions for people who need help. The government has also designed and implemented the qualification programme in order to provide a more targeted offer to those receiving long-term social support. It's a program that has an element of carrot and whip, which is a little bit more than what the proposers are asking for. The carrot is that you get a longer period of decision. You can focus on coming back, and you don't have the uncertainty. You will receive more money if you commit to getting back or entering the job. You have to set up and do a job yourself. What's needed is very different, but you can't keep the benefits if you don't follow the agreement. It means less money in plain text. We believe that. It's an element that has both carrot and whip. The difference with today's proposal is that it does not open up to eliminate the right to meet basic needs such as housing and food. The other significant difference is that it does not distinguish which country you were born in. Today, the requirement is imposed on you as a human being and not on the nationality of your birth certificate. We have a social service law where activity can be required. When you get a residence permit, you get rights and obligations in line with other citizens in the country. It is, in fact, on the grounds that the majority of the Committee rejects the proposal by the representatives of Robert Eriksson, Per-Willy Amundsen, Vigdis Giltun and Laila Marie Reiertsen in Innst. 61 S today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1231	In recent years, we know that the mobility of labour internationally and immigration into Norway have increased. High levels of migration and cross-border mobility are likely to continue in the future, even if we want some fluctuations, from the economic cycle. The Progress Party believes and is committed to – that is why we have also promoted this proposal – that we need to acquire knowledge, knowledge and not least understanding of how the increased migration affects our welfare system. Unfortunately, I note that Norway is one of the countries that has not succeeded in getting more immigrants into the labour market to the same extent as some other countries. Looking at Eurostat’s statistics, it can be seen that only two countries are behind Norway in terms of the 2009 figures. It is Portugal and Spain, which have managed to reduce the number of immigrants entering the labour market. On the other hand, countries such as Germany, Denmark and Finland, which have made much clearer and concrete demands for welfare-related activities, are finding that they have actually succeeded in getting far more immigrants into the labour market. In Denmark, the 450-hour rule has been introduced, which means that a married couple where either or both of them receive cash assistance must – both parties – meet the requirement for 450 hours of regular work in the last 24 months. The purpose of the 450-hour rule is to contribute alone to the principle that working is worthwhile, and that with the right to welfare benefits as cash assistance, in the Danish case – I am aware that we have other types of welfare arrangements in Norway – the obligation to be available also follows. I think it's a good principle, it's a good and an interesting principle that I think you should also be included in the Norwegian debate. Looking at what the Danish Minister of Employment has said in the Jyllands-Posten, she points out among other things. that the 450-hour rule has been one of the most important simple steps taken in Denmark to make it possible for more immigrants to enter the labour market. I am aware that the government has reduced its own sample. If I don't remember correctly, I think it was 8 May 2009 that we put down a sample to look at the context in relation to increased immigration into and emigration from Norway, and how this affected our welfare system and our welfare systems. Furthermore, if I do not remember errors, this sample will present its position in May 2011. Why can't you look at the countries that have actually succeeded in doing something? Why can't you also include those elements in this sample? Why can't the Storting give any clear signals to the government that we want to go deeper into these areas – to learn, get more understanding, get better knowledge to figure out what's going on, instead of sitting back and saying no, we're not going to look at what the other countries are doing, we're going to reinvent the wheel? That's what I think is a passive way to tackle the big challenges. I think it is useful to learn from the countries where it has worked, and from the arrangements that have worked. Then I'll finally be allowed to point out something. There are some who, indirectly, have also tried in the debate in the open room that the Progress Party here wants to bluecopy the Danish system. No, we don't want that. If you read the proposal, it is clear that we want to apply the principles of the Danish proposal, but this needs to be adapted to the Norwegian welfare systems and the system we have in Norway. I think we have great opportunities to introduce, among other things. a more clear obligation for both immigrants and everyone else to have a much more clean workline in the future. With that, I take up the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1252	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1255	I want to start with two clarifications. The first one goes to the President-in-Office. It's quite a misrepresentation to present this as if you should refuse people water and bread. First of all, social law, i.e. emergency aid paragraphs, applies to absolutely everyone, whether you have legal residence or not. There is no fundamental difference between the requirements proposed here, at least in the comments to which the Right has joined, and today's system, where one has the opportunity to make such demands. And I am absolutely sure that the representative does not believe that people in today's social system refuse water and bread – or food or entirely basic social benefits. That's not the point here. So also just a little nuance. Denmark is very nice – it’s delicious to be Norwegian there, there’s a civil government there and at all – but it’s also so that we’re going to bring ourselves in the back of the mind that although it’s right that the employment rate for minorities – immigrants, as we call them a little skeptical – has gone up in Denmark and down in Norway, Norway still has a higher level of employment, just so we’re aware of it, so that we have a realistic starting point. For the Right, this matter is really very simple about a very basic principle, namely that we have said – we have proposed in this room, as we still stand for – that we want a right and an obligation to activity for recipients of social assistance, a fundamental principle. It's about the right to demand activity, but also about the obligation to be active. It's based on the very simple belief that the Right has, that adults healthy people have a responsibility to take care of themselves and get a living to take care of themselves and their families. It applies wherever you come from. This applies if you come from Europe, if you come from Norway, if you come from Trögstad, Porsgrund or somewhere outside Europe. So the next question is, are we succeeding in the principles of implementing this as a practical policy today? There's a picture nuanced. But the examples where we don't succeed are many of them. We know, for example. the employment rate among Norwegian Somalis is alarmingly low. Among Norwegian-somal women, it's even lower, down to some twenty percent. It's too low. We know that employment among minorities in Norway is lower than that of majority Nordics. We also know that for a lot of people, what meets you when you get to Norway is a welfare system that can't take you out of work, teach you Norwegian language, and make you a responsible Norwegian citizen – instead, you lock people into a passive life. Then we have to have both whips and carrots. In this case, it is simply a question of crushing a principle of having an activity obligation. It's important. When the Right is also involved in the comment and is in favour of the proposal, it is simply because we believe that this is a good idea, we want to look at this in more detail. When we refuse to vote in favour of the proposal and instead believe that it should be annexed to the Minutes, it also has quite simple reasons. First, it's 450 hours -- we don't know if it's the big and full truth that it's right where it has to be. The second is that we want to be absolutely sure that you have the opportunity to introduce a law that works differently, based on where the recipient comes from. But it is clear that this is in line with our work-line policy, it is in line with our policy of non-discrimination for all who live in Norway, and non-discrimination for both Norwegian citizens and others who receive social assistance – and we believe that this can help to get more people into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1268	The President interprets the speech of the representative, Mr Isaksen, so that he took up the proposal he referred to? - It's nodding. The representative of Røe Isaksen has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1273	I would like to join the rapporteur's statement, but I also have some comments on what has been said in the debate here. One is whether ideas and arrangements from other countries should be considered when looking at this in the future. Yes, of course we should, but it's also true, as the representative of the Right's axis was up here and said, that the employment rate in Norway, including for immigrants, is higher here, just as it is for the general population, than in countries that have other types of schemes. Then there's reason to think it a little bit up against history, what we're doing here in the country that actually ensures that there's a larger part of the population that's at work than in some other countries. It is in a way made a problem that people in this country who are either sick or not qualified for work or who do not get work have something to live on. That's the problem, that they actually get a benefit and not that they actually don't get a job. So that's the question of this right and duty. The government has now put in place a very cutting-edge system called the Qualification Programme and the Qualification Aid, which the Progress Party is typically opposed to. It is a system that is aimed at people who are without rights in their rights and who are to depend on social assistance, where a safe performance is added together and measures to ensure that they are both able and able to work. There is a system that I think we should bet more strongly on in the future, because I am absolutely sure that this technique will also work very well for very many of those who come moving to the country. Then we also increase language training. We know that it is very important that everyone who is going to have a job in Norway needs to be able to speak well. So that's that right there. But then we can also see if what we do in context, always works well enough. I have raised the question several times about whether we are doing the right thing in relation to asylum seekers and refugees who come here to the country, by not granting them temporary work permits while they are waiting for their application. In fact, I believe that we have to consider this thoroughly again, because that means that there is a very long period of time when you are sitting completely passive, sometimes in a rather isolated place in addition, without getting to know either the Norwegian language or the Norwegian working life, or getting to know it. It's quite possible to give people a biometric identity, so at least one has one identity. If the identity of the home Member State is unclear, it must also be possible under such circumstances to grant a type of temporary work permit. I am absolutely sure that it would be a much better contribution to the success of more people in the Norwegian working life, that from day one, when people apply for residence in the country, we also had an offer and an obligation to contribute to activity and language training, etc. There is also a need to look at the different social benefits we have, for example. the cash support, which we have discussed very many times, and which helps to keep the mother away from work and school, and the children away from kindergarten – hardly any good contribution to more people coming to work and caring for themselves. It may also be necessary to consider whether to strengthen the transition benefit in the future in such a way as to put in place much greater opportunities for language training and for training and skills-enhancing in general, so that more people can acquire the skills they need to actually get and keep jobs in Norwegian working life. The government has put down this broad sample to look at all these questions, and we'll review them when the proposals come back. There is probably a need to look at changes in some of these schemes, but I think the greatest challenge we have is to have action, and to combine both language training, action and education in such a way that one actually succeeds when one has implemented it, and that we also have a working life that accepts, and does not discriminate on the basis of name or ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1288	High employment is one of the main objectives of this government. Compared to other European countries, the growth in unemployment in Norway has been relatively modest, and the relative growth in unemployment for immigrants overall in the last year has been roughly equal to the growth in unemployment for the rest of the population. Work effort creates values and bases for welfare schemes. Moreover, for immigrants, work plays a crucial role in the successful integration into society. Immigrants are therefore a priority group for labour and welfare management measures and instruments, in line with youth and long-term unemployed. The working line is a guideline for all activities at the Nav offices. Economic social assistance for employed persons is therefore linked to the conditions of active job search and an obligation to accept the job offered. The condition is governed by the Social Services Act of the Labour and Welfare Administration. For people who, for various reasons, need close and individual follow-up in order to get into work, the qualification programme provides effective work training for subsequent transition to work. The Qualification Programme is nationwide from this year onwards and has already shown good results, including for immigrants from outside the EU. Programme actions involve immigrants and Norwegian unemployed beneficiaries on the same footing. I believe that this is a good thing, even from an integration point of view. The working line as a principle has guided the design of the whole of labour and welfare legislation, both for government and for municipal legislation. In addition, the Norwegian welfare systems are the same for all legally resident residents: the entry conditions are individual and related to the individual’s need for assistance, not ethnically. It also applies to the provision of living quarters. The proposal by Eriksson, Amundsen, Giltun and Reiertsen is aimed at imposing an employment obligation on groups of immigrants receiving public social benefits. Reference is made to Denmark, which has introduced a requirement for 450 hours of ordinary and unsupported work in the last 24 months to maintain the right to cash assistance. Here I would also like to add that the Danish social security obligation applies in general and is not specifically targeted at groups of immigrants. However, I agree with the proposers that international mobility requires knowledge of how increased migration over time affects and is affected by the Norwegian welfare model. It is therefore, as has been said in this Chamber before today, that a public body has been set up to look at this issue and outline proposals for any changes and adaptations to the instruments to ensure sustainable development. In parallel, a public committee on inclusion and integration policies assesses a wide range of measures, including measures to promote the participation of migrant women in work. Once these two samples have completed their work, the government will provide a broad review of possible measures to improve employment among immigrants. Samples submit their reports in May/June 2011. Both the fact that the basis for employment is already in our welfare legislation and that the last two samples have not yet produced their reports suggest, in my opinion, that it is not appropriate now to consider a proposal to introduce a 450-hour labour obligation rule for groups of migrants receiving lifelong benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1306	It is true, as has been said from the pulpit earlier today, that the employment rate is higher in Norway than it is in Denmark. But what worries me is that the arrow goes down in Norway, while it goes up in Denmark when it comes to employing immigrants. The Council of State concluded its contribution by saying that she did not think it was right to consider such a proposal right now. Firstly, does the Council of State think that it might be interesting to follow the principle of a 450-hour rule, as has been done in Denmark, and will she take it further? Secondly, in view of the social services law today: does the Council of State wish and will it facilitate the introduction of legislation, so that a clear obligation of activity is also given to stimulate the follow-up of the work line to a much greater extent than that of today's legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1318	When it comes to finding good measures to get more people to work, I am confident that the two public authorities that we have set up will do a good job and give us good suggestions on how to do it. I also think it is important that the type of sample looks to the experience that has been gained in other countries. Then I might think that there might be some surprising results from Denmark, when you see a little bit more of what the figures in Denmark actually say. There may be differences in the estimates for immigration — who are immigrants and the proportion of immigrants with different backgrounds in each country, etc. There is clearly consideration that we have to take into account in the further work. As far as the legislation on the obligation of activity is concerned, I see it as clear. I assume that it is used when it is appropriate to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1327	The Council of State assumes that the Code is in use. But does the Council of State have any reason to assume that? As far as I know, a study was carried out one or two years ago asking the staff at the Nav offices whether they used this. I guess that's where the majority of the parties have picked up their claim that it is used most for young people and immigrants – it was found in that survey. But apart from that, we don't, I know, have any tools to figure out to what extent this possibility is being used — annually, for example. You don't get any reports on it. We had an interpellation about this from the undersigned for a while back. It just illustrates the problem. There's a lot of possibilities in our law, but we don't know how much they're going to be used. Can the Council of State help to tighten it up, so that the Storting can at least get an overview of the extent to which these instruments are used out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1336	The aim of the schemes we have created in Norway is firstly to create social security for those affected and are out of work. Secondly, it is to ensure that more people are able to get into the labour market, and that in Norway we have a completely different situation than in most other countries. We have lower leave and more employees in the vast majority of areas. It's an important goal for me that we have a policy that works and that helps more people get into work. It is probably possible to collect statistics and spend a lot of time and effort figuring out how to treat individuals. I think the main goal must be the situation we see on the labour market, and that many come in. The qualification scheme is an important instrument, which we are now rolling out. We get reports that it's an important and proper tool to use for the group we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1343	I don't disagree with any of what the council says now – at least very little of it. But that is not what this is all about. Let me rephrase the question and ask it in another way: Where does the Council of State get information on the extent to which the possibility of imposing regulatory activity is being used? Can the Council of State refer to where she gets the statistics, when she believes that there is widespread use of it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1350	I can't say here which statistics and which documents we're getting this from. We have active etat management against Nav, and we get reports from Nav on how Nav's instruments are used at all times. I am unable here and now to refer to which underlying documents can support it in detail, but I would like to come back to the representative of Røe Isaksen after we have checked it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1355	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1358	I feel like clarifying a little in relation to what we are discussing – and then to the representative of Røe Isaksen. So the proposal that is on the table today is – I read it for the sake of order: ‘The government is asked to propose a 450-hour rule, in accordance with the model from Denmark, adapted to Norwegian social security systems, setting out specific activity requirements for immigrants outside the EU area in order to be able to access Norwegian welfare schemes.’ I think it's actually where the disagreement arises -- the ability to access the welfare systems, given to the country of origin you have. That's where you separate layers. It is difficult to interpret it in a different way when it comes to a tightening up of the current system, where there is an obligation to operate. When you haven't had a given number of hours for work in the last two years, it's hard to interpret it as anything but weakening the right to social services, as it exists today. Emergency law applies to all those who come to the country, if they are just memoranda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1368	I would first like to refer to the statements made here by the Council of State and the President of the case, which I think are very good and clear, and where it is well explained to this matter. What I'm wondering about is that the Right Party and the Advance Party categorically determine that they are principled in this matter, and that these are important principles that apply to everyone. As I read the proposal and what lies in the matter, this is a special policy for a special group of people, i.e. for those who do not come from the European Union and are immigrants. They shall be given a job to receive cash benefits or, in fact, to receive welfare benefits, as proposed by the Progress Party. In other areas of welfare benefits, these two parties are committed to referring to their own ideology of freedom of choice. Cash support, parental leave, etc. shall not be followed up by the same obligation of employment for both. There shall be individual choice and individual freedom to receive cash benefits from the social security system. So what's principled in the Right and Advance Party's policy, as I see it, is that they make a difference between people. Some people are going to have access to benefits in line with being Norwegian citizens in Norway, while those coming from outside the EU area are going to have different rules for them to have access to the same benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1379	I was about to say that there are good people who are principled on the line of work, because the Workers' Party has stopped being. I just wanted to make it clear that there is a reason why the Right is not on the proposal, which I also explained in my post. We have a proposal to annex this protocol. But unlike the government parties, we're not afraid to discuss new solutions to get people into work. We are committed to having the duty of activity, the right and the duty of activity for all, while the government parties have made it a sport to vote down – and hang on – all the good ideas that come from the opposition, instead of treating them and discussing them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1386	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1228]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1404	In the 1950s and 1960s, when the economy was growing steadily, when the need for labour increased in the private and public sectors, and most countries experienced simply a lack of labour, many of them were treated as a reserve army of workers: the housewives. Many of them were tired of rusting at home and being maids for men and children, without challenges, without power and without money. They needed labour, and the housewives wanted work. That's how a lot of women's intoxication got into modern working life. The state subsequently facilitated the admission of women through kindergarten development, parental leave, change in tax rules, and was given the practice of part-time work that would enable women to work while at the same time caring for their responsibilities as caregivers. Of course, for the man was a caregiver, the woman was a caregiver. Our workforce is our largest resource. That's each other's work we're going to live with. That is why the main task of the government is to combat discrimination in the labour market and the fight against unemployment. People should not only have a living income, they should also have a working environment and a working time to live with. Even if we have to recognise at a historical glance that part-time work was crucial to getting women to work – perhaps we can say that the opportunity to work part-time was one of the prerequisites for equal opportunities at the time – we are there today that the extent of part-time jobs is the biggest obstacle to achieving a just equal working life. Today, more women want to work full-time than full-time jobs are available to them. Over 40 pst. Women in the labour force work part-time today, and one in five of these work part-time involuntarily. There are women in health and care professionals. So women went to work, but they took over the traditional care work that, with the growth of the welfare state, was lifted from the responsibility of the private to the public – and there we are still. We have a lot of material that shows us both the amount of involuntary part-time work and the consequences it has for individuals and for society as a whole. The latest current research report came in autumn, from Fafo. It shows that women have gradually increased their working hours over the last ten years. Several have had full time, and long part time has become more common. But the Fafo survey shows us that a total of 12 psts work. of all men part-time, for women, the number is over 40 pst. Let's just say that many jobs volunteer part-time. It's okay, and it's important. In particular for young people, part-time work will allow you to combine study with income and gain a foothold in the workplace. In this context, we do not see part-time as a problem. Voluntary part-time in periods of life when appropriate is a strength. While it turns out that men work part-time early in life, combined with education, and late in life, perhaps combined with retirement, it's like women stay in part-time work through life. As Fafo shows – and as we have known for too long – there is often an involuntary desire and a need for more work. That is what is serious, and that is what needs to be combated. We can't afford to let go of the fight against involuntary part-time work. The women involved obviously cannot afford it, and we as a society with a need for labour cannot afford it either. Although we have seen a decline in involuntary part-time over the last ten years, and although we have also taken many steps to counteract involuntary part-time during this government, it must be more strongly directed towards this type of unemployment. We have to start calling it just that. Involuntary part-time is unemployment, it's female unemployment, and it's unemployment that's to be combated with just the same strength as we're fighting other unemployment. What are the consequences of the high level of underemployed women? In all, the focus on equal pay is recognised that half of the pay gap between women and men is due to the position of women as part-time workers against full-time men. So that's the most important factor for different pay. It has many serious consequences for the individual. People who work part-time obviously have lower wages than those who work full-time. Part-time jobs follow a life out. That's why there are most female minimum pensioners. Part-time work rarely gives access to mortgages and that kind of thing, and it obviously solves the quality of life for all those who want to work more, but who don't get it. Work is a source of joy and self-realization. Experience not getting involved is negative. Part-time work obviously means more economic dependence on others, and our social security systems are largely linked to salary levels and own income. We know that jobs with extensive use of part-time have a worse working environment than other jobs, and poor ground crews are stressful and, in turn, lead to higher sick leave. All of this is known to all of us. Bunks of research have shown this for a long time, and in the name of equality and in the line of work, we can't sit and see that this continues. We need more hands at work in the coming years, and the part-time workers are a badly needed labour resource. That's why we've notified Soria Moria that we're going to do more in the fight against involuntary part-time. And we've started. We have equalised shifts/turns, we have introduced preferential rights in the Working Environment Act, and we have set aside 25 million in the budget for next year at the latest. kr for local trials. This is important grip, and a very good start. Involuntary part-time time has many reasons, and therefore requires a number of solutions. It's important that we now evaluate what we've done, that we look at the effects of what we've done, and then look at what we can do. Of course, the Equal Opportunities Communication refers to the issue, and we warn that we will come back with an assessment of new initiatives in the Work Environment Communication submitted in the spring. So it's an important work we're about to do. When we go into that work, of course, we should consider the requirements we know that many environments, including trade union movements, have been around for a long time, and what they point to from possible solutions. Furthermore, it is important to look at, for example: the requirement for a statutory full-time entitlement, which is well known to all of us, and the possibility of imposing a statutory obligation on employers to discuss regularly the use of part-time with trustees. When we know so much that part-time workers do not meet their demands for an enlarged position, we must also consider turning the principle into a work environment law so that the burden of proof is placed on employers when there is no possibility of a higher position. We should look at the possibility of extending the system of regional protection agencies, and we can also see whether it can be made less economically lucrative for employers to use a lot of part-time workers. So there are many concrete demands and creative suggestions on the table that can help us fight against involuntary part-time. Of course, we're going to take these further and evaluate them properly. I look forward to getting more good proposals on how to combat involuntary part-time in the debate today, and also in the further debate that is about to take place. It is important that there is a broad focus on general gender equality measures so that we also change attitudes – attitudes that still require women to take on worse working conditions than men. We can no longer live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1432	Involuntary part-time is a form of unemployment and must be combated as other unemployment. That is why there is an important issue that is raised for debate here by the representative of Anette Trettebergstien. The problems also have an important gender dimension, since most are women involuntarily part-time. Estimates of how many people work part-time and would prefer to work more depend on the criteria used. Underemployed persons are a concept of statistical central agency using part-time workers who have tried to get longer working hours and can start with increased working hours within one month. By the second quarter of 2010 it was approx. 70 000 underemployed. The number increased from around this level in 2001 to reaching a peak of less than 100 000 in 2005 and was accordingly reduced in the previous ageing period, with some increase due to the financial crisis. So we've come a long way, but we can't say we're satisfied. 70 000 is 10 pst. of all part-time employees and 2,7 pst. by the labour force. The current Fafo note is interesting, among other things. because there is an analysis of SSB figures, which provides a general estimate of how many and who want longer weekly working hours than they have, regardless of whether or not they have tried to achieve this. Here it turns out that at the lower edge of 20 pst. part-time employees indicate that they want longer weekly working hours. As the representative of the Trettebergstien points out, there is involuntary part-time in many industries and occupations. At the same time, it is noted that in the relevant Fafo note, there is a significant difference in the part-time share and in the number of part-time employees seeking longer working hours between occupations. In particular, help nurses, carers, cleaners and shopkeepers indicate that many of the part-time employees who consider themselves mainly active indicate that they want longer weekly working hours. Involuntary part-time is more common among shift and rotation workers and among workers with low or no formal education than in other groups of workers. Fafo indicates that the proportion of part-time workers who want longer working hours is highest in women’s dominated professions without a requirement for higher education. It may look like there are pockets in the working life how many are struggling to achieve a weekly working time corresponding to their wishes. It is gratifying that a large part of the annual growth rate we have received in the care services in recent years has been linked to the fact that many municipalities have offered employees with small job breaks all or more jobs. According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, there has been an increase of about 6,000 annual works in the period 2005-2009, and the average governance has increased from 68 pst. to 72 pst. In 2003, the refresher found that the average period of underemployment was relatively short, approx. 6 months. However, it may appear that there are some differences between occupational groups and that some groups with short formal education, for example: auxiliary, skilled and caregivers, on average, have longer periods of leave. The government is therefore stepping up its efforts to reduce involuntary part-time and improve full-time opportunities. There are several examples that employers, in cooperation with employees, have found working-time arrangements and recruitment solutions that reduce unwanted and unnecessary part-time hours. For example, several municipalities have: implemented projects that have reduced undesired part-time. It is therefore a potential to reduce involuntary part-time by identifying the parties and contributing to the dissemination of such good solutions. The Government wants to support this work by contributing to the financing of different actions along two main lines: firstly, by providing support for projects that address the organisation of work in individual enterprises and the conditions at the workplace, such as: new local pilot projects and pilot projects, dissemination of knowledge and good examples and development of local competence. Secondly, we will contribute to trials and pilots aimed at continuing training of individual workers in order to strengthen their ability to move from part-time to full-time. The draft budget for the year therefore proposes 25 million. kr for this purpose and the aim is to extend the bet over three years. As amended by the 2005 Labour Environment Act, a priority was introduced for part-time employees to expand their position rather than for employers to re-employ. Disputes between the employer and the employee about this right may be brought before the dispute resolution board under the Working Environment Act. The scheme was evaluated in 2008 by the Shift/Turnus Committee. The sample considered that it was too early to say whether the provision had helped to reduce the amount of involuntary part-time overall, but that it had contributed to an increase in the number of job vacancies in many individual cases. I consider this provision an important tool in combating involuntary part-time and ensuring full-time for those who want it. The Ministry will review existing practices from the dispute resolution panel during 2011 with a view to assessing the proper functioning of the regulation. Gender equality between shifts and turns, as the government and the parties have now been clarified, will also contribute positively to limiting involuntary part-time. The shift/tournament committee stated that there are many employees today who only work every three weekends or less frequently, is a central reason for involuntary part-time work in the health and care sector, and that there is no escape from a certain increase in weekends in many tour schedules in order to reduce unwanted part-time. The new rules on gradual compensation for inconvenient working hours could make working weekends more attractive, and this is likely to lead to more voluntary weekend work. In that case, this could lead to a turnaround of the enterprises unless part-time use is made. Otherwise, the government is continuously considering the different options under the law, but the priority should now be to follow up and take effect in practice on the initiatives I have mentioned. Further work on involuntary part-time will be discussed in the Ministry of Labour’s Annual Report on Employment, the Working Environment and Safety, which is planned to be presented in the spring of 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1464	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am also looking forward to the further work. There is no doubt that here the entire government is committed to finding good tools to overcome the use of involuntary part-time. As I was in my first post, and I want to go a little bit more into it, those who work part-time today are also part of what we can call a working resource – perhaps a working reserve, a small working reserve. They represent about 1.5 pst. of the workforce, but those who work part-time are nevertheless an unused resource and are to be treated as such. We can also assume that if you use a different definition here – if you ask those who say today that they work part-time on a voluntary basis – you will also see that many of them say that if only conditions had been arranged for it, if only that and it had been changed, they could of course plan to work more or to work full-time. You have to question how much of the desired part-time is really wanted by the women. It's clear that at the bottom of that, there are most women working part-time, the traditional gender roles and expectations of women caring for homes and homes, and the man is the main caregiver. These gender roles are not yet broken, and the part-time problem is considerable evidence of this. The free choice is often governed by the underlying factors we ourselves may not reflect over there and then. It's just like that because it's always been like that. If we reduce the use of involuntary part-time, we will not only increase the quality of life for the person concerned. We are increasing equality in society, and we are also increasing access to labour. It will be important for our demographic challenges in the future. We are going to experience demand for labour in the future. We need more people employed in health and care. If we are to cope with the needs of the future with an ever-growing ageing population, reduced unemployment and underemployment are important prerequisites for achieving this. It is serious that the extent of part-time work in the health sector makes people not want to work there, when we know what kind of need we have for more labour in the future. I think that is an important element we should also include in the further debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1473	I fully agree with the representative of the Trettebergstuen who emphasises that part-time employees are an important labour force resource and will then be treated. It is absolutely right that when we look ahead in time, we will need an incredible number of more annual work in the care sector and in the health sector. What we have seen over the last four years — with a slight disturbance when the financial crisis came — is, fortunately, that when the government invested more money and focused on increasing the number of people employed in the care and care sector, there were several annual works there. Several years' work went to women who had part-time positions initially, and they got larger job breaks. It was good, because it was the workforce that had additional education, and that's something we have to focus on in the future. There has been a slight decrease in the part-time percentage among women, and there has been a similar slight increase in the part-time percentage among men. It shows that this is still a women's problem, because there are far, far more women working part-time than men. Then I fully agree with Anette Trettebergstuen when she says that the government is involved in these questions. There's a lot of commitment to these issues in the government, but it's just as important that we manage to engage, for example. the municipal sector, which employs a large number of those currently in part-time jobs. Fortunately, there are many good examples of municipalities starting work to deal with the part-time problem, and that is something we have to make sure to spread to those who have not started the job. Then we also have to make sure that there is more attention to the part-time problem in professions that today have not put the same focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1484	Anette Trettebergstuen may have delivered one of the most important interpellations this year. This is about the fight for full employment. This is about the fight for the workline. This is about equality. We are not concerned about those who volunteer part-time for shorter or longer periods because it fits with studies, the family situation or other relationships. But it's serious for us as a society if we don't succeed better than today in organizing our workforce more effectively, not least in terms of the situation we're going to have in the next decades with labour shortages, especially in the care and care sectors. It is doubtful to travel around to businesses and talk to especially women who experience living with uncertain income, low income, and who do not have the same opportunities for their children as the full-time working women, because the money book simply does not extend to. What is more amazing is perhaps how short some municipalities have come to take this issue seriously, because when the struggle for the labour force closes, the municipalities that do not take this job seriously will lose valuable labour. Not least, society’s signal to young people who are going to take educational choices must be clear and clear: it is desirable and it is necessary for many more to choose to take health professional or other health and care choices. But I also understand the scepticism that parents have when they're going to give advice to their kids, when there's opportunities for not getting a full-time job. The government takes this question seriously. We have also done something about the Working Environment Act, including: the right to an extension of the post. We've put in $25 million. in the budget for pilot projects and dissemination of knowledge, because it is not certain that where there are many part-time jobs, it is merely a problem of attitude. There may also be a lack of knowledge. That's why it's important that we spread that knowledge, the good ideas, about how we can organise this, so that more people get a full-time position. The most serious aspect of equality is, of course, equal pay. But we also know that we have a story where women have been dependent on men financially to make everyday life go wild. The fact that women have entered the labour market has also meant that women are not dependent on poor men to cope financially. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that with the large part-time percentage, more women are economically locked in poor conditions. I think we have different challenges in the public sector and in the private sector. What matters most is in the private service sector, where the level of organisation is low. It is not easy to stand up to an employer who wants to organise his work in a certain way, even if there is room to create expanded jobs and more full-time jobs. Providing a higher level of organisation is important, but trustees in the service sector need to get a few more tools in their fight for better working conditions for members. I think it is particularly important to look at how it is possible to turn the burden of proof over to the employer, so that the employer has to justify why it is not possible to have more full-time jobs. This question is about the line of work. It's about women's independence. It's about equal pay, and not least it's about fair distribution. No proposals should be rejected in this debate. We have no choice but to succeed. The decades ahead give us great challenges in securing enough labour and achieving the important goal, which I feel the Storting is all about, ensuring a safe and worthwhile old age for all those who need it. But the effort in the care of the elderly also gives us great opportunities, because we know that the number of annual works is going to increase dramatically in the years to come. Then we have to make good use of this possibility, and it should not be acceptable for new businesses to be set up without providing enough full-time jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1499	Thank you very much to the interpellant for taking on an important theme, which concerns a lot of people. It's important that we have multiple moments here to take care of at the same time. In today's society, there are only 54 000 people in the care sector who want more options. This is alarming given that in the future we will need a lot of labour in this sector, and that we can risk losing many people who go into other occupations because it is not possible for a single person to live on small fractions, and that someone is working more places to fill up the percentage itself. This in turn leads to an unfortunate stress situation for the individual worker and may lead to additional sick leave and a severe deterioration in the quality of life in general. Many people have a heavy responsibility in relation to involuntary part-time and not least in relation to a full-time job as a permanent job. The employer has the greatest responsibility here and must engage in dialogue with the organisations and the employee themselves to increase the number of job vacancies. You may not need to work too hard in the call for free settings, which may also be flexible for organisations. One should agree that some of the job vacancies need to be part of a whole staff policy, where a priority is to give some settings to those who already have small job fractions, just to get more options, and that one has a plan that says something about what expectations it can add when it happens. One may be able to give over time so that one gets a desired job percentage, and not least a permanent position, which is not obvious, as many today go out and years into the vicaria. It is very unfortunate that, in the context of the Act on Temporary Addition, which was amended this year, one has not done anything to state enterprises where the health sector as such is most active and where there are very many part-time settings. The last serious example in relation to the future is that a company would like to have more part-time options. It's a mockery of the workers and not least of the women. In this case, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right have a proposal in connection with the Health Budget which says that, by virtue of its role as health care professionals, a government council has assumed responsibility for ensuring more stable working conditions for adding to health services, which the position does not support, unfortunately. Part-time settings make individuals less independent, e.g. in relation to equality and the desire for own housing. Then there are a lot of people who don't get bank loans because of small part-time settings and vikariat. At the same time, it's a bad signal to give, as we have a society that's going to scream for these workers in the future. In this part-time debate, we also need to discuss the issue of sick leave. We know that in the care sector there is a great deal of sick leave. In fact, part of the absenteeism rate is stable. A person who employs two people should then say something that so much and so much of it as a user on sick leave must be included in the basic staffing standards for the individual workplace. One can do something with more things. More people can increase their position. You go with an extra crew, which makes it easier when someone's not around. Then let go of the extra crew and the stress around the convocations. One gets a better everyday life for the person added, and the users get more and most likely better help, and one gets sick leave in the long term. One then gets a better working day for everyone involved. It is not to be overlooked that more flexible rotation and shift arrangements are also needed to bring up participation in larger settings, which has been debated here in the past. It is also important in this debate to say something about the fact that one must also respect those who do not want to have greater options. There should also be room for these. Some of them are students who have no ability to work more than in small fractional settings, often in connection with weekends, in order to gain good work training and experience within different occupational groups for further recruitment. Then it is important that you have part-time settings, because after all, the turns should be good for everyone, regardless of the size of the job and the needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1514	I would like to thank the representative of Trettebergstien for addressing the problem. Unfortunately, the exceptions are that representatives think for themselves, outside the party programme, and interfere with their own government. I think that's very positive. I just want to say that I think we should have more stuff like that in Stortinget. We're all happy with our parties, but we're not allowed to lose our critical sense even if you're elected to a party program. This applies both to the right and to the left of the policy. It's an important issue – and I repeat it when everyone says it. I notice that there is a problem where analysis is richer than on instruments. You're richer in party speeches and descriptions than on suggestions for what you actually want to do. I'll come back to it a little bit later. I think it is very good that the representative Trettebergstuen, together with several, makes it clear that it is also good for many to have a part-time position. If you want to work part-time, you should of course have the opportunity – not least in a situation where we are discussing how to get more people, who are now totally or partly out of work, into working life, part-time jobs with slightly less workload may be good and important. I want to nuance the debate a little bit, because I think it might make us come a little bit more to the root of the problem. The first thing I want to point out is that there is, of course, a certain danger that as the health and care sector grows, as it does, and there will be more full-time jobs, but also more part-time jobs, there will almost automatically also be more people who want a full-time job. This means that the problem already exists – the more people enter part-time jobs, which are not necessarily negative, the more people want a full-time job. I also want to refer to a research report that came in 2004 from Hardoy and Schøne, which shows that after one year has 30 pst. of those who are part-time but want to have a full-time job, have not received a full-time job. Of the 20 pst. who wants a full-time position, it is after one year 30 pst. who have not received a full-time job. It is also important to keep with them — not to make the issue smaller, but to stress that for most people, part-time work is not a lifelong judgment. It brings me to the third shade I think is important. It becomes a bit like comparing apples and pears when you use the point that the most important reason why there are differences in income between men and women is full-time/part-time. That is quite correct, but you have to remember that in that discussion you have also included all those who work part-time on a voluntary basis. I agree with the representative of Trettebergstuen and others that this is probably partly due to the fact that we have some traditional notions of gender role patterns, but I am perhaps more likely to think that the gender role patterns should be allowed to stay in their own homes – at least it is difficult to regulate more women directly into working life. Then to the concrete proposals. I would like to congratulate the representative of the Trettebergstuen on her proposals. I might have hoped, since she challenged the government, that there would be a bit of tense hysteria between the representative and the council, but notices that it is going on in relatively polite forms. It may have something to do with the fact that the Council of State does not really comment on the concrete proposals that the representative is making in the Newspaper today. Some of the suggestions I think are small in size. I don't think regional protection officers are important in this context. Having discussions I think is a completely all right idea, but I don't think it will have very much consequence. Making it more expensive to hire people in part-time think I'll hit those who actually want part-time, i.e. The majority who are in part-time today, who say that's the position they want. I am afraid that the law will in practice work against its purpose, both because it is practically difficult to implement, because it is difficult to figure out how to sanction this, and because to a very large extent the issue is about something else. What's this about? I think in most cases that's not bad will. Of course, some employers have a bad will, but to a very large extent there are three things: firstly, budgets. Secondly, it is about how to set up the tour and working time regulations, all the complications that can get around it. And thirdly, we have a working life that, although it's good in many ways, is built up according to the industrial worker norm decades ago. We have a working life that is built up in many ways after the old male industrial worker. If I am to make a positive final proposal, I would just like to point out all the excellent, exciting attempts at alternative tours that take place around Norway, many of which have also contributed to more women's full-time jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1537	I can reassure the representative Røe Isaksen that part of us women are not regulated into working life. We've been fighting to get there, and some of us are so old that we've been on this -- that there were quite a lot of counter-thinking about going out to work and getting your own income. This is not about the state over-regulating anything, but about creating framework conditions that allow women to make the same free choices that men have made at any time. I think that must sound good to the Right. The fact that women have entered Norwegian working life is also the biggest economic revolution we have had in Norway. That's really what has lifted our economy. This is at the root of its own seaworthiness, and there is an incredible amount of resources, expertise and knowledge that Norway is using. So the framework conditions for this aren't necessarily such that anyone who says they choose part-time, choosing it because they have these free choices. Then it's important that we look at what we can do with it. So it's a little bit strange to study branches that should be comparable. So if you sell screws and planks, you get full time. If you sell clothes, milk and bread, you get part time. And the shops are open for the same time. What does this have to do with anything? Yes, it's true that in hospitals you work around the clock. So do the police. In the police, 6 200 people are now working – in the statistics I have taken out. Of these, 7 work pst. part-time, and 80 pst. Of them, over 80 pst. There's a lot of men. The situation is quite different among nurses, caregivers, midwives and caregivers. Why is that so? This has something to do with the framework conditions. Then there's a reason to look at the legal provisions, and I'm going to come back to it a little bit. But let me just follow up on this a little bit with alternative ways of organizing the work. I've been to many places where they've organized the work in other ways, and I see that it's possible. For example, in Harstad, which I have brought up here several times before, they no longer work – they have shorter weekly working hours. They have had several full-time jobs, and they have lost their sick leave. They have also achieved what is important with full-time jobs, that of maintaining the skills that are there, and building up new skills, linked to people working more closely together in larger fractions. You don't have to deal with temporary workers like this, who have never been to that particular job before, or on that shift. It's very important to follow up such things. That is why the government has put forward proposals for money for this in the budget, and it is quite encouraging, among other things, to do so. The right-hand side says no to this money. The representative of the Progress Party was up and said that the government parties had no view of the requirements to be imposed on the health sector. Yes, they do. They have written comments in the Committee's opinion. «which underlines that the public sector should be a driver in order to prevent unwanted part-time. The Committee stresses the importance of dialogue with the social partners in order to arrive at concrete solutions. In the case of employment, the general rule shall apply to all posts.’ It is important for the government to follow up the budgetary work of the Storting in this area, and that the letters of allocation ensure that this is actually followed up, because it is very important. So for concrete things. A major communication on the working environment for spring is to be submitted. It has to seawardly mirror what we have to do to get ahead of this. SV has always thought that we have to legislate for full time. I agree with the proposals put forward by the representative of Trettebergstuen, but in addition I would like to raise another proposal, which Mr SV and Mr Lo agree. And it's that we have to introduce a kind of overtime payment – or more time supplement, as LO calls it – for overtime beyond the job break when you have involuntary part-time. I am absolutely sure that the extra costs of organising working time in so many small, impossible job breaks that you are now allowed to do would disappear quite quickly if the cost of doing so was not on the individual employee, but on the employer. And to put it like that, there's enough examples of where you really want to, you get it. I hope that we will come further with all these proposals in the big message that the government is going to present.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1561	I would like to pay tribute to the representative of Trettebergstien and thank her for addressing a very important topic. It is a topic that is not only about the working environment and working time regulations, but also of great importance for social differences in society. And the fight against involuntary part-time is not least a very important issue of equality. Many people work part-time here in the country – according to the Women's Panel, there are 673 800 people where most are women. 42 pst. of all employed women working part-time, while only 13 pst. of all employed men working part-time. It is true that there are people who actually want to work part-time. Some work part-time to get income from the studies, others work part-time because they want to have better time with the family for a period. Not least in our long-term country, we see that there are major local and cultural differences. It is not this voluntary part-time work that is the problem – it also points to the inter-pellant – it is the involuntary part-time that is the major challenge here. The main problem is all those who work part-time because they do not get more work or more hours by their employer. In the worst case, they work for long periods against the desired percentage of jobs, but they do not receive a job home and permanent employment. According to the Women's Panel, this is about 54 000 people – we know that there are very different views here – and we know that the Statistical Centre uses different numbers. But what's important is you find a way to think about what makes us do something with those who work involuntary part-time. I have received several enquiries, because in Sørlanden Hospital there is a fairly large proportion of people working part-time involuntarily, and the trustees have been very concerned about this matter. Every fourth part-time employee of the Sørlande hospital works part-time involuntarily, i.e. 425 persons. There's a lot of people who want to work to try and do something about it. A plan has now been submitted to the Sørlande Hospital for the use of cross-competence, which is to allow you to work on more units, to work more across the board, and to fill your skills so that you can carry out the work. Involuntary part-time is a problem. It's a problem for them. It's awfully frustrating not to have the opportunity to work enough and earn enough, to want to work more, but not to be allowed. The labour force is, of course, something society badly needs. It is a challenge for society to facilitate the use of the labour that is actually available. In addition, it is an important equality problem that women are not given the opportunity to support themselves and their families. Part-time work is an important reason for the large differences in income between men and women. That is why in the Christian People's Party we will work against involuntary part-time. The Christian People's Party believes that the rule of exception that an increased position can be denied if this would result in a «significant disadvantage to the business» must be interpreted strictly. A better strategy must be put in place to exploit legal and contractual rights in order to expand job breaks and improve skills and job content. This is particularly important in the health and care sector, but also in the retail sector, how many women are struggling to get enough work to support themselves and the family. Many workplaces have found solutions that prove to be effective in reducing the proportion of involuntary part-time. We need to facilitate the provision of opportunities for companies to find such solutions. The municipalities that have achieved the most reductions in involuntary part-time are those that have introduced different forms of flexible working time arrangements. The rotational planning is then carried out with contributions from the employees themselves, who distribute guards with different burdens between themselves. There are several examples of flexible working time arrangements that can show good results. I think it's important to make an effort to end the involuntary part-time. It's an important fight, it's an important fight for the Christian People's Party, and I want to thank the interpellant for putting an important debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1580	I would also like to thank the representative, Mrs Trettebergstuen, for a good initiative. Full-time and part-time working arrangements are extremely important for society, for working life and not least for family life. The Nordics work most part-time in the Nordic countries. Nearly three out of ten workers work in reduced jobs, and most of these are women, many of whom have been involved. 43 pst. women have part-time positions, but only 13 pst. men. Small and part-time jobs are particularly common in care, kindergarten and SFO. Small positions down to 10-12 pst. has often arisen in order to get crew cabals to go up within daily services. This is a result of financial management and some regulated labour regulations, not for human needs, neither by residents nor by employees. The possibility of part-time work was a women's requirement in the 1970s. Perhaps, therefore, this has become hanging again as an obsolete structure in today's working life. Consideration of both users and employees suggests that the highest possible position is the best, and therefore a good employer policy must strive to ensure that the entire position is normal. A good employer shows flexibility in relation to employees' own wishes and needs. Depending on the life phase, employees may want less than full employment. Questionnaires among part-time employees show that some still want less than full-time jobs. The center party is primarily concerned that everyone who wants a job to live with, and who is not offered it today, gets it. Many municipalities are busy doing something about both unwanted part-time and working time systems in general. This is important in order to provide the best possible quality of service to the population, to be able to recruit good employees and to gain a good reputation as a good employer. There are many approaches that may differ in character. However, experience shows that the most important thing to come up with well-functioning schemes is to involve the employees in the navigation. Influence and control of your own work situation are essential for job satisfaction, job satisfaction and high attendance. The keyword is to promote the authoritative human being. Employees and employers may have different wishes and needs in relation to working time arrangements. However, experience shows that with more flexibility from both parties it is possible to find solutions that mean an improvement for all, including the inhabitants and users of municipal services. In Drammen, a steering group has defined unwanted part-time. It is by their definition a qualified person who: wish for a higher agreed working time may start with increased working time within three months is willing to accept an offer seam if it may involve changing workplaces and/or other applicable working time arrangements than he/she has in his/her position So there's a question that you have to be able to work in multiple places. A temporary pool may be one of several means of securing larger positions for those who want it. In the case of qualifications, it is often a prerequisite for an offer of increased/full-time employment that employees have the necessary qualifications, and the provision of qualified training is a good and necessary instrument. In the case of increased flexibility, there are many positive feedbacks over longer rotation periods in users with special needs, especially in relation to housing for disabled persons and others. In Buskerud, this is a good example from Hurum. There is a time bank, where one forms an obligating turn for a certain period of time in the future, and all working hours are put into the time bank with withdrawals of time or money in the event of a surplus of effort. There's good experience in this, because here's a business where there's a shortage of people, and it's easier to get more jobs than it would be if the situation were the opposite. One situation is that if you take an extra weekend watch or two, it gives you e.g. possibility of extra leave outside school holidays. The feeling of increased holidays and leisure time this provides is perceived as a positive quality at work for many. On the basis of the fact that the involvement of employees is the main criterion for success, a high degree of willingness to adapt from the employer to the scheme chosen should be demonstrated. This means that a municipality may have different types of working time arrangements, such as: in the case of nursing homes and in the case of housing. New and more flexible working time arrangements can make it natural and necessary for large-scale and trade unions to look at the legal regulation of working time with new eyes, for example. the provision for work only every three weekends. There are good reasons, both real and political, to be open to more flexible and flexible practices, which can serve both employees and users. But as I said, here it is essential that the employees and the employees' organisations are involved, so that you get into a system that implies that you have rights at the same time as you fulfil obligations. A whole is based on the social responsibility you have to have in your working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1615	‘There has never been talk of women’s work where they labor side by side with their men in the fields. It is only when work is interesting or paid that women's place in the labour market is discussed.» – I forgot the book where this says, at home, so I don't remember who said it, but I know that it was one of the first women to enter the University of England in the 1800s. And historically, it's not that women's place has been at home. My grandmother was a widow. She had three children, and she was in work from the man's death. It wasn't about eight-hour day. No, it was 12, 14 and 16 hours of work. This has been the case for women in Norway up through history. They've had a lot of work to do. Work has been largely unpaid, and it has been done at home. But there has only been a small elite who have been able to feed themselves at home, and even they had employed both servants and governors to care for the care tasks of children and sick people. I'll do some considerations around some relationships when we discuss equal pay and part-time and full-time. First I'll say a little bit about the myth of the turn. It hovers around such ‘truths’ that the tour requires changes to the working time arrangements in order for the tour to rise in some way. What is the basis for the tour is that you have enough money, that you have the right person in the right place, and that you choose a level of quality. The three conditions are to varying degrees represented around the workplace in Norway, and that is what is crucial for whether or not a person gets a tour. As others have mentioned here today, it is in employment where men mainly work. There's another one. But not where women work. What this matter is about, I think, is not whether we are going to talk about involuntary or voluntary part-time related to women's drugs. I think it's calling it voluntary part-time, actually is confirming that, within the women's schools, we accept that there is a difference between women and men. Women should continue to work part-time in a way. In my view, what we need to talk about is how we can organise that we can continue to create value in Norway – that Norway should have opportunities to expand the well-being we have in a good way. The government has taken many steps to achieve this. We made changes to the Working Environment Act, Prop. 64 L and Innst. 183 L for 2009–2010, where we organised even more so that the relationship between work, care and participation in civil society has been strengthened in legislation. That's the value we're building on: everyone should have a job, and they should have the opportunity to work and contribute what they can. The democratic challenges we face are formidable. That's why it's important for us as a society to be able to free up the labour resources that lie latent in the women's group that are currently affected by what is called involuntary part-time. So I'll talk a little bit about quality. There has not been so much progress in the debate here today. But I can tell you that I once visited a screw factory. There I asked if it was part-time work. It was just men working there. There was one who told me that he had had part-time work, but he had to stop it. Then I asked, "Why is that?" Well, because it went beyond the quality of his work. He had either a Friday or a Monday, and then he didn't know how the rotation and all the practical things around it were – it wasn't screws, it was big rigs – and it went beyond quality. I believe that we need to get into our position that the starting point for all work, whether it's in the health and care service or it's in the fire service or it's in the private sector, is that it's the quality of the work that's going to be leading for how we're going to organize ourselves. In Agder we have great challenges in living conditions. Part of it is linked to the fact that many women have involuntary part-time. They're caught in some kind of poverty, with a bad economy. I'm going to end up with the four points I think should be included – now I only get one of them I see, but I get to redraw. I'll have to take all four afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1642	It is only possible to have the word once in an interpellant debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1645	Flexible working life is an important theme. Our common ambition in this room is that as many people as possible will be involved in the work and that they will have to work as much as possible – as much as they want and can. For many, this will be working so-called full-time. On the other hand, many people want to work part-time, either because they don't want to work anymore or because they don't work anymore. And, of course, when someone wants to work part-time, this also triggers that job parts must be filled. Or another way: an employer who has a 100 pst. The post occupied in 60 pst. cannot create a new post of 100 pst. It has to occupy the remaining 40 pst. The debate on full time and part time tends to deal a lot about those who can and will work full time. It's understandable, and it's important, because there's people with needs and desires for full work, and there's a working-stock resource that you've been through here in the past. But we should not forget in this that there are many who work part-time, who do it because that's what they want. This is their access to participation in work, not only in parts of their lives, but also perhaps in the interests of their own health. When I say this, is it because it's all about the way we organize working life: do we solve the part-time problem by regulating more – i.e. legal full-time – or less by opening up the labour market and making it more flexible? Is the desire for full time for more through more central regulations fulfilled, or can we satisfy both those who want to work full time, and those who want to work part time, through more local regulations? Will we see more cases where unwanted part-time can be reduced through better framework conditions for employers, or will it be best for politicians, trade unions and others to take the lead? This is all about the Working Environment Act. I would also like to take the opportunity to remind you that we have just discussed a matter in this room where the Right has proposed a decoration of this, precisely because this would also help to get workers who want more work, better to meet, better to get the tour to fit the job better locally. The key is a lot in the public sector. In the submission of the Report on Gender and Wage, NOU 2008:6 of the Equal pay Commission, it was pointed out that there is equal pay for equal work in Norway, but that the pay gap between women and men is due to the sex-shared labour market. So, as the interpellant has been involved, women work most in the public sector, men most in the private sector. Women work most in the professions and sectors run exclusively by the public, men work mostly in the professions and sectors where the public and private sectors compete for the labour force. Women work more part-time than men, both self-elected and involuntary. The Commission also pointed out that the central model of negotiation in Norwegian working life is involved in concentrating this picture. The question of involuntary part-time is important because there are many people who are not allowed to work as much as they want – they want to work more. For most people, I also think it seems funny that so many people are walking around and want more jobs in these areas, when you see the shortcomings or areas of improvement that can just be in, for example. care for the elderly. If we look at the sectors where there are most so-called underemployed people, it is obvious that this is related to working-time regulation. In the care sector, there are relatively strict rules on rotation and working time. At the same time, we see that in cases where derogations from these provisions have been possible, the challenges of involuntary part-time have almost been fully met, as well as some other positive effects. The reason is that it is easier to plan the labour resource for the calculation to increase. This is an important debate, and I think it is important that we avoid approaching the debate with a both-and-behaviour. It is difficult to demand that everything be the same as before, while removing the concrete and unfortunate results of how we feel today. So we have to be a little bit changeable in several areas. This is an important debate, and I believe that the many proposals made by the representative of Mrs Trettebergstuen should be discussed further. I'm going to attend that debate, and the Right would like to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1664	It's an important topic the interpellant addresses today, and one of today's demanding equality issues, as I see it. For it seems demanding to find full-time jobs in women's homes with extensive use of the tour. The reasons that are often used are that you have to take part-time positions to get the tour up. But if that is the case, it's quite strange to me that that problem seems not to exist in the man-dominated professions, such as. in the police and prisons. It is true that most people with involuntary part-time work are found in the health and care sector, i.e. in the public sector. Last night I got a recording of this when I visited the municipality of Sykkylven, where the employees at the hospital and the nursing homes said it was still a big problem. They're kind of looking for focus. The municipality doesn't have a particular focus on that either. In fact, local politicians have to take responsibility there. In 2007, it was announced – not from Emperor Augustus, but from Jens Stoltenberg – that strategies had to be drawn up in each municipality for this, to find out what was the situation in its municipality, and to make a plan. A lot of people took care of it. Two of the municipalities in my home country, Møre and Romsdal, the municipality of Sunndal and the municipality of Ørsta, got hold of this. To put it like that, there had to be some more women. There were female rapporteurs in the two municipalities. One sits here in the hall and is a representative of the Stortinget today. It's very good that things are done, and I think it has effect, what you do. Maybe a lot of people are positively surprised at the gain you get by cleaning up this. In particular, it contributes to and enhances quality of service. It is also important for individuals, especially in view of having a wage to live off and the possibility of getting a bank loan at the start-up stage when needed. But full time is not only positive for the employees, there are many factors that are positive for the employer as well. In the municipal sector, surveys show that there is a better continuity of supply and that recruitment is facilitated. It's important to have a good recruitment in these areas. You get less complicated watch lists to work with, and it is easier to increase the skills of full-time employees. There is also a lot of evidence that it does something about both commitment and enthusiasm, and not least about the well-being of work, and health absence statistics are improving. It's been a long way to go, and I think the interpellant took an incredibly nice intro on the story we've had, and the challenges that lie there, so at least I don't have to say anything more about it. But I very much agree with that situation description. LO has been engaged in legalising the right to full-time. Many of the associations of LLOs have also been in the foreground with both different recipes of how to deal with preferential rights and how to develop strategies and take different measures in their municipalities. But one benefit I see is that many people want to work full time, but they don't want to work every other weekend. This need is a challenge. Maybe it's not possible to solve it. But if you can think creatively, you can look at different tour schedules based on the needs that are there, it may not be as locked as you experience that it is today. It is positive that Audun Lysbakken now comes with its own big message about equal pay. This has also given rise to increased efforts towards involuntary part-time work. I think that's positive. Unfortunately, it's too early to say that we're equal in this society, when you see that women earn only $85 of men's earned hundreds of dollars. We still have a sex-shared working life when we have such pay differences. If we thought this was changing, it's not uplifting to know that the pay gap between women and men is growing in the infant phase. Unfortunately, we see that the provisions of the Equality Act on equal pay continue to be broken. It is strange that, although women dominate higher education and have as high a professional activity as they do in Norway, many still ignore the problem. It is clear that full-time work as a right must be a guiding principle and part-time should be an opportunity. But the goal we have to reach after every day. It requires not only fine words, but responsibility and action from all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1690	There are many industries that practice a high degree of part-time jobs. In most of these industries, we talk about women who work. In line with many others, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative, and I am very pleased that we are taking this debate today. It's what many people have been dealing with, both advantages and disadvantages of part-time positions. The benefits are probably greater for employers, while the disadvantages are mainly borne by employees. Of course, those who work part-time earn less than those who work full-time. This affects not only income but also the future pension. The uncertainty about getting enough extra guards to defend fixed costs is a heavy burden. In addition, there are many difficulties in obtaining loans, as they do not have safe income. I want to use my article to problematise the widespread use of part-time jobs in the health and care sector. We know that the growth in the number of older people over 70 is more than doubled in a few decades. It goes without saying that the struggle for labour to disguise all the jobs we will need in the health and care sector will be tough. Then it's not useful to lure into small fractions that people can't feed on. Moreover, these small positions are not the right way to use resources, because we are wasting with the number of heads and hands compared to using the labour force in larger job breaks. Many wonder why there is so much use of part-time jobs in the health and care sector. One of the explanations is that in the 1980s there was never such a small revolution in this sector. So to say everybody worked every other weekend, at least they had 100 pst. posts. The weekend work was perceived as very stressful. The employees' organisations worked well and got a hearing for tournaments with work every third weekend. On that occasion, many small part-time jobs were created to cover the crew during the weekends. Some believe that the solution to this extensive use of part-time is to reintroduce work every two weeks. I don't think so. The load of such dense weekend work would hardly seem to be recruiting. Then I have more faith in thinking new and trying out different schemes to combat part-time. Therefore, it is gratifying that the government is putting money into such attempts. Good results from these can provide other inspiration to test similar schemes. However, a leap in joy is that the Right chooses to cut all these 25 million to try out in its alternative state budget. I want to tell you about an interesting attempt by my own municipality of origin, Sunndal. When new jobs were to be published to a new hospital ward, only full-time jobs were published. Total resources were much higher than that needed by the new hospital unit. However, the need for reinforced staffing was present in other parts of the care sector. In cooperation with the trade unions, tour users were developed where the employees had two jobs. Thus all those who wanted a full-time job could apply for these new jobs and know where to work at any time. In the past, they were dependent on getting additional guards from several departments to get a full job together. This was very unsatisfactory. Now we got a better solution both for employees and for the employer. The employees got 100 pst. the position and all the benefits it brings, while the employer was provided with the care and need for enhanced staff through a predictable scheme. That was what we call a win-win situation for both the employee and the employer. We now experience that many municipalities are just coming to Sunndal to learn from the work done there. It shows that it's useful to think about new things. Finally, the 2008 and 2009 labour force surveys, carried out by Fafo, show that the proportion of women working full-time has increased. It's joyous, and it shows that we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1721	I would also like to thank the representative of the Trettebergstuen. This is an important debate. But we have debated for a long time – too long. The sustainability of the welfare society requires more solutions and shorter debates. Involuntary part-time is much a question of an equal labour market. The part-time was perhaps wanted 40 years ago, when the gender equality in the labour market started slowly. Then it was almost impossible to get kindergarten, school day was short, and there was no culture for equality at home. But still work 44 pst. of part-time working women, less than 10 pst. by working men the same thing. Involuntary part-time is a poor investment. 70 pst. of the nursing positions are part-time positions. More than half of the over 400,000 municipal employees work part-time. 207 000 of these are women, while only 35,000 are men. In each third municipality there is no discussion with trustees about the use of part-time, even if it is fixed in tariffs. Involuntary part-time work is a particularly poor investment in health and care services in Norway. The care report states that we need 135,000 new health workers by 2050. It must then be attractive to choose the sector — and remain in it. Risk of 10.4 pst. or 20,5 pst. position scares people away. No one can pay bills and live on a 20,5 pst. position in a care profession. Full-time, on the other hand, is a good investment. In terms of health and care, it is good for patients, for employers and for employees. Patients will experience better continuity of services and fewer caregivers to deal with. Employers are given a better job-related workforce and greater opportunity to carry out systematic quality work and skills building. Workers are given financial autonomy in their lives, necessary pension provision and better conditions for professional updating. The representative Henriksen paid full-time attention as a quality driver. Yes, in this house, the committee work would be worse if all the representatives had four quarters of seats and had to work in four committees each. A study of elderly care in the Nordic region shows that 90 pst. works full-time in Finland, but only 32 pst. working full-time in Norway. There are also considerable differences between municipalities in Norway, and municipalities that systematically deal with time-consuming problems are causing this. The consideration of justice, of financial autonomy for individuals and of the sustainability of the entire welfare state suggests that involuntary part-time must be rapidly reduced. I believe that involuntary part-time damage and undermine the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1740	I thank you for a very good debate with many good contributions and good input. I hope that we will get more attention on the use of involuntary part-time in the future, both in this room – among all the parties – and also in the public. We need that. We can no longer live with the situation the way it is, as many people have been about it. Women in question obviously — literally — cannot afford it, jobs cannot afford it, it affects the working environment and sick leave, it creates exclusion from work. But we as a society, with our challenges on the labour market, can't afford to just keep debating without finding new solutions. That's also why we're going to bring up that debate here today, and that's not what the representative, Red Isaac, says, is that we're interpling against our own government, we're interpling with our own government. If Røe Isaksen has read the Soria Moria statement and got the government's commitment to the gender equality field in general, also in the fight against involuntary part-time, Røe Isaksen will know that we're busy moving on. But it might seem that someone here today wants us to just continue to debate without really getting into concrete solutions. Because it's when we come to solutions and measures, that position and opposition really separate layers. We see that in the budget for next year at the latest, where the Right, who in the rhetoric is concerned with doing something about the problem, refers to local trials, but deletes the entire government's 25 million post. kr to just several of the types of local attempts to do something about the part-time problem. We are dedicated to finding solutions, and involuntary part-time has many reasons, so we cannot solve it with just one grip. It's a lot about the gender role pattern at the bottom. Then we have to discuss what expectations rest on us, and on what background we choose what we do. Because, as Andersen's representative was inside, the logic is that at the police station, men work full-time, but at the hospital that may be next door to the same street, women go into unreasonably small job breaks. Therefore, it is also important to focus more on a better overall gender equality effort and a debate on gender differences – challenge and change attitudes, and to make ourselves aware of the structures that accentuate the view that men are more dependants and women are caregivers, for that remains the case. We see it in the debates on parental leave and cash support, and in the equality debate otherwise. In all these matters, the government separates and opposition teams, as we know. I also hope that the commitment will continue, and that when we come with them, we will receive support for our proposals on concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1757	Having a living wage has been a central demand for women for a very long time, and the debate on involuntary part-time is therefore very important. I also think, like very many others, that there has been a good debate here today. There have been many good examples showing that doing something about the part-time problem is beneficial. We have heard of many examples, especially from the care sector, but also within hospitals, it is a major problem. The Minister of Health has taken the initiative to monitor the use of part-time and to initiate measures to reduce the amount of part-time even in hospitals. What is seen in their success is the use of flexibility, the use of post- and department-wide jobs, staff housing, internal temporary work arrangements, better work planning and more use of combined positions. I think a lot of what I've heard here today is about planning better, using the knowledge of where there are good results in planning. That's why I think it's very important that we have the ability to spread the knowledge that exists where we succeed. That is why I also believe that the appropriations put forward in the budget are absolutely necessary for us to move forward. So I also think there is one element that has not been very prominent in the debate here, but that we should not overlook when we discuss why there are too many part-time positions. I still believe that we have to work to get more men into the professions that are typical women's jobs, and therefore also become typical part-time jobs. Motivating more young people to choose untraditionally in education is also an important part of the fight against involuntary part-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1766	So the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1780	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1796	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1814	The right objective of a simpler Norway has its background in our approach to how we believe that those who create jobs and values should be treated. We believe that it must be administratively simpler and less resource-intensive to start, own and run businesses today. What we, and certainly also the Council of State, know most about when we're on company visits around the country is, of course, taxes and taxes – we put that away in this kind of debate – but it's especially the form field that goes back, how much energy is sucked out when envelopes are opened, when mail is picked up and you see that it needs to be filled in with the same information over and over again, sent in, checked out, reported, etc. It takes a lot of attention, which could otherwise have been applied to the development of the company. This is particularly relevant for small businesses and innovative enterprises, who do not have secretaries and do not want to have secretaries, but actually to produce what they are meant to and started to do. They have to deal with the same laws and regulations as large groups, and they spend relatively more of their time working and relatively more of their money on that type of job. Simplification of rules has been part of the pronounced policy on nutrition to the vast majority of governments over many years. As late as February 2010, NHO’s members put this theme, simplification, second place, above important business and framework conditions in order to operate in Norway. After five years in government and four government councils in the Ministry of Industry, the red-green zero results of substance have to refer to. Where one form disappears, there are often two new forms. Norwegian business today spends 54 billion. to comply with reporting rules. About 20 of those billions relate to small businesses in the country. At the pace of the day, it takes over 140 years to reach the target of 25 pst. reduction in the form field. The World Economic Forum places Norway in 59th place in public regulation. In the Burden of Government regulations category, to which 13 000 companies have responded, Norway has 59th place, which is ten places worse than in the previous survey. All the other Nordic countries came out better than Norway. Even Rwanda came out better on that parameter. What has been done is consistent to reconcile all the proposals of the Right and all the proposals of the Opposition because the Council of State rarely has a magnification that shares his ambition, which divides his many loose threads to take them down. It looks like the nourishing state council in the red-green government at all times is like Peer Gynt: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it too – but do it! No, I don't understand!' To fill with content a measure of simplification means to take unpopular action along the way. It may seem that the backbone of bureaucracy is that all forms are important, all forms have their dissiple, and all controls are necessary. In addition, such jobs are created. The main task of the Task Register is to keep a continuous overview of the duties of the business community to the public and to find ways of simplification. Annually, what is called a load statistics — which is a rather striking concept — is produced about the reporting of business to governments. On 31 December 2008, this register had 767 state forms, of which it was only possible to report half electronically. It is estimated that around four and a half thousand annual works agree to complete these forms. Of the total reporting costs of 13 billion. in 2009 was valid for just over 40 p.m. Alternating. Still, manual reporting is dominant, with a slight overweight of 55 pst. On the right, there should be electricity on all the forms – they should be electronic. It would ensure faster completion, faster transmission, easier control on the receiving side and be open 24 hours a day. Since today's government came to power, the administrative reliefs are hardly measurable, even under the new Council of State. Nor is it willing to dry up to set a concrete target of government reduction, despite the fact that all EU Member States have such objectives. Several proposals for concrete improvements that are not related to fiscal policy are down in the Stortinget. The right has proposed its own simplification message to the Stortinget every year, where all departments and state agencies report on how things have become simpler for users and businesses, as well as requirements for creating new forms. It's voted down. The right has proposed that the government should aim at reducing business costs by 10 pst. in the first years and then proceed to a further descent to 25 pst. in the long term. On the right, standard company information will be reported once to the public and only updated if changes occur. The fact that one enterprise on different forms, from different establishments, from different industries, must provide the organisation number, name, address and accounting information already reported is unnecessary, not only for the business sector, but also for those who are on the recipient side and are required to treat it, in the country, state and municipality. The right has also been on the proposal to reduce the retention requirement for accounting material from 10 to 5 years, which will make a significant contribution to business simplification. It should be accepted by the Council of State with open arms and disembark. The right has also said that we want a stock law that is more adapted to the smaller enterprises. The size has repeatedly had a discussion about a rule board according to the Swedish model to ensure simple, efficient and co-ordinated rules, and a kind of devil's lawyer in meeting with the bureaucracy when new forms are coming. In Sweden, they have now extended the probationary period of the Board of Regulators until the end of this four-year period in which the government sits, i.e. in 2014. The National Audit Office in Norway has repeatedly pointed out to Stortinget that the impact on business has not been properly investigated at the time of the establishment of the rules. The right has proposed more coordinated State supervision. Businesses receive different supervisory visits that pay a lot of attention and the government’s own investigation instructions, which require that business impacts are broken down. However, when one sees the impact on business of the Ministry of State, the Councils, the economic impact assessments, there are round formulations that cannot be verified, which cannot be verified. Since 1 September, the British Government has introduced the one-in-one-out principle, which in practice means that a new form is to be introduced, removing another one. Moreover, and perhaps the most important thing for the sake of simplification, it is not just to remove or reduce existing rules and legislative forms, but also to stop the rise of new ones. It has something to do with setting boundaries for government policy. When the Right wants simplification, it does not mean that we believe that there is no need for rules, that there is no need for forms, and that there is no need for control procedures. But it is quite obvious that public authorities are not involved when they ask for equal information from the same company up to several times a year. The Federation has called for a concrete willingness to simplify and facilitate innovation and growth. I believe that the focus on simplification and management in the departments today is not present under this government – not by evil will, but simply because it is not, or has been, and probably will not be, part of the everyday life of red-green politicians, and because the political work of many red-greens is about granting money rather than being a visible leader, a clear leader, and making demands. That's why I think a civil government is more fit to get control of just this kind of thing. As a result, bureaucracy is growing, the public sector is growing — financed by industry. A target of 25 pst. to reach out to undertake. Today everything gets watered out. Denmark has reduced its form fields by 20 pst. in recent years, Sweden has already reduced by 7 pst, but has a target of 25 pst. Tax policy would also have contributed. Removal of, inter alia: taxes on wealth and inheritance would have made it easier, but this interpellence is not about taxes and taxes. With regard to the desire to remove the audit obligation for small businesses, the government has now had 21⁄2 years after the NOU existed. Everyone says it should come before Christmas. That means that hopefully we'll see the State Council Gist again soon. One of the objectives of the interpellation is to get a clarification from Gisk about when the case will come. EU legislation has removed the audit obligation for enterprises whose turnover is below 8.8 million. EUR and less than 50 employees. 150 000 ASs may be removed from the audit obligation in Norway. These are companies with few owners, often family-owned companies where the owner is active. This is the acidiest thing about whether government council Giske believes anything with simplification, and whether he has exerted enough weight in government as he has had in other roles when he has been state council, and whether he also manages it in relation to business policy. Then we'll see the next few weeks and the days of the Council of State Giske are able to deliver a Christmas premise to the business community and to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1859	Now the coincidences would make it so that in this room quite recently you had an extensive round around the same problem. I am absolutely sure that was not my intention or that of the interpellanten when this was set up. So this could be a little reprisal of a debate we had recently. That's why I'm going to be a little shorter than usual in such interpellation debates, because the record will show that this was explained in detail quite recently. But value creation is the foundation of a society where welfare systems are among the best in the world. The Government's objective of industrial policy is to maximise the overall value creation. That's why I think it's a little unnecessary to present it as if we have different goals here. I think a total expansion with all the Biggest parties want to have a strong business life and want to have minimum bureaucracy and unnecessary reports and forms. But then it's like we have a lot of other different reasons to take. It's not evil that's behind a single rule or a single rule or a single report. There is always some good purpose to be achieved, but the sum has become an excessive burden on businesses, businesses and individuals. That's why the government's goal, like previous governments, is to reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens. Now it's like there's been six business ministers in seven years, and for the last 13 years, bourgeois and red-green or labor party governments have shifted power and had about half the time each. So we get to share brotherly and sisterly on the responsibility for the results being too thin. I think it's right, as it's also said here, that we need concrete targets. Of course, some of my predecessors from different parties or finance ministers from different parties could have done that, but we will be. And then you have to interpret it, like we're less active in this area, or we're more active in this area. Nevertheless, for me, it is important that an objective is followed by action, so that when we set an objective, we also need a strategy and concrete action that makes it realistic, but ambitious, to achieve this objective. In this work, we will look at other countries that have done this – Sweden is working on this, Denmark, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands – that have achieved results and that we can certainly learn from. Then, as I said in the previous debate, we need to find the balance between what is possible to simplify so that we increase value creation and what kind of legislation actually contributes to value creation. Part of this administrative work is of course things that are also necessary for the enterprise’s own activities. We're going to have a good cooperation with the business community, even if that's the case. We need to get views from many by means of different measures. It is also the case in this Chamber that even if a document 8 proposal or other proposal is voted down, it does not necessarily mean that the matter is out of the world. It just means that when you sit in government, you have a slightly different way of preparing, investigating and putting things up than voting over the table in Document 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1872	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the Council of State is well aware that the Stortinget has a great enthusiasm and a great commitment to this matter, and therefore he has to face up to the interpellations, and therefore he has to meet proposals from the Stortinget, from all the opposition parties – sometimes in common, and sometimes from one point to another – and therefore he has to meet frequently in the Questionnaire. This is because the business community in Norway reports that there is a dissatisfaction with the development. You stand firm, and then it's our duty that people elected to take note of some of this criticism, and look at what makes Norway unable to do this. Now, of course, all governments are going to take the credit and the blame, which we are going to share brotherly, which Giske is in, but the fact is that this government has had five years to achieve a goal of reduction, with which one strives and strives. I think, and the Right believes that the reason you don't get it is simply that you're not interested enough in it, because you have spending politicians in the Stortinget, and you have spending politicians in the government, but you don't have the other kind. When you don't have it, it might be a point for Giske, which I think listens, and which I think is interested in doing something about it. So the question is, does Giske have the same impact as Minister of Industry, when he finally comes to deliver something that he actually had as Minister of Culture? There are a lot of people in the business world who are excited about it. Therefore, GISE must also consider that the opposition calls him to the Storing in relation to reporting on this relatively often. For the time being, there is no delivery. On simplification there is absolutely nothing delivered. Word is delivered, promises are delivered. I understand that the timing with respect to representatives' proposals and things like that makes it work. At the same time, however, both Gish and several of the State Secretaries have announced that in connection with the interview there will now be a new revision of the Share Act in the light of small enterprises, the Accounting Act in the light of small enterprises – and not least half of the business life awaits with excitement: What happens with respect to the Audit Act? As Gisk had such a short and thin response to the interpellation because he was here a few days ago, he should be able to present when he promotes it. Is it now Friday, or is the next Friday, or does he break the promise that it will come before Christmas? One with this interpellation should be able to get a clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1883	The interpellant called this a possible Christmas gift to business, and it's a very incorporated pastime that you don't tell what the Christmas present is, before Christmas! I can assure you that this work has full attention, not only in the ministry, but also in the government. It's not right that nothing happens. On the contrary, a lot happens, and it happens under different governments. For example, a project that we have gathered about is: Altin, who is just what the interpellant was talking about: electronic reporting, collecting the information at a place, so that public agencies can go there instead of going out to businesses when they need information. We are at full speed towards the goal of 95 pst., I think it is, of all reporting to be done electronically, based on electronic signature, by 2012. So this is a big and ambitious project, which is not just great in Norway, but it's well the world's leading in using electronic reporting. Then we have started, as the interpellant himself referred to, working on issues relating to the share law and the accounting law and with the auditor's question. And then we've also said that we want to concrete the goal more, be ambitious, but also have good and clear answers on how to achieve the goal. I think the last business needs, is another business minister, regardless of color, who has great ambitions and idealistic goals, but who can't deliver the results that business actually depends on. It's the results that count, and not the words, and that's what we set the strategy for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1892	It is an important topic addressed by the inter-pellant, and it is affordable to have an involvement in the field of labour and business simplification. The Economic and Social Committee has had many debates in this Chamber. We're going to keep having that. But since we debated this thoroughly two days ago, I don't think it might be the longest debate today. That doesn't mean you're not busy with it. I think it is reassuring that the Minister of Industry says, he also conveyed it in an excellent way two days ago, that this is very much being worked on. It is important to set goals, not just because Sweden and Denmark have set some goals, but to set targets that actually contribute to a simpler situation for our business and that are adapted to the system we have. Then it is also important to have a strategy behind those objectives. I think when it comes, there'll be plenty of time to discuss it in this room. We're looking forward to that. Then I have to say that it was almost frequent to say that the Minister of Industry has not been able to get anything this year. It's perhaps the most active Minister of Industry we've ever had. In one year he has done an incredible amount, I just have to let you know. Perhaps the most important thing is that you have lifted and taken an important hold in the maritime industries, which have had a heavy time, and he has delivered a yard package for 10.2 billion. kr, which increases flexibility and makes a financial contribution to those who need it in that industry. Then I actually think it's quite disrespectful what came.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1903	The President would point out that the word ‘freak’ is an unparliamentary expression, and would ask the representative, Botten, to note it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1906	On Tuesday we had a longer round attached to just what is related to simplification. And we're going to have another round before Christmas one of the last days before the Stortinget takes a Christmas holiday, or the "free period in Christmas" is well the expression we're going to use here at the house. So we'll probably get this debated further. It doesn't make this interpellation less important. It just shows that we have a constant pressure on the matter, that we want to get to something, and the Storting is committed to it, which means that we can move on. It is also nice that the Minister for Economic Affairs has the representative Botten in the Chamber, so that she can take him in defense. I think that the Council of State has great opportunities to do it on its own. There are a few things the council will not answer at all, nor would he want it on Tuesday. That's why I want to ask the question very specifically. It is then the third time this week I ask that question to the Council of State, and I hope that all the good things are three, and that the Council of State will now answer. According to the World Gang on October 27, this year, the Council of State numbered the reduction he will be included in the administrative costs, to 7 billion. kr. This will be 12 pst., calculated from the total estimated resource use. Then I ask, can the Council of State from this pulpit confirm, or cancel, that that's the sum you're operating with, so that also the Storting as a body can get this information, and not just read it in the VG? Then I also hope that the Council of State will bring something before Christmas. But then the State Council should say whether there is a matter for the Stortinget that will come before Christmas related to the revision of the Share Act, or whether it is the selection that is to be done with its work for Christmas, i.e. that we can then lose even more time, because then there will be a case to be advanced and that will come here for treatment. Now I'm going to deal with this government. I'm getting pretty tired of it constantly referring to the previous government, or the bourgeois government. It's been more than five years since it went off, and then it's time to answer for your own policy. During that period, i.e. between 2006 and 2010, there has been an increase in resource use in Norway related to forms and rule reports of 0.09 pst. So there's not been any decline, it's actually been an increase. So when the representative in his post says that in this area, the Council of State has done nothing at all, he has actually done nothing at all, except that it has actually contributed to an increase in the use of resources in the companies. But I am absolutely sure that the Council of State is going to do something, and that is because the Storting is also following this matter now. The Council of State has also stated that he wants to do something about this matter. I really hope that he gets a say in the government. I really hope the Council of State gets to it and comes up with this, because business needs it, they're totally dependent on things falling into place. So for the yard package. So it is not the government that has granted the yard package. It's this house that's done. The size is Norway's admissibility authority. The Government is the executive authority. I think we'll try to stay inside there as well. It has been done on a proposal from the Council of State, yes, but it is the Stortinget that grants money. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals either together with others or alone. Only to date this year have we promoted more than 25 proposals relating to simplification. It's about auditing, it's about looking at business tasks, it's about keeping records, it's about even going on a big message about small and medium-sized enterprises, just to show that we want to focus on these things. But almost by principle, you vote everything down. That's what's sad. But at least let's hope that the ideas have promulgated themselves into the government offices, into the state council, and that the work now done is in line with many of these proposals, so that we can get a step further. I really hope that the Council of State gets through. I think the will is there, I think the wish is there, but then we'll see if the ability is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1925	I also stumbled a little over the short first post of the Minister of Economic Affairs. I thought it was in the sport you had the goal that the lap times were going down steadily. It doesn't always apply in debates, and I think this debate is something that takes a lot of people out. I hope that's not an expression of arrogance to the problem we're facing. One now refers to a sample, and this would be a good opportunity in many ways to start to lighten up a little bit about what that sample is going to bring. There's a statement that says that when Satan wanted nothing to happen, he set up the first committee, and that could be the result of another sample work on this side right here. There are really few areas where the interpellantens Peer Gynt-quota fits as well as on this. Simplification is easy to talk about, it's easy to create expectations, it seems to be easy to double-communicate about, as we see repeated examples of, but it seems all the more difficult to satisfy. I heard the interpellant talking about this with the administration. I don't think you should have very high expectations for the administration – it's not the administration's responsibility. It is actually the policy's responsibility to go in and make sure that the focus is on this. I think a whole bunch of people can take on the challenge. As a rule, the attack angle in matters – including here in the house – is that you want to introduce new laws, new leaders and new decisions instead of going in and seeing what you can do with the old one. So I think everyone can share the responsibility. That is where I agree with the Minister of Industry. But we're left with the expression: would it, wish it, but do it! There are many signs that the form field and follow-up requirements imposed in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises are very burdensome. The cost is, as I said earlier, estimated at about 54 million. kr, and the red-green government has so far done little, has so far little to indicate in terms of achieving any goals. The load has not been reduced. That's why it's high time to get started. I very much agree with the Minister of Industry that it is about starting to quantify and make the targets measurable. Now was not the Minister of Industry at the NHO Småting in Alta earlier this fall, but there I was, and I heard the formal sigh that went through the hall when the Secretary of State was tried to deal specifically with the question. Then he said something like that you can't set the targets until you know what you want to do, and how to do it. For a business that is used to living with competition at all times, and that is used to facing actually having to take some chances of being able to solve the challenges without knowing exactly how to do it, I think that answer in many ways symbolized why you don't achieve anything. One is terrified of drawing up some ambitious goals – but they must be realistic – draw up some quantifiable goals that you do not know exactly how to achieve. Here we see that our neighboring country is actually doing it. Denmark has, as has been said before, been able to reduce costs by 20 pst, with a concrete target of 25 pst. And Sweden is doing great. We as a nation and also business depend on well-regulated markets and clear guidelines. So there's definitely a balance right here between simplification and what's necessary. But I might think the risk of stimulating the unprofessional if you get too detailed and the loads get too heavy is too little in focus. I guess we have branches that are starting to show signs that if you get too detailed in their regulation, you might simply stimulate the unprofessional elements. I think the debate is interesting, including that with the yard package. As Nesvik said, it's little we politicians get to do with the market. We can help make business competitive, and it is clear that reducing the form field is a very important part of it. It would be aimed at the whole of business and not just part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1942	I want to thank the interpellant for giving us another opportunity to discuss a very important matter. It's like it's said before here today, when, in order to avoid repeating ourselves maybe getting a little short, that doesn't mean we're not busy with things. But we're concerned that when we take the floor in this room, we're going to try to bring new moments into the debate, so that one can move on. That's a little bit of what I've been going to do today. The one moment I want to bring into the debate is that I recently received a report from the Nordic Council entitled 'Global Pressure – Nordic Solutions'. In that report, there are quite a number of competitive factors that have been analysed. One has placed the Nordic countries in a global context and in relation to each other with a view to different competitive factors. One of the listed competitive factors is administrative regulation that affects the costs of the companies. In that ranking, it is pointed out that the World Bank has ranked Norway and Denmark among the top ten in the world when it relates to the cost effect of administrative regulation. Sweden is a little further down. Although this is something that it's very important to do even better, we're going to assume that the starting point is not as crazy as someone's trying to do it. It's, as I said, no sleeping cushion, but an inspiration for us to do it even better. Then there's another moment that I want to record, to bring some new moments into the debate since we had him quite a short time ago. One of the things that a lot of companies spend a lot of time on is their relationship with Nav. Nav is one of the bodies that is very concerned that things should be written and with proper signatures on, like pencil, and not just electronic. One of the things I think it can be absolutely useful to look at is what happens in communication between employers and hubs when it comes to sick messages, unemployment benefits, etc. In the companies I have visited, there has been a great deal of focus from the HR department on the fact that there is a potential to rationalize in the relationship that will be happy both for the companies and for them to add, just to bring in a little bit of new information, as we have discussed this approximately. the third every day in the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1953	The theme of business simplification has been the subject of several occasions in the United Kingdom this week, and it is in this way likely to be a repetition of these debates today. The party and government are concerned about this topic. In this context, I would also like to point out that there was an overall nutrition committee that earlier this week agreed to set a quantifiable target for simplification work. Such a target must create a notable and measurable change for the better for businesses in their everyday lives. This is what the government is now working on, and we in the Center Party are busy making real improvements for the companies. In this context, I would like to refer to the work with Altin and further follow-up of this, as well as the government's review of both the Share Act and the Accounting Act. On the part of the Centre Party, we are committed to removing the audit obligation for small enterprises and to simplifying the accounting and reporting obligations for small enterprises. This will be an important contribution to simplifying the everyday lives of these companies and releasing more time and resources to create values. These themes will give us more opportunities to discuss in this Chamber when the government has completed its assessments and put forward concrete proposals for consideration here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1967	First, I want to thank the interpellant for traveling this important topic. As others have pointed out, we had a debate on Tuesday this week on simplification and the administrative burdens of business related to a proposal from the Left on 25 p.m. reduction in the form load. Tuesday's debate was marked by the fact that the government and government parties were more concerned with polishing against some claims and figures in our proposal than with wanting to do something about the form load. It was a feeling at least I was left with. In addition, during the debate, an incomprehensible claim was made by Mr Heggø of the Workers' Party that a reduction in Brønnøysund's fees would result in a more complicated working day for the companies. In this case, the logical consequence should be that the government and the Workers' Party proposed a massive increase in the fees for the Brønn Island Health Registers in order to reduce red tape and less form fields. This, however, is reflected in a very strange view of simplification which the same representative has advocated in several debates, including: in the debate on a Norwegian Regulatory Council, on a proposal from the Left. There too, the representative Heggø pointed out that this would lead to increased bureaucracy and more form fields, while the results of Sweden — a country the Council of State now, according to him, draws inspiration and experience — have proved to be very well linked to the establishment of the Swedish Regulatory Council. On the other hand, I feel that the representative Botten is much more positive and solution-oriented. I'm glad. I recorded that the Council of State debate on Tuesday almost devalued the simplification work that has been done in Sweden. Well, that work has involved a lower burden for Swedish business, corresponding to 7 billion. kr. That's 7 billion. kr that can be set free for corporate value creation. The Danes are now removing 19 concrete forms, or what they call ‘irritation burdens’, which the Danish industry has pointed to as being particularly bureaucratic. Finally, I would like to briefly repeat some of what was my main message and that of the Left in the debate on Tuesday. We want it to be easy to start, operate and own business in Norway. The aim must be to reduce the administrative costs arising from rules and forms. The aim must also be to create a tangible and measurable change for the better in the company's everyday lives. It is therefore important to set an ambitious and binding target for the reduction of the Norwegian form field as soon as possible. I hope the Council of State says something more concrete in the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1980	This matter has been discussed several times this week. It's been discussed even more times this year in this room. The reason for this is that the representatives of the government parties in this room vote for all the proposals that come about simplification, without any proposals coming back in propositions from the government to the Stortinget. So it comes up again and again in Stortinget. To what the bottom took up in connection with the yard package: It was, as Nesvik said, cross-political agreement. We were all present when GIEK and Export Finance met with the Finance Committee and the Business Committee. And if the government hadn't suggested it, a total opposition would have suggested it. So that's where we've luckily agreed. It's a force for everyone. As far as the audit obligation is concerned, I would say that Giske is relatively ungallant. He turns away from answering the questions, but through the media he has no problem promising that there will be suggestions before Christmas. So we've just started the Advent season, and it's getting closer. Then he should also say to the Stortinget what he loves to say when he meets business people, that this comes before Christmas. It would have been okay to get a clarification: is it coming, or isn't it coming? What Nesvik is also asking for answers, which I can add, is whether Giske's alert cut of 7 billion. kr will be 12-13 pst. reduction. If you read the letters from the department of Stortinget, when you ask questions about what the starting point of bureaucracy is for the calculation of costs, you'll see that it's generally accepted that it's 54 billion. kr. Is it now that the Giske and the department accept the starting point of 7 billion? kr i cut is 12-13 pst.? In that case, you're pretty good at achieving a target of 25 pst. Then the representative Botten and the Council of State should have been considerably more offensive. Because when you mention an amount of 7 billion. kr, that means that there must be a whole pile of measures at the rear. It is therefore quite remarkable, when the opposition promotes one proposal after another, that no representatives from the red-green parties in the Grand Duchy come up with a single concrete proposal for simplification from the pulpit. The only person who has done that is the Central Party representative here, who was tough enough to say that you want to remove the audit obligation. I think that was a good signal. That clearly means that the government will do it. The question is whether the Council of State has any support in its economic fraction. We know that LO, who is the employer of Else-May Botten when she is not sitting on Stortinget, has a completely different view of it. We hope that the business community and the opposition have a wider approach to simplification policy in Norway than the LO has.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e1993	I just want to say first that the opposition is dealing with issues, that the opposition is proposing measures, that the opposition is looking after the government, is good. It makes the government and the bulk of the population better. That's how our democracy works. It's not just either-- or, either has one since the majority and the other is without influence, or it's the other side. We often find common solutions. We work together. We're trying to find constructive solutions, especially when the goals are the same. Sometimes we might have a slightly different goal, but in this case I think we're quite agreed. It might also be nice to sit in opposition for a few years, because then you're more inspired to do more in an area that you didn't do much when you were in government. Not that I am inviting a new exchange in 2013, but that it is such a kind of exchange, is perhaps also healthy. I stand for what I've said in the VG. Now I don't mention any number in the VG, but I say we're going to be as ambitious as the Danes. We can't let them be switched off in terms of what we can get to. However, I am concerned that, when we present a strategy, we should of course have targets that include more than the concrete actions we put on the table there and then, targets that are more ambitious and perhaps have longer time horizons. But at the same time, we have to have some sort of understanding that we're reaching them. I want to be the last to say something negative about my good colleague Maud Olofsson in Sweden, but it is a fact that so far they have fulfilled only a quarter of that plan. Maybe you can do more, but I'm pretty sure what the posts in this room would have been if we had achieved only a quarter of what we had set ourselves as ambition. I'm not sure then from the opposition you'd have gone up here and said that it's really great, there's a lot of billions in improvement, so this should be the government proud of, a shouldn't be sorry for it, this is the opposition very happy that the government is doing. I think the tone would have been a little different if it had been like that. Two days ago, we were not just discussing the same topic, but we actually discussed it even more in detail, because there was a rather comprehensive Document 8 proposal on the table. We read those suggestions there, too, when we're going to make our strategies. And it may be that measures in Document 8 proposals that are not adopted can still be assessed when we get a proper case preparation, as the Norwegian system works, with the Department and Government. Then we'll see what we can do before Christmas. We cannot get Christmas fast enough, but we can see that we are now at least one hour closer than we were before the interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2006	The President is of the opinion that Christmas is coming quickly enough! So the debate is on case No. 10 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2025	Finnmark counties are large, and from nature they benefit from a lot of resources, ranging from minerals and ore deposits to fjords and oceans that produce a lot of fish. Travel industry has grown and has a great potential. In addition, we have oil and gas deposits, and the average wind conditions in Finnmark are very favourable for the creation of wind power. 70 pst. of the Norwegian wind power potential onshore is in Finnmark. The common denominator of all establishments, irrespective of their industry, is access to land. Some industries will require smaller areas, while others need more. The Finnish mark has historically had a large and, not least, free access to its nature. These rights have long been threatened by the Ministry of the Environment and the State’s extended arm, the County Environmental Protection Department, which does not wish to deal with the fact that municipalities and county councils unanimously oppose more peace and protection. When I deal with the Minister for the Environment, the Ministry or the Government, it has the simple reason that, at the end of the day, there is the responsibility for unfortunate developments over time. The size target of approx. 14 pst. the protection and conservation of the areas is reasonably well achieved, and we take with protection on Svalbard, is approximately. 22 pst. of the areas in Norway peaced. In addition, there are a lot of fjord systems. Once our national objectives have been achieved, why does it seem almost always to come up with new proposals for more protection, more peace? And I wonder: is it so that when national objectives adopted by the Storting are achieved, then it is free to carry out an analysis at its own discretion, while the population is not included in advice? Are the interests and ambitions of the bureaucrats at the expense of development and growth in our northernmost state? Section 35 of the Nature Diversity Act makes it clear that: ‘As a national park, larger natural areas containing specific or representative ecosystems or landscapes and without severe natural interference may be protected.’ Ergo can be protected where one has a unique fauna, a unique landscape, and qualitative protection is to be carried out, not quantitatively. In addition, there shall be/should be a landscape where there is no heavier technical intervention such as roads, power lines, etc. already established. Too often, there are now quantitative needs on the ground. As a result, large areas are protected and protected areas are extended. Municipalities lose their right to control their own land management, their access to nature narrows down, business opportunities disappear, and not least everything called local democracy is powdered. No popular level in Finnmark wants more peace and protection. The county council has unanimously rejected more peace and protection, but this does not receive the attention of the Minister for the Environment or the Ministry. What people in Finnmark think has no relevance. The Ministry and the Councils of State are completely overstepping local requirements. But what has the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry thought that we should live on in Finnmark? Is there fresh air and nature that we don't have access to, that's going to save us? Shall we be saved in peace? In the municipality of Båtsfjord more than 60 pst. of the areas protected by the establishment of Varangerhalvøya National Park. In addition to this, large areas connected by reindeer management through tracts, calving areas and reindeer aeration areas are an industry which receives large State subsidies. As regards the municipality of Porsanger, the Ministry of the Environment sent out in May 2010 a new protection plan for ants and wetlands. The municipality went against this already in 2007. New sites should now be protected: Morssajeaggi, Cuosgaljeaggi and Madarjeaggi, Vieksa and Luostejok – a total of 216.7 km2. In addition, the protection of the entire inner Porsangerfjord is proposed. The problem is that the municipality has already been protected by Stabbursdalen National Park and Stabbursdalen Landscape Protection Area. In addition, the following nature reserves are established in Porsangs: Valdak, Reinøya, Roddines, Viekker, Børselvosen, Silfarvarri, Cag‘Igjåkka and Bihkkacohkka – huge areas that cannot be used by the local population or industry. In addition, draft routes and calving areas for reindeer and Porsangermoen and Halkavarre are added, which the military disposes of. This suggests that of an area of 4 873 km2 belonging to the municipality of Porsanger, 3 360 km2 is peace/protection and bound by the environmental protection authorities and the Defence. If you take the towing roads for reindeer, there are 3,842 km2 within the protective plan. In addition, the maritime areas that we see are proposed are protected. Porsanger municipality has over 70 pst. of its areas protected, protected or otherwise bound. Equally astonishing, the Council of State and the Department continue to work tirelessly with more peace and protection. Here the government wants to protect areas that in one municipality are larger than Akershus and Eastfold counties together. One can slowly ask if they have understood that people in large municipalities must actually be able to put their own nature into practice if they are to establish business and use nature. Once again, the reindeer industry, which means little to the municipality of Porsanger, receives an annual compensation of 8 million. kr from the State. Porsanger municipality and everyone else gets almost said as expected by this government, nothing. At the same time, reindeering is not important for Porsanger, as the majority of the practitioners live in other municipalities, such as Karasjok. Maintaining a high-subsidy industry while effectively preventing all other planning and establishment. This directly discriminates against anyone else who is not a reindeer. Earlier in my post I was so far within the criteria of protection and conservation. Today, the Ministry of the Environment is working on an extension of the Upper Anárjohka National Park, affecting Karasjok and Kautokeino municipalities. One of the criteria set by the Stortinget for the possible extension of the national park was that areas that already had heavier technical interventions such as road, power lines, etc. were to be excluded from protective plans. This has not been done so far in the proposed extension of the national park. Not only are these areas included, but the mandate given by the Stortinget for the investigation is extended. Today, the plans contain an extension of nearly 300 pst. greater than the mandate of the Stortinget once granted. If some type of fauna or nature is proposed here, the answer is no. The fauna proposed for peace in the enlargement area is already there, and not only there, but also elsewhere that is peaced or protected, as in the Stabbursdalen National Park or in the Upper Pasvik National Park. Ergo is not a qualitative need for an extension of the national park, but quantitative desires, which clearly violates the Natural Diversity Act § 35. Purity must be given access to the area, while the population of Karasjok and not least the Anárjohka valley are deprived of the possibility of movement in the area – a serious discrimination. Movements in such areas are not carried out on foot but are motorised. The valley's own inhabitants, represented by Annjel Basic Owners' Association, will have far less access to natural resources, while reindeers who live far away will retain or extend their access. At the same time as the Finnmark Act is clear that everyone in Finnmark should have equal rights, we learn that the Ministry sets up different groups and interests against each other. Furthermore, it is possible to state in the notice that the interests of cultural protection and nature protection go hand in hand. This falls on its own unreasonableness. Cultural memories are created, regularly used and maintained by humans, for humans. In the case of cultural memories, which in this case are at the top of the Anárjohka valley, one depends on being able to travel to them in a motorized way. The forest in the Anárjohkadalen National Park today bears the mark of an unbalanced ecosystem, while in the enlarged area that the Finnmark property manages, we have a good ecology. In conclusion: Annjel Grundeierforening is against extension, Karasjok municipality as well. The County Council, the Sameting and the FeFo are critical. We have a local democracy – what are we going to use it for in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2076	The President notes that the representative Fredriksen uses the term ‘like astonishment’. It is possible that there is an expression that can be used in Finnmark, large parts of Troms and some places in Northernland, but in this room there is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2079	The expression is easy to understand for someone who grew up on Bislett, too. I don't think we're taking a big hit on it, but let it go. The interpellant asks a very specific question: What is the reason why the Ministry of the Environment has supported the expansion of the areas of peace and protection? The answer is very simple: with the background of the protection plan that the Progress Party in its time was in favour of in the Stortinget. The National Park Plan was adopted in the United Kingdom in 1993. The Progress Party was at that time for the plan, but I think it is – perhaps not a parliamentary expression either – a bit awkward that representatives who are first in favour of a plan in the Storting, spend the rest of their lives looking for all true and unreasonable counter-representations against it, and every time there comes a local objection, one throws itself at it instead of being part of and sticking to the plan that you yourself have agreed to, and try to get it to – of course, in constant dialogue with the local population. In 2010, the National Park Plan will be completed, with one or two exceptions. It has been a contribution from Stortinget and changing governments – not least the Right Børge Brende – to all possible reasons for being proud of it. Then we also want to put behind us one chapter in Norwegian environmental history, namely protective plans in what can be called outland where there are not so many people living, though some. The next stage will be how we take care of the environment closely where a large majority of people in Norway live and live. I get particularly little impressed when I hear the representative say that the local people cannot use these areas. I don't know where it comes from. Of course, this is also a full opportunity for berry plucking, hunting and fishing. Sami industrial interests — reindeer activities — can mainly continue as before. Of course, national parks should and should be used by the local population. The aim of national parks is not to protect them from keeping people out, but it is among other things. also in order to protect important parts of Norwegian nature in order to enable humans to use them. There is therefore no effective barrier to the extraction of natural resources in line with the protection objectives of a national park and a high level of industrial activity can be permitted. No later than a month ago, we had a round about Hardangervida here in Stortinget, and as I see it – at least from the right-wing representatives who promoted this – good compromises have been found in retrospect, precisely because the matter was up in Stortinget, and it contributed to it. In 14 days I'm going to Valdres to see how you can have a dialogue with local seats in Valdres, about how we can expand the Worm Iron Battle National Park in a way that will be acceptable. In Finland, work is currently under way on three protective plans. It's about the extension of a national park in Kautokeino, which I insist on trying to express the name. The representative is certainly far more capable of it, but it's called something in the direction of Goahteluoppal. Upper Anárjohka is easier to pronounce. It is located in the municipality of Karasjok. In addition, there is an ant plan, which is still in preparation at the County of Finnmark. All of this is in line with the objective of the National Park Plan, which is to ensure a representative selection of Norwegian nature, to ensure the protection of larger, interconnected and untouched natural areas, to ensure areas of landscape protection and to ensure the protection of plants and animals and their habitats, in particular areas of valuable nature. If you go into the specific areas proposed for protection, I will be allowed to mention that in the Anárjohka area it is the forest. It's pine and black forest. The endangered species of sand pine forest is found in large parts of the area, and it is one of the most important natural forest areas in Norway. There are many rare fungi in Anárjohka, and it is the largest natural spruce deposit in Norway north of the Salt Mountain and one of the westernmost outlets of the Siberian taiga in Norway — to provide the concrete justification for the protection area. In the case of the protection area of Kautokeino, there are large moorings and wetlands, where we include: find the last palsy ants in Norway, with a type of permafrost that occurs only in areas with an annual average temperature below 1 °C. In all these protected areas, the four major predatory species can be hit. Wetlands are some of Norway's most important breeding areas for many red-listed avian species, such as sedatives, large plumage, eucalyptus, myrhauc. In the ravines we find the endangered lap singer and the rare due trust. In pine forest hedges the king eagle, mountain wakes, low terror, and dwarf sparrows. In addition, fish deposits are characterised by eastern naturally immigrated species, such as sigma, pike, hare, perch, leach, and earring. From the north comes salmon, trout, shrimp and woodpeckered stinging fire, to mention some of the natural qualities in the area. There has also been a rich interaction between people and nature in the area, so there are also important cultural memories to take care of. The ant plan, which is something other than the two national parks, is the last of the series of state-wide thematic protection plans adopted early in the 1980s. It was before the entry of the Progress Party, I think, so I'm not going to give the party responsibility for it, though perhaps the party agreed to vote for it as well. The objective of the thematic protection plans is to ensure within each country a representative sample of different key habitat types. So the interpellant refers to different local objections and critical comments. It's part of a natural process. I do not know any protection area in Norway where there has been no dialogue with the local population, where local objections have partly been raised, and in some cases have opted for protection in spite of local objections. A thorough and transparent procedure is provided for in all protective cases. My attitude is always to ask the local government of the county, or a local environmental protection authority of a different kind, to listen as much as possible to the local population. For the two national park proposals in Finnmark, the county has been assisted by specially established working groups with representatives of users and municipalities. The aim is to set up an equivalent working group to assist the county in the preparation of the proposals for ant plan. The actual process that is taking place here goes far beyond what is directly required by law, but is an expression of our government, and certainly also of the political desire of previous governments to actually have as broad a process with local authorities as possible. Let me also end by mentioning that, after dialogue with the local population in 2010, when these areas are likely to receive greater or less protection, it will happen within a new political framework created by the Red-Green Government, while the governments supported by the Advance Party did not support local protection management. We have now changed the process, so that it becomes a local administration of protection. Of course, provision will also be made for national parks in Finnmark. Local government boards are set up, and they will have considerable freedom of action to deal with the protection, of course within the framework laid down by the Storting – and then the King of the Council of State. The red-green government has also stepped up a programme of value creation for the protection areas. Of course, this will also apply in Finnland, so that national parks can be used as an incentive for increased tourism, more information in the community, to use them for school students in educational contexts, but above all to attract businesses and tourism of different kinds, based on protection. Too often we have kept the protected areas in Norway a little secret. They are not well signposted on a road map, with instructions on how to get there. By doing more of this, while stimulating local business to take advantage of the protection areas, we make two flies in one taste. We protect essential parts of Norwegian nature, and we create important businesses in some of Norway's outlying areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2109	I don't know if the state council found out that I spent a third of my speaking time at the Upper Anárjohka National Park. I did not hear one answer that went on that over 70 pst. by the municipality of Porsanger is protected. I did not hear one comment that the same applies to the municipality of Båtsfjord. That's a little bit of a shame. But I don't feel like getting embarrassed in time, and I'm not ashamed of what the Progress Party must have adopted in 1993. But what the investigation and plans for the extension of the Upper Anárjohka National Park are all about is not, in fact, what the Stortinge decided in 1993. Here, the mandate given by Stortinget is extended by almost 300 pst. If the Council of State thinks it's the same, he's going to have to be able to do it, but I'm of a completely different opinion. A poem in the north once wrote something like the Finnish mark is like the piece of stone. Bad is he, smells he does, and you take the sea from him, then he bites to all edges. But you get to know him, he's some of the same thing you know about, he said. I have a question for the Council of State, which said that in these areas we even have the four major predatory species. We already have that in the National Park today, and so do we in many other national parks. Are we going to set qualitative or quantitative requirements to protect and peace? Then I ask directly: what biodiversity or zoological diversity has been lost in the field of investigation since 1976? And what biological and zoological diversity is the area of investigation that is not already in place in the national park? To claim that the establishment of national parks facilitates business life, we have heard before. I'm glad to see it practiced in practice. Unfortunately, it excludes the municipalities from being able to put in place business start-ups. We heard the same thing when it came to the extension of Stabbursdalen National Park, where an extension of the size of Vestfold County was granted for a few years ago. There's no business there. That's what local complaints are about. With regard to the treatment of the methodology itself in the plan, Angeli's basic ownership association says that they don't even get a response to their letters to the county council, and then you can't say that this is something that has been practiced and carried out in relation to democratic assumptions. Many have not been heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2122	I agree with the interpellant that the finnmarking is a similar vessel, and is there one thing I like, it's okay, blush and direct speech. But the direct number has to be right. It does not contribute to any reasonable debate to tell people in the vicinity of a national park cannot get out to the national park, so they are obliged to sit at home and not use it, when we know that a series of listed activities are fully compatible with running a national park. Nor does it help to clarify this to say that no one, anywhere, has received anything from national parks. I do not know if the representative will follow in what is happening in Norway. When we were about to announce the title ‘national park municipality’ and ‘national park village’, there was a wide range of municipalities that wanted this status. Next year we will have a large conference with municipalities around the national parks. There's massive interest in participating in this, and distributing that value creation. If I'm going to mention one example, let me mention the central party-driven Lom. They have three national parks within the municipality of Lom, if I don't remember completely wrong, they have a large part of their municipality protected and see this as a fantastic stimulus to local business. If we all – whether in Oslo or in Finnmark – showed the same creativity as Lom to create business, we would get very far. So the black vision is no basis for it. So what impresses me a little bit is that the Progress Party joins a general national park plan. But at least in the three years I have been the Minister for the Environment – it is possible it was different before that – I don't remember hearing a nice word about protection or national parks in the Stortinget from the Progress Party. Every time there's a little bit of dissatisfaction somewhere you can pick up, grab hold of it and pluck it up, instead of standing firm for what you've been on. But that does not mean that everything should be exactly as it was in the National Park Plan, that there are no faults and shortcomings there, but in politics, one must occasionally be able to stand firm on some main lines, and then deal with objections and difficulties along the way. If you can't, at least you're not government-manual. Only parties that are able to maintain something over time are governmentable in Norway. Yes, SV has proven that we are. Many people didn't think we were, but we've proven that we are. Let me end by saying, since the representative thought that the Finnish markers are demanding to get into nature, and that it must be done by motoring, that in today's Altapost there is a polling from Finnmark that shows that a large majority of Finnish markers want more controls in order to get rid of illegal fielding. According to this poll, where a thousand Finnmarks across the county have been asked, it's 85 pst. - not 85 pst. of the population of Grünerløkka, but 85 pst. of the Finnmark population — which believes that more control of illegal land use in the county is necessary in order to achieve a negative impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2135	The interpellant addresses a matter that concerns many around the district of Norway, and as a staging representative we are often contacted on such questions. The debate on the balance between use and protection is very demanding. I think most people agree that there is a need to take some protective measures, but people will also be heard in relation to their local knowledge and opportunities for local food development, even in the future. As the interpellant said, Finnmark is a large county in the area, and it is natural that this county is also affected by the need for protection. Finnmark counties are half as large as the country of Belgium in area and larger than Denmark. When we go a little further south, the North Troms region alone is the same size as the entire Rogaland state to extent. This should give these areas many positive opportunities, but, of course, it also implies that the areas are restricted due to national needs for some protection. I am of those who believe that protection must be implemented with care both for nature and for people who are going to live and work in these areas. Therefore, the issue of protection needs to be addressed in a way that involves the municipalities and communities concerned and with a significant emphasis on their arguments. Today, in my opinion, we receive many feedback from municipalities and communities that they feel overwhelmed by the protection interests and bureaucracy. Yes, there are in fact questions about whether the State complies with its own legislation in this area. We hear too often that local recordings and proposals for solutions are ignored without particular justification. I'm glad that the Solheim Council focuses on the importance of good processes in terms of protection, but I think he has to tighten this up further. I don't know anything that annoys people more than when they get a sense of not being able to influence decisions about their own local environment and the basis for the industry they're going to live on. I would also like to emphasise that protection must not mean the “premises” of areas, but that it must be possible to combine this with activities, as the Council of State also stated in its statement. My claim is that many of the protected areas depend on activity and housing. I think that often the best protection is done through sensible use. If areas and cultural landscapes grow again, this will have consequences for both biodiversity, business and not least housing. Nor should we forget that we have a comprehensive law that takes care of environmental and natural interests without going to the drastic step of protecting them. If such extensive protection and bonding is carried out that e.g.: agriculture has to give up, in my opinion, we have done ourselves and biodiversity a great bear service. We must not get into a situation where the countryside is depopulated because of restrictions on the use of the land that has for generations laid the basis for activity and housing. I recently talked to people in Kvänangen municipality in my own county, Troms, about issues related to the protection of areas in this municipality. They say that adopted and proposed protection is now so extensive that it significantly limits the development potential of the municipality in terms of future economic development. They say that the entire municipality is soon covered by some form of protection. I don't know if this is some sort of blackness, but there's signals that really bother me a lot, and that makes me ask questions about whether the people involved are being adequately heard in such cases. Therefore, I believe that more local influence is a strength when deciding such matters. This mitigates the level of conflict and eventually produces the best results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2166	Many say that Finnmark can be the new Rogaland. The most well-known resource in Finnmark is for the Nordics the most grazing resource in Finnmarksvidda. However, in addition, there are large mineral resources in the mountains, wind resources are available both along the coast and in mountain homes, and not least in the sea areas outside Finnmark oil and gas resources. In addition, you have a nature that is very well suited to tourism. Then I think we have to stress that tourism in Finnmark will probably be concentrated in the future around the summer months. However, in order to realise these large natural resources that both mineral resources on land and in the sea provide the Finnish countryside, there is a need to intervene in nature, for example. in order to ensure the power supply of these areas, to enable mineral extraction and, of course, to facilitate tourism. I react when the Council of State says that we provide the Sami nutrient base, because it is not that the majority of the Finnmark partners are reindeer-farming. The majority of people in Finnmark participate in the same business as the Nordics in Finnmark do, and they get just as much difficulty in their nutrition as the ethnic Northmen in the region do. Then I would like to link some comments to the Accession of the Progress Party to the National Park Plan. The National Park Plan — drawn up in 1991 and adopted in the United Kingdom in 1992–93 — could have been a success for the Progress Party. But now it is that a number of the protections, including in Finnland, which are implemented in accordance with that plan, are both larger than what was laid down at the time, they have a different protection category, and the protection management is a lot more stringent than what was laid down at the time. In addition, the protection of private property in national parks was not possible between 1992 and 1993. It is now done in Upper Anárjohka – another principle that has been broken from then on. The representative of Fredriksen has pointed out that Upper Anárjohka has also been expanded several times in comparison to what Stortinget has done in its treatment. So I agree with the Council when he says we have to stick to the decisions you make. I also hope that the Council of State will take note of this request in such a way that when a decision is taken in this case, you will see to it that the Stortinget decided in due course. Then what the Council of State pointed to is the adoption of a new law of natural diversity. The Progress Party voted mostly there as well, and I am pleased that the Council of State now attaches great importance to local government being the basis of these areas of protection. It was a long way to get the Council of State to accept it as an important premise before the law was passed. Therefore, my heart is warmed that the Council of State is now placing great emphasis on local management of the protection areas. Anyway, I'm a little worried when the Council of State assumes that we're done defining what local government should be. I think we have to realize that we have a job to do before we come up with a sensible system of balancing both the interests of the state and local democracy in these issues. I have often said in dialogue with the State Council, Solheim, that it seems that the Ministry of Environmental Protection is very concerned with square kilometres, and with the extension of the protection in Upper Anárjohka, I think it seems a lot about the need for the Ministry of the Environment to hang a board to show that now you have protected x the number of square kilometers more. So you're doing it across Stortinget's wishes from 1993. In the case of National Park Municipalities, on which the Council of State spends some time in its contribution, it is not that applicants who did not already have large national parks applied to become National Park Municipalities. Once half or two thirds of their municipality has been protected, it is fully understandable that these local politicians want to get funds from the Ministry of the Environment to make the best possible use of the areas they have received. Now I am so lucky, like the Council of State, that I have had the opportunity to visit the rapporteur, Simen Bjørgen, in Lom, one of the rapporteurs who gets the highest turnout. Unfortunately, he's a center partyer and not a FrP. But I haven't even been presented once during my visit to Lom for any desire to expand the protected areas of Lom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2189	There's been a lot of talk about the Center Party today. At least you can't accuse the State Council of Solheim of having gone to the elections on the term "protection break." But it is actually others among his colleagues who won quite a lot of votes on a great concept for not so much time back, – long, long after 1993 when the Council of State of Solheim now found its way back to. The concept of counter-power is also a clever concept that has been used in these debates, and which in particular one of the red-green party leaders likes to use as a term invaluables. The counterpower is a great word, which I think meets a lot in this debate here. At the same time, they have a different concept: most decisions are to be taken where people live. I think you'll find this term far inside the Soria Moria statement without you being able to find it restated in the executive policy of the government. I think what's important to take into account in this debate, which is very important, is that a lot has happened from 1993 to today. The concept of non-interventional natural areas now permeates any form of planning. This is a term that is not allowed in Norwegian law at all. Well, government councils Solheim and others point to grossing-up and budget proposals when talking about how extensive the concept of non-interventional natural areas has now become in Norwegian planning. In fact, this whole area is about to deal with 50 pst. of the total land area in Norway. This is worth stopping and thinking about. This principle hits one to five kilometers away from any heavier, technical intervention, and this lies like a damp hand. When Solheim and others refer to gross domestic product and legislation and also in the budget proposal refer to 16 Norwegian laws affecting this area, we do not find in one of these 16 laws the words non-interventional natural areas used. We have to do something about that. From the Right, there is a need for reforms in State environmental and land management with a view to creating a better balance between state and local authorities. In recent years, the right to dispose of large areas and values has been transferred from local authorities to state authorities. Natural areas have traditionally been managed through careful local use. However, protection and land use are increasingly perceived as a conflict area between local authorities and central authorities. There are countless examples of conflicts without so many appearing to have needed within the walls of the Ministry of the Environment. But in Finnmark, you have a lot. You can find many examples in District Norway, in Coast Norway. You can go to Helgeland with a representative follow-up and ask what the rapporteurs in the red-green municipalities of Hattfjelldal, Grane, Wefsn and Hemnes think about the patron who has now affected the entire local activity of this significant active region. We have to do something about this. Now, when State Council Solheim points to much, much greater, local planning, I assume that he also refers to national parks, landscape conservation areas, nature reserves and other protected areas. I believe that the Council of State will not meet a single counter-representation in Stortinget if a proposition is put on the table here to introduce a far greater local involvement in these matters, which can park the Directorate of Nature Management, and which can reduce the County Council's hand around these matters. That I think will be received with a considerable joy. For locals, there is much more today with the impression that the forces that are trying to maintain residence and create activity know what the central authorities are against. But what in the name of heaven are these for? That kind of concept and exercise of power by moving larger parts of the decision foundation locally, I think all the parties will serve on without any part of Nature Norway being hit for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2206	For the Central Party, the management of resources is sustainable. In the world today there is an depletion of biodiversity. The eradication of animal and plant species causes irreversible damage and endangers the world’s food security. In Norway too, we must ensure that species and habitat types survive. It's not an easy task, and global warming doesn't make it any easier to accelerate this negative development. Good environmental policy is balanced between use and protection. Sustainable use of nature is often the best way to take care of biological values. At the same time, it is central that power and responsibility are decentralised to ensure that local knowledge is used in environmental policy. The inter-pellant points to a theme that will be central to the discussion of protective matters: the balance between protection and use, and between governmental impositions and local resistance. Upper Anárjohka National Park is one example of protection in Finnmark. Here we see on the one hand that the proposed national park area is large converging wetlands and pine forests, as well as values related to river botany and Sami cultural memories. On the other hand, the resistance to the proposal is large locally. The municipalities, Finnmarks, the moving communities and others are moving towards either the extension of the national park, the creation of a nature reserve or both. They argue both in terms of, inter alia, the reindeer holding and the proportion of the area bounded. The Directorate for Mineral Management and the Geological Survey of Norway are opposed to the proposal with regard to rich ore resources. There is also reason to recall that large-scale extraction takes place just above the borders with Sweden and Finland, which provides a high potential for development in this region. This is a good example of the difficult balances that have to be made when the case comes to consideration. When that assessment is carried out, it is also central to have knowledge of where the vulnerable species may otherwise be found in the country and how important it is for their survival that this particular area is protected. The entrance of the centre party is divided into two parts: we have to take care of nature and leave it to the next generation in at least as good a condition as it was when we got it ourselves. It is absolutely central that we in the administration place great emphasis on creating a common understanding among the different social groups and actors of what challenges we are actually facing, what measures are actually necessary and how these can be implemented. The second pillar is care and respect for people's lifestyles and life activities and opportunities for nutrition development. Good environmental policy must be based on the responsibility of both the community and individuals. It is therefore essential that user interests are safeguarded, in addition to the necessary natural interests, so that the local population is involved. Therefore, in dealing with the protection issues, we need to listen to the local recordings that have come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2228	I will start by thanking the representative, Fredriksen, for addressing such an important issue that affects, and perhaps not least involving, many in my home country. The question of protecting the offspring is not what characterizes the debate at home. Most people agree that protection is important and that we should take our natural share of land protection in Norway. It was just supposed to be missing. The councils mentioned that we are facing an expansion of both Anárjohka National Park in Karasjok and a new national park in Kautokeino: Goahteluoppal. If these protection proposals are adopted, 13 pst. of the area in Finnland be protected. That's a lot. When we also know that an important industry, such as the reindeer industry in Finnland, is also land-intensive, and which through laws requires that land cannot be used freely for other nutritional purposes or purposes, then an increase of 13 pst is. quite considerable. Protection policy is important, and I think that most people agree on it and understand it. As mentioned, 13 pst. of the area in Finnmark will soon be protected, and then it's not very strange that many people ask themselves when enough is enough. It's a serious signal. It is particularly demanding in the interior of Finnland, especially in relation to the plans that lie in the extension of Anárjohka National Park. As far as I know, we have much of the same challenge in connection with the Kautokeino National Park. The interpellant mentioned Båtsfjord and Porsanger, and I am not going to repeat what he said about it, but I just want to add that in Porsanger, based on what is protected, Halkavarre occupies an area of up to 250 km2. Then it's not so nice that reaches 70 pst. allocated as bit-by-bit protection, it is difficult to create new activities in land use in Norway's fourth largest municipality. As representatives of big business, we are also ombudsmen of the population, and then it is important to communicate that many feel that the protection plans are directly involved in people's everyday lives, and many indicate that it is at work on the quality of life. I'm sure you can discuss how much and how much. What I know at least is that the expansion of Anárjohka National Park gives that feeling, because you live well with today's National Park, but enlargement creates a sense of reduced quality of life, because you use the area as it is today. One of the people we're going to listen to is County rapporteur Seestad in Finnmark when he claims that Finnmark will be the victim when large areas are to be protected. Such an opinion may be seen as a tabloid, but the message is not to be misunderstood. The statement probably comes from the feeling that many people see Finnmark as a large wilderness area, and that this makes it easy to run protective processes. Yes, Finnmark is a large geographical area, and we're few people on an area larger than Denmark. It is important to be able to exploit these areas in an interaction between protection and development. And that's perhaps the biggest challenge: how to create new jobs? How do you create new activity? The Council of State mentioned this in relation to the possibilities of the national park and travel life, but there is also a challenge in, among others: have discovered that there are large mineral resources close to the national park, and in particular the two national parks towards Kautokeino and Karasjok. I guess that's what creates some challenges in relation to creating new activity. The size decided a while ago to spend 25 million. kr per. three years to search for mineral deposits in Finnmark. There is no doubt that there are considerable opportunities for development in this area. Preliminary surveys and studies show that mineral resources in Finnmark represent large values. Therefore, it is important in this debate to listen to the signals that are coming, to create the impression that the population is being listened to, while also giving the opportunity to create new nourishment. If you succeed in this area, I think we get a good balance between protection and development. In terms of protection policy – as in all policies – it is important to have a good foundation when implementing policy decisions. I am not so sure that we in Finnmark today have the anchor in the new plans for further protection to be realised. It's our job to succeed in getting it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2254	Let me thank the representative Fredriksen for addressing this important matter here in Stortinget. What Fredriksen focuses on is the bonding of protection and peace plans. There is – not to exaggerate – nothing that explicitly applies to Finnmark County. In the rest of the country, new measures on soil protection, landscape protection, restrictions due to the presence of endangered species, protection of architecture, building environments, conservation or conservation decisions of individual buildings, protection of riverbeds and wetlands, etc. are being implemented. etc. This is very good, very good! The Minister for the Environment pointed out that the Progress Party has voted for very much of this. We don't mind. We did that, and it was right that we did that. But we can't keep doing this indefinitely. So Norway with Svalbard is just 387 000 km2. Sooner or later, we have to stop. Maybe the time has come. Norway needs protected nature, but Norway also needs areas for ports, housing, infrastructure, roads, office buildings, industry, warehouses, supermarkets, hotels and restaurants, etc. etc. We must literally have something to live off in the future. So maybe we should think again. Maybe we should start at the other end? What if we got Minister of Environment Solheim to lead a work to find out the areas that definitely do not need protection? Maybe we should put off some areas where you want to make the sting the opposite of it to protect and say, "Be so good!" Come on! Let's go, let's go, let's go, Build high and heavy and plaster with concrete and asphalt! Let the areas be well covered with infrastructure, water supply and energy supply and provide the area with extremely liberal regulatory provisions and framework conditions! It doesn't have to be such a big area. One can only imagine the city we're now in the center of. So it has 600,000 inhabitants, which is probably about 12 to 13 pst. of the population of the country, with a construction zone of 120 km2. So Oslo City is one third of Norway's area. There are many advantages to this. By referring to these types of areas, we can reduce the pressure on those parts, in those areas and in those regions and natural areas of the country that we definitely do not want to be degraded for future generations. Moreover, it will make it much easier for businesses to establish themselves, instead of having to go through a forest of obstacles because there is a sea of restrictions and regulation provisions and difficulties, not least protective provisions, when trying to seek out darkness in order to find out areas to which the public at last can say yes. I could only have asked for the floor in this debate to say that there are other needs in this country than protected areas. Since Environment Minister Solheim himself mentioned Grünerløkka, I would like to say that if he had been Minister of Environmental Protection in Norway 150 years ago, Grünerløkka city would not be built. For Grünerløkka was a beautiful natural area – there were lots of beautiful trees, grasses, and small sheep that walked and grassed in the area of Grünerløkka. There were even some small salamander puddles, which today are definitely not being touched. They're being protected to keep it going. Besides, there was floor ice on Grünerløkka. Yellow road is a red-listed species. There were also several species of rosin. If you had done what we are doing today 100-150 years ago, most of the Norwegian cities would never be built – this to reflect. I think there's reason to think new in terms of protection. We've come very far, and we're proud of that. But we also have needs other than protection interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2275	Finnmark is Norway's largest country in area, with scarcely 73 000 inhabitants divided by 48 649 km2. Finnland is both beautiful and wild, with large portions of untouched nature and variation between coast and inland. I live on an island where 71° north passes in the middle of the island. It'll look careless for most people who come there, but despite limited vegetation and difficult growth conditions, the sea is full of fish, the islands around the bays of dents, the ripe temptations of hunters, and reindeer meat are stuck on the menu in most Finnish homes. We Finnmarks are happy in our beautiful state, and we care about taking care of nature. But we also want to use the resources that exist there. It's the resources that make people live in Finnmark. Norway's largest share of mineral resources is in our state, wind can be tamed to wind power, fish provide many jobs, and Snow White gives much optimism in Hammerfest. We Finnmarkings are not against protection. We need to take care of pristine nature, and we have national parks in Upper Anárjohka, in Upper Pasvik, in Varangerhalv Island, in Stabbursdalen and in Seiland. In total, these areas constitute, before any extension of Upper Anárjohka, 4 376 km2 – almost 10 pst. of the area of Finnland. However, as several others have said, more bounded and regulated areas: we have national salmon fjords where fish farming is restricted. Large parts of the municipality of Porsanger are bound for protection through the National Park and the disposal of land by the Defence. Porsangs are probably Norway's most connected municipality, where other than the municipality itself disposes of and manages the land. There is no simple situation for the local government in Porsanger. They feel limited in the use of their land despite the fact that the municipalities are given land authority. Any disposal of land, including protection, must take place in close cooperation with the local population, represented by the local authorities. Growth and protection need not be a contrast and especially not in a state as scattered as Finnmark is. We who live there should be able to develop businesses, create new businesses and exploit natural resources, but we also have a responsibility to take care of our own nature. The Finnland nature is a tax chamber and a possibility of recreation and natural experiences for more than the population of the county. Many Nordics have got their eyes up for Finnmark's harsh and beautiful nature, not least through the Finnmark race, which goes in the winter, and Lars Monsen's tours over the wide. We would like to receive more visits. We don't need any more protection of our nature. We need more use. Bring the jogging shoes and hikes in the mountains of Finnland, and we can guarantee that you get protective memories, but also a desire to use nature even more. Fredriksen's perception of protection is that there is fresh air and nature that we do not have access to, that we cannot use nature and the fresh air. It's not like that. We can also move in protected areas. However, if we are to have popular support for protection, local communities must be involved, listened to and could influence the outcome. Back, communities must take seriously and fight against, inter alia: illegal land use, which is an ever-increasing problem in Finnland. Our nature is to be used, but not abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2310	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an interesting and good debate. I think the commitment that has been here in the hall among many of the representatives shows that there is an important issue that is being addressed. There have been many good speeches, and there have been different political views. There's nothing unusual in such debates, but what's interesting is that here you can't really see where the political divisions go. I would say that Finnmark is really the most exciting county we have in Norway, with the opportunities for activity at sea, then I think of fishing, breeding, royal crabs and petroleum activities, and the enormous opportunities you have for activity on land, also to use the protected areas, and for mining activity. Finnmark is also a neighbour of Russia. When I say Finnmark is one of the most exciting states, I come from Troms, but I'll always be able to live with that. What I've reacted to is part of the terms that the Council of State comes up with. He uses expressions like it's important to have a dialogue with those affected, to have an open procedure, and to listen. That's nice words. That's honorary. There are words that are coming about in a debate. But the reality is quite different, because the more and more communities are constantly experiencing, and as the interpellant also takes up its interpellant, is that unanimous community, unanimous statehood, unanimous municipal governments are being overrun by what can be called the state, and given protection. There are many in this debate that have taken up. I would like to pay tribute to Bendiks H. Arnesen, who comes from the Workers' Party and represents Troms – the same state as me – who pointed out the major problems you experience in the district. I get the same feedback. I also think Kåre Simensen had many good points in his post, and so did Ingaill Olsen. What is experienced in this interpellation is that representatives from the areas concerned have a completely different view of reality from what the Council of State expresses. The Council of State is pushing ahead with a big message that was addressed in 1993. What you could say is that maps and terrain are no longer consistent. It has gone much further than what was mandated during that process. The world has moved on since the beginning of the 1990s. Most people have brought it. What is the challenge in many districts, including in Finnland, is that you have areas that are economically weak with very limited opportunities for activity, and that's really where the shoe prints. Norway has a good tradition of caring for the areas in which it is located. Owners and users are therefore best placed to understand and protect. I have to say I trust the Finnmarks. I think local democracy is capable of finding out whether you want protection or not, and what you might want to do with these areas. Then, as the Council of State says, protected areas can be used. Yes, I use a lot of the protected areas when I go on a trip, fishing, hunting or doing other things. However, if you want business activity in the form of other types of measures, you stop it. That's where the problem lies. The representative Myhre had many good comments in his post. He referred to what would have happened to Grünerløkka if the Minister for the Environment had been Minister for the Environment a few hundred years ago. If the Environment Minister had been Minister of Environmental Protection under the Stone Age, we would still have been in the Stone Age, but it would certainly have been forbidden to live in a cave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2327	I have the impression that everyone who has taken part in the debate has understood – very well – what this is all about. The only person I'm sitting with a feeling that I haven't understood is the Council of State, which is on a completely different track from the other debaters. I want to ask the Council of State directly about a few things. It is such that the Storting has given a mandate. That mandate was intended to assess the possible extension of the Upper Anárjohka National Park downwards to the Gossjohka Valley, not upwards of the Anárjohka Valley. That mandate has never been given by Stortinget. The area for which an impact assessment was mandated was primarily limited to the so-called non-interventional nature category of wild-field areas, i.e. areas more than 5 km from heavier technical intervention, such as roads, open conch loops, power lines, etc. The majority did not want to provoke any conflict with the local population, and it was therefore a clear premise that this process did not include areas with a high potential for conflict. Has it been done? In the event of an extension, can the State Council respond to the question of landscape protection areas in Upper Anárjohka only being added to wilderness areas, other than existing areas where there is a greater degree of technical intervention? Can the Council of State answer if all the roads that are there today, and the rivers Gossohka and Anárjohka, still need to be publicly available for motorised traffic, because these are the years when the local population uses? There were two direct questions. I hope I can get an answer to two such clear questions – do not have a debate about illegal off-road driving.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2338	There has been an important, good and, to some extent, quite entertaining debate, in which the signatories have been placed in the 1850s, the Stone Age and other epochs. Now the red-green government is looking ahead, but if these are indications of how long we can sit similarly in the future, I think it's good ideas that we just have to take with us. Then there have been several different concepts – that enough is enough, and Myhre said that we should not protect indefinitely. That's exactly what was in my post. We have now come to the end of the National Parks Protection Plan. In 2010, we expect it to be completed. Then we set the line for something I believe has been a very proud epoch in Norwegian environmental protection, and as the Stortinget has managed to maintain under various governments. That's a very good thing. We will end it in 2010, and then there are not clearly many new, large areas of protection, but then we will move on to other themes. Three speakers from the Workers' Party and also the speakers from the Centre were concerned with the difficult local balances between protection and use. Ingenill Olsen also said that protection through use is the best protection, and I share that view. When you can use an area in a reasonable way in line with the purpose of protection, it is the best form of protection. The answers to the questions asked by the interpellant are among the themes to be considered in depth in meeting the municipalities. We need to listen to the locals. Local adaptations have been made in relation to all former national parks in order to achieve this in the best possible way. Of course, there may always be people who aren't good enough in dialogue, but the clear incentive I'm sending is: Let's have a good conversation about it to see how far we're going to get it in a way that's of both local and national interest. But if the debate has been good, it has not always been as precise. Let me illustrate the lack of precision in the opposition. Yesterday the right in the spontaneous question hour said 70 pst. the area of Norway is affected by non-interventional natural areas. Today, the right comes up and says that up to 50 pst. Norway is affected by non-interventional natural areas. The difference between 50 pst. and 70 pst. is equal to Finnmark County and Troms County together. So it makes a difference. None of the numbers are correct in my opinion, but one day it's 50 pst. And the other day it's 70 pst. It's entertainment, and it's good for the new programme, but it's not good if you want a precise discussion about protection policy. One of the people I look up at on the wall – and I look up at the anaesthetic about former Environment Ministers – who, together with Thorbjørn Berntsen, have perhaps contributed most to Norwegian protection policy, is Børge Brende. He re-established the National Park Plan, made it his main concern and got a lot of protection. He even got to the amazing openings of the national parks that we now have. So the Right should follow in his footsteps, not always raise conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2351	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2365	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2381	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2397	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2413	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2429	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2445	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2461	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2477	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2493	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2509	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2526	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2542	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2558	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2574	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2590	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1229]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e2598	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3034	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3042	For this matter, one proposal has been put forward from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that an evaluation of the alert paragraph is carried out by the end of 2011 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3048	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3072	For this matter, a total of four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2-4, from Laila Marie Reiertsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to draw up guidelines on the handling of alerts by the Ministry, public offices and establishments.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to set up its own warning department in the Labour Inspectorate, which is given the necessary powers to follow-up alert cases, and to have the necessary skills to assist in alerting matters in the workplace.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government is asked to establish a sample to evaluate the implementation of the alert paragraphs introduced in 2007. The size assumes that such a sample should be with members of the employment organisations and that the sample must also include at least one member who has been alerted. The committee shall propose amendments to the law to govern the protection of alerts.’;» In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be put on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, says: ‘A. Adoption of laws amending Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3130	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The President assumes that the Left also supports the proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3154	Two proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1 by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 2, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of Right The President will first vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose a 450-hour rule, in accordance with the model from Denmark, adapted to Norwegian social security systems, setting out specific activity requirements for immigrants outside the EU area in order to be able to access Norwegian welfare schemes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3182	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:143 S [[2009-2010]] The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3200	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3208	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 18 November 2010: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary changes to the law so that, in cases where expulsion from the State has been decided on because of the criminal situation, foreign nationals who were members of the public security before the detention took place are deprived of membership in public security.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3227	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 18 November 2010: ‘The government asks the government to start work on the winding-up of the compensation scheme for prisoners with foreign citizenship.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3242	In Case No: 10 and 11 no voting theme is available. Voting in Case No 12–26
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3248	The President went through the cases in detail. 12–26 when they were in treatment a few minutes ago. If the assembly doesn't want to hear them again, or has very big counter-conceptions against them, the president will now propose that they vote together over case number. 12–26. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-02.ana.ud504e3264	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
