ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e41	From the representatives Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Bård Hoksrud and Snorre Serigstad Valen, there are applications for leave from 14 January to 18 January – all to participate as OSCE observers in the presidential elections in Ukraine. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Telemark County: Kåre Fostervold and Lene VågslidFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e73	Kåre Fostervold, Lene Wagslid and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik are present and will take the seat. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e78	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Svein Flätten, Øyvind Halleraker, Frank Bakke Jensen, Henning Warloe, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself to put forward proposals on personal savings and employee participation in companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e83	The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e86	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I am delighted to propose to the Government the authorisation to reduce the VAT on electricity and electricity in periods of exceptionally high electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e91	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e105	I would like to start by thanking the various fractions and members of the Committee for their good cooperation during the discharge of this matter. The matter concerns the extent to which bodies entrusted with control tasks of the Storting must be given access to the documents which they deem necessary to carry out their control tasks. It is a unanimous committee that provides guidance to the administration – specifically in this matter linked to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The correction is as follows: the inspection bodies — in this case the Civil Ombudsman — shall have access to the documents deemed necessary by the Civil Ombudsman to clarify the matter, without reservation. It is a long practice for – although I said ‘without reservation’ – that political documents that are part of the discussion that precedes the fact that the government as a body is collectively responsible for the decisions are the property of the members of the government and the government. It will always be in such cases — at least very often — of disagreement. Such documents are called government notes. There has never been any question of transparency in that type of document. This case has its background in the fact that in order to deal with a complaint from a citizen – in this case a journalist – the Civil Ombudsman had called for access to documents from the Public Prosecutor, in line with the usual routine. The Ministry of Oil and Energy refused such transparency. The case received broad public attention. The Prime Minister's office was also asked to intervene in the matter, chose not to do so, so I perceive that there is a collective government that has supported the practice of the oil and energy minister in this matter. The size now determines that the practice needs to be changed. Before this treatment happened, the practice has changed, so two days ago there was a notice from the Civil Ombudsman that he had been given the documents he had previously been refused, and that the case as such had ended. For the sake of order, the Committee also points to the possibility of using the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Ombudsman’s Act as a justification for non-delivery of documents – or in another way, as a justification that it is the administration that is to determine which documents the Civil Ombudsman should have access to, and not vice versa. If there is a justification that will be used, the Committee says that the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Ombudsman Act is being amended and may come back to this point. However, in the Committee's view, any reasonable interpretation implies that the second paragraph of Section 7 cannot be used on such grounds. But there are many ways in which there is a warning to future government councils and administrations that if you want to use such a justification, the Stortinget as the legislative authority will re-examine this question. This is an important matter, because it is about the relationship between collapse and government, and it is about the ability of the supervisory authorities to do their job. I am convinced that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that the Civil Ombudsman is doing a very important job on behalf of the individual citizen, in order to ensure the legal certainty of the citizen in contact with the administration, and that the Riksaudition – which is not mentioned in this case, but in previous cases dealt with by the Stortinget – also carries out control tasks that make it necessary for them to have access to the necessary documents. In an earlier case, Document No. 1 for 2009–2010 from the Control and Constitutional Committee, which concerns the audit of the accounts for the previous year, a matter of lack of transparency in documents was also addressed by the Ministry of the Environment in this case. The size also said the same thing: it is not the departments that will decide what is to be delivered to the control bodies. It's the National Audit Office that's going to require what they need to know. For the sake of order, of course, it must be stated that the supervisory authorities are bound by professional secrecy with regard to the documents they receive. The question can be asked: why in the world has the Ministry of Oil and Energy been able to create a case of this, considering that they have now turned around? I have trouble seeing that. If the Council of State can help to shed light on this, it may at least be interesting for the sake of history. However, in any event, practice is very clear hereafter: it is not the administration which shall determine the transparency of the control bodies, it is the task of the control bodies to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e124	Let me thank the case rapporteur for both flexibility and flexibility, and for taking the time necessary to arrive at a unanimous committee position. The rapporteur has also presented the matter in an excellent manner. This concerns – as Per-Kristian Foss said – more principles than the very specific case mentioned in Document No. 4:2 for 2008-2009. This setting concerns the principle that the control bodies of the Grand Duchy must have the necessary framework conditions to carry out their work on behalf of the Grand Duchy and to guarantee the ordinary man and woman rights in relation to the administration. Under the law on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration, the Ombudsman may raise cases on his own initiative and external complaints. Anyone who considers that he has been wronged by the administration may lodge a complaint with the Ombudsman. It might be worth reminding ourselves about this. But the precondition for the Ombudsman to be able to do his job is, of course, that he must be able to see the documents provided by the Public Service Act or obtain the information he needs in order to carry out his duties. Of course, it must be considered that the Ombudsman treats the documents confidentially. It should also be added here. It is necessary to ensure a framework for the role of the Civil Ombudsman in examining the administrative procedures and decisions. The Ombudsman’s right of access is governed by the law of the Ombudsman § 7. The second paragraph of the paragraph gives – as has also been said here – a slight restriction by reference to Section 22 of the Arbitration Act. A unanimous committee emphasises that § 22-5 of the Arbitration Act is not regarded as an obstacle to the Ombudsman's transparency in documents drawn up for the purpose of the administrative investigation or preparation of matters. Whereas there must be serious grounds for exemption from this general rule, which the Committee cannot see in the case under consideration; There is also a unanimous committee – it should be added – that has considered amending the second paragraph of Section 7. Let me add: it's the Storting that changes the Ombudsman's law – I'll call it a big law, if it's possible to call it that. It is important for us, as big ones, that we are constantly system critics. It's part of our ombudsman role. A strong and good public sector, effective management, is a prerequisite for both smoothing, well-being and a level playing field for all. However, just as it is important to convert public activities to become more efficient and user-friendly, it is equally important that we provide vigilance that prevents users from feeling overwhelmed or mistreated. Therefore, the Civil Ombudsman is also important in a complex and comprehensive public system to ensure the ordinary man and woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e145	Let me also be allowed to thank the case rapporteur for a good job and for a good contribution to coordinating the committee, which has resulted in a unanimous attitude on a very important case in principle. The Ombudsman is the Ombudsman of Storting and thus deals directly with Stortinget. This specific notification is an example of how the Civil Ombudsman can report to the Stortinget. He shall ensure that our citizens are not subjected to injustice and act as the extended arm of the Storting in order to check out the management's handling of individual cases. In order for the Civil Ombudsman to carry out this work, it is essential that he has access to and access to the information the Civil Ombudsman himself considers necessary to comment on specific matters. The Ombudsman thus carries out control activities on the basis of specific complaints from citizens. It is a fundamental principle to ensure the quality of control activities that it is the controller who defines what is necessary in terms of transparency in order to be effective and correct. Of course, it is not the case that the controller is the one being checked to define the need for transparency. From the outside, it seems quite strange that Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, has refused transparency with reference to Section 22-5 of the Arbitration Act. In that position, a unanimous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee rejected this as a legal basis in this specific case. The Progress Party has previously proposed and continues to believe that an amendment to the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Ombudsman Act would clarify the reference to Chapter 22 of the Arbitration Act. It will ensure both one against possible future misunderstandings, and it may lead to a real improvement in the transparency of the Civil Ombudsman. On 15 December 2009, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee gave its unanimous opinion on the current state of play. On 18 December the Ministry forwarded the document which is the subject of this proceedings to the Civil Ombudsman. It was delivered quickly. But it does not change the principle side of the matter, nor does it change the basis of the criticism that obviously affects the Council of State in this matter. I take the view that all the departments take note of the Committee's unique views on this specific matter, so as not to be tempted to repeat the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman on the basis of which it is stated in the future. I hope that this also leads to an increased awareness in the Government regarding transparency in general and transparency for the Supervisory Body of the Storting in particular. In this context, it is worth noting what the rapporteur said, about transparency in relation to the Riksrevision on other matters that have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e162	I will not extend the debate unnecessarily. The matter has been explained by the previous speakers. Just a few things in relation to the principle: the question of why the department so quickly handed out the letter requires the Council of State to also state whether or not the Government has changed its legal position in understanding the relevant paragraph, and whether or not it will still be stated in other contexts that when the Civil Ombudsman asks for transparency, you draw a parallel to the limited access to legal communication by the courts. I think it's very important that you clarify it from the Government's side – and I expect the Council of State to act as an overall government representative here today. If the fact that they have now handed over their assessment to the Civil Ombudsman is only relevant to a single case where it has been assessed in detail that the letter will still be delivered, I would say that in the event that it will require a follow-up from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. But if the Council of State says that the parallel you have previously withdrawn is withdrawn, and that a requirement of transparency by the Civil Ombudsman is in a position different from the one you have previously referred to in relation to the Court, then the Committee does not have a similar need to go further on a general basis. But I actually think it is necessary for the Council of State to clarify that. The Ombudsman writes – and he is not a big-room person – that without access to the file requested, it is impossible for the Ombudsman to decide whether the transparency issue has been properly dealt with – it was therefore impossible to deal with it on a general basis. It was absolutely necessary to get the relevant file, and that is what Stortinget has agreed to with this setting today. But I attend to the Council of State's assessment of both what Per-Christian Foss addressed, and now the undersigned asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e173	Very Card: I want to pink the case spokesman for having demonstrated the necessary flexibility in order to achieve this. One could quickly have got a locked situation where the plurals came into a position that would have been difficult to get out of. But here we have had a very good cooperation with the case spokesman, which meant that today we have the result that we have. I also agree with what the representative from the Labour Party said in his statement. Just one comment at the end: I also thought it was important to express my pressure on this matter. After all, Bergen's magazine here has helped us get this result. We should not forget that today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e180	This case concerns the fact that Bergen's Official Journal was refused access to a statement concerning a former employee in the department from the Public Prosecutor to the OED, and complained about the rejection of the rejection to the Civil Ombudsman. In my view, it was then not necessary to send the Civil Ombudsman the relevant document in the case. After having been made aware of the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee, Innst. 121 S for 2009-2010, however, I chose to send the document to the Civil Ombudsman on Friday, 18 December 2009, in line with the Committee's position, without waiting for the Storting to be discussed. By letter of 8 January 2010, the Ombudsman notified Bergen’s Official Journal of the following: ‘After a review of the document and the Ministry’s explanatory memorandum, it must be assumed that the Ministry has its seat in public law in order to keep the document from public opinion.’ Furthermore, it appears that the appeal procedure has been terminated by the Civil Ombudsman. The Ministry of Oil and Energy received a copy of the letter as an attachment to a separate letter from the Civil Ombudsman, where he writes that he has not found any reason to proceed with investigations of the complaint. Then I would just like to comment on what the representative Syversen and the representative Foss raised regarding the practice in similar cases after this. For my part, there is only one conclusion to that, and it is, of course, the will of the Storting that also applies in these questions. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e194	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e197	I thank you for the brief presentation by the Council of State. I just want to clarify what the matter is actually about, and that there is a clear perception of it. I got the impression that the council thought the matter was about the transparency requirement from the Official Journal of Bergen, which is not the issue. It concerns whether the Department of the Council of State has been authorised to refuse access to the relevant document by the Civil Ombudsman. Since this is the subject of the case, and the Council of State in so far as it said in the follow-up, I just want it to be quite clear and the Council of State states that we agree that for the future, the Civil Ombudsman will then have access to this kind of file.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e204	I fully agree with the representative Anundsen on what the matter is, and I can only refer to what I just said from Stortinget's pulpit about further processes on similar issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e209	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1528]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e229	Medicines and medical treatment save lives and health, it relieves and cures. Since the introduction of Hippocrate's therapeutic principles 400 years B.C., medicines have changed society and also given us new opportunities. The development of new medicinal products has almost eradicated diseases that have previously been eradicated. Medical development has given people longer lives and better quality of life. It is mainly the pharmaceutical industry itself that has driven this development further. The pharmaceutical industry is often produced in a negative light. It's a paradox, because we're totally dependent on someone making money to develop new drugs. Can we imagine a system in which the development of medicinal products took place under state control? Then I'm convinced that most of the drugs we know today had only been future scenarios. We're still going to have a critical look at this industry's business, but we're not just going to have a critical look. The last right was in government, major changes were made to the pharmaceutical policy. This reduced the prices of medicinal products in Norway. The pharmaceutical industry was also challenged on ethics and the relationship with the health services. That challenge took the industry. In my opinion, a lot has been done to clean up. The systems have become more transparent and there are clearer guidelines on how to place themselves on the market against the health system. I therefore believe that the pharmaceutical industry can now meet the Norwegian public with a raised head. The last time the Stortingen dealt with the pharmaceutical policy as a whole was in the context of the last civil government presenting the pharmaceutical notification in 2005. At that time, Stortinget joined three policy objectives: availability independent of the user’s economy, proper use — both professional and economic — and the most reasonably feasible medicinal products for society. In terms of proper use professionally, I will refer you to the interpellation debate on this which Right Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve travelled in the Stortinget before Christmas. The main objective of medicinal policy is to ensure that Norwegian patients have good access to effective treatment. The aim is primarily the proper use of medicinal products, not least the possible use of medicinal products. Studies show that Norway has moderate consumption of medicinal products compared to other countries. In several areas, we see that Norwegian patients do not have as fast and good access to new treatments as patients in other western countries. The size of the population decreased in 2005 among others. to a multi-stage transfer of individual medicinal products from an individual to a pre-authorised refund, so that patients have good access to the necessary treatment. Unfortunately, in recent years, developments have gone in the opposite direction, which both weakens the supply of patients and the framework conditions for industry. There is a broad political consensus that reimbursement for medicines is a priority issue that ultimately has to be decided politically. However, there is a need for a more effective reimbursement system to ensure that patients have access to medicines more quickly. The majority asked in 2005 that the so-called de minimis limit be raised. It has not been done and therefore the use of new medicinal products is delayed. The right also wants matters recommended by the State Medicines Agency for reimbursement to be mentioned in the State budget, regardless of whether the Government has recommended a refund or not. If medicinal products are to be placed in a political priority context, Stortinget must know what priority is between them. You don't do that today. We need to ensure that new forms of treatment are covered more quickly by the funding systems in hospitals so that healthcare businesses are able to cover the costs of such treatment. We know that the Norwegian company Photocure has developed an effective method of diagnosis of bladder cancer, but that its use is prevented by the lack of reimbursement of the costs of healthcare companies – while the method has been used correctly in our neighbouring countries. As mentioned above, it is important to ensure that the patient has good access to the necessary medicinal products. It is also important that the prices of medicinal products are kept at a reasonable level, so that we get the most cost-effective use of medicinal products. There's a lot of evidence that we're on the right track to achieve that exact 2005 target. Since 2004, the total cost of medicines on blue prescription has decreased every year. The same is true of public expenditure on medicinal products per year. person done. Although drug use has increased, we are now at the bottom of the Nordic region. We have turned Denmark as far as we were well over in 2003. In view of developments elsewhere in public welfare and health expenditure, this is really incredible. In 2009, we spent over 300 million. kr less for medicinal products than that with which the Storting had budgeted for this year. This is mainly due to the fact that we have gained more competition in the pharmaceutical market as a result of the policy put in place by the Bondevik II administration and that the system of ensuring the transition to copying products came at a time when major medicinal products were in the process of being patented. National Audit Office, Document No. 3:7 for 2008-2009, Norway is among the countries in Europe with the lowest prices of interchangeable medicines included in the tier price system. At the same time, the review shows that there is still a need for measures to stimulate lower prices. It is a challenge that negotiated discounts on the purchasing side do not benefit patients to a large extent. Today’s structure of vertical integration between wholesale and retail sectors leads to weaker competition in the market and, therefore, measures should be introduced to stimulate increased competition, with lower prices of medicinal products. Today’s full range requirements at wholesale level should be abolished in order to contribute to more efficient distribution solutions and the establishment of new wholesalers, at the discretion of the Right. However, the full range requirement in pharmacies must be maintained to ensure that patients continue to have good access to the necessary medicinal products. During the time of the Right Government, during the Cooperation Government, experimental schemes were introduced for the sale of non-pharmaceutical medicinal products. It is still necessary to improve and, in particular, extend this regime to several medicinal products. In summary, many of the measures designed to ensure lower public expenditure on medicinal products have actually been implemented. However, in the 2005 Storing Communication, it was also thought that this should be combined with the fact that the patient had faster access to new drugs. The measures that would lead to this have not been implemented to a large extent. In some areas it has actually gone in the wrong direction. We have concrete examples of this leading to a lack of prevention work – patients are sicker than necessary, and patients are iller than necessary. We have new medicines that are waiting and that could benefit the patient, while the state spends less money on drugs than the Stortinget has actually granted. That is why, in my view, there is a need to implement the pharmaceutical policy of Stortinget in the past, but at the same time start a new review to update the instruments. In particular, there is a need to raise a fourth aspect of medicinal policy: the framework conditions for the development of a Norwegian pharmaceutical industry and the possibility of research and development in the field of medicinal products — and new medicinal products — in Norway. Norway will never be able to become a major force in medicine or the pharmaceutical industry, but we have many good prerequisites for developing an important role within niches linked to new medicine. For example, I can. present Oslo Cancer Cluster and the work of its members in the field of cancer research and the development of medicine and diagnostics in the field of cancer. It will be an area where Norway has all the prerequisites for taking a leading role. We also have a starting point, linked to our medical and health records, which enable us to test out new medicines and test the use of new diagnostic methods. Today, this requires other framework conditions. It requires a significant commitment to research and development. It requires a review of the framework conditions that this industry needs to develop in Norway. This requires, inter alia: the establishment, as the Stortinget said earlier, of a centre for testing new medicine at our largest hospital, so that we have the opportunity to test out new medicine in Norway. I hope that this debate will be able to point forward towards a new and more offensive pharmaceutical policy, and not least that it will lead to changes that will benefit Norwegian patients from the reduction in expenditure on medicines that we have had in recent years. I hope that this reduction will give you faster access to new, and perhaps even in some contexts, more expensive, medicines than what you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e265	Medicinal products are an important part of our health services. Treatment with medicinal products contributes to the improvement of health and quality of life for many people, and for some patients it can also mean a longer life span. My responsibility as Minister of Health and Care is to facilitate the good and proper use of medicines, so that patients receive safe and safe treatment, and so that the health crowns are also used in the best possible way. This is in line with the overall objectives of pharmaceutical policy, and I do not see the need to reassess them immediately. The 2005 communication of the medicinal product presented a wide range of measures to meet the policy objectives. However, it is necessary that we continually assess the appropriateness of the measures and the need to introduce new ones. In recent years, a number of new instruments and procedures have been put in place to control public expenditure on medicines. This applies both to pricing and to reimbursement. Cost-effectiveness requirements have been established as a basic principle of reimbursement, and in large therapeutic areas, a dramatic reduction in the cost of medical treatment has been achieved, which was also referred to by the interpellant. This is due, inter alia, to: measures to benefit from patent outcome and competition between suppliers. Since 2004, public expenditure on medicinal products has remained stable. It is also documented that Norwegian pharmaceutical prices are low compared to other countries in northern and western Europe. This shows that we have managed to control the cost of medicines. It is my opinion that the whole population has good access to effective medicines regardless of their ability to pay. One important reason for this is that Norway is involved in European cooperation in medicinal products — the EMEA. This means that the whole EEA area has common procedures for the authorisation of medicinal products and the monitoring of adverse reactions. Although the situation is generally good, of course, I'm concerned that we're going to get even better. Among other things, the Health Directorate has proposed improvements to the system of individual reimbursement of the population. In the follow-up to the report of the Directorate and through other work, I would like to pay great attention to ensuring that the public access to effective medicines. The pharmaceutical industry naturally has a significant interest in the rapid and widespread use of medicinal products. Sometimes we have common interests, but it is important to be aware that not all new medicines have a reasonable cost effect. I want to give priority to measures to ensure the proper medical use of medicinal products. As I explained in my answer to the interpellation of the representative Røbekk Nørve this fall, I am very concerned about putting in place systems and measures that can ensure safe medical treatment, wherever in the healthcare patient is. The main measures include reviews of medicinal products and discussions. Multidose is a measure to help the patient take medicines correctly, i.e. that patients are given ready-to-use packs of properly dosed medicinal products. We will work to ensure that more patients can benefit from this offer. We also need to put in place better documentation systems. An example of this is the electronic core file where healthcare professionals have access to information about the patient that may be essential to prevent mismedication. Research and innovation are important for better use of medicines. As the representative emphasises, the importance of research and innovation has become clearer since the issue of the Stortingen Communication. The government has also presented an innovation message and a new research message that both raise health as a priority area. The focus on medical and health research and innovation is also evident in St.meld. No 30 for 2008-2009 Climate for Research. The pharmaceutical industry is an important contributor to the funding of clinical studies. However, this research needs to be complemented by publicly funded studies on patient groups and issues that do not have commercial interests or where the public sees a particular need for increased knowledge. This could be done, for example, by: are comparative studies of medicinal products used in the same diagnosis and studies comparing medicinal products use with other forms of treatment. Such research is primarily publicly funded by the Norwegian Research Council – for 2010 the amount is 250 million. kr. Appropriations for regional health enterprises in 2010 were budgeted for 458 million. kr. Regional health enterprises have a statutory responsibility for research. They also have a specific responsibility for patient-oriented clinical research involving drug trials. I am pleased that regional health companies have followed up, so that we can now demonstrate that research activity in health businesses has increased in recent years, in line with the requirements to strengthen research and innovation. The Ministry has called on regional health companies to establish a common national database to give us a comprehensive overview of the clinical studies being conducted in the regions. It shall specify the type of study involved, the number of patients involved and how the study is funded. This is important information that can provide a basis for further policy-making. We will also look at the possibilities for increased Nordic cooperation on clinical studies. In this case, the aim will be to strengthen the Nordics in the competition for industrially funded and publicly funded clinical studies. In addition, several clinical trials in Norway will improve access for Norwegian patients to trial treatment with new medicinal products. The Innovation Communication An innovative and sustainable Norway is committed to continuing and broadening the focus on needs-driven and research-driven innovation between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The bet is valid for 10 years to come. The two departments follow up, and cooperation agreements have been established between InnoMed, Innovation Norway, the Research Council and the regional health enterprises. A common action plan for innovation has also been established between regional health businesses. As I see it, there is no need to reconsider the overall objectives of pharmaceutical policy. But, of course, we constantly consider whether the measures are appropriate and whether we should introduce new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e299	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I want to demand in the further debate are indications as to whether it is relevant for the Government to come back and actually propose what the Storting so to speak unanimously agreed to in the pharmaceutical notification. This applies not only to individual reimbursement, as the Council of State so far was concerned, and where I perceive that there is a work going on, but also to the question of raising the de minimis limit. The Council of State said that the pharmaceutical industry has a great interest in obtaining a rapid authorisation for new medicinal products and that one there has a common interest. It is quite obvious that the industry has it, but it is also obvious that Norwegian patients, and thus society, are in many cases very interested in the rapid authorisation of new medicines. However, it is at that stage, after our leading professionals, the State Medicines Agency and the Health Directorate, have recommended a medicinal product from a community perspective and an economic perspective, that it takes a particular long time before a medicinal product, for example. enters the blue prescription system. It is a problem for the Stortinget – when a person does not have an overview of the medicinal products involved, nor does he know the priorities behind it – that the Government does not propose this type of medicinal product for the Stortinget. That's where the de minimis limit is. For example, in the case of osteoporosis medicine, the Health Directorate has now recommended changing the criteria. Today, you have to break your arm before you get a medicine that prevents further development of this disease. It would be strange if someone in this country hadn't had a heart attack before you had a heart attack. But because the change in criteria goes beyond the de minimis threshold, this has not yet been done. With regard to the way in which a further reduction in Community expenditure on medicinal products can be made, I would like to stress that the LIS, which is the joint purchasing system of regional health companies for medicinal products, is currently organised under the pharmacies of health establishments. This means that, in many cases, those who own the purchasing system will have their own common interest in not reducing expenditure but, on the contrary, keeping expenditure up. I want to ask the Council of State to comment on it, or look at that organization, which I think actually helps to keep spending up in an area where we could save considerable money. It is also important to consider whether we can further develop the switch to copy formulations in an even more effective way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e310	I want to stress that my overall goal is that the patients who need it should get the medicines they need, given that that's what can help them to get a better life, and maybe lifelong. In the same way, it is that, through the large-scale communication that was provided, and also in the subsequent work, it has been working hard to reduce the cost of drug use, for example. when it comes to using generic preparations, which I have the impression that we have been successful in Norway. So it's this with individual or pre-approved reimbursement. It is not that we in Norway are authorised later than in other European countries, but it may take a little longer before the product is included in a list of pre-approved reimbursements. In some cases, the preparation is transferred from individual to pre-approved reimbursement after a period of time. For example, in 2007 and 2008, six such preparations are transferred. It's also true that in the case of blue prescription, it's self-interest, so there's restrictions on what a patient actually pays for medicine. I'm sure it's familiar. With regard to these issues of public access, since 2002, the Swedish Medicines Agency has sent 19 cases to the Ministry of Health and Health about the authorisation of medicinal products, and we now have nine medicinal products under assessment. I understand that it is desirable that a public list of things that are not approved be made available. This information is not kept secret, but it is not included in the annual draft budget, because the medicinal products actually authorised are included. But I also want to stress that it is not that you do not approve medicines that are absolutely necessary. In the case of the de minimis limit, it has been set at 5 million. since it was introduced – that is quite correct, and that was also the way it was in connection with the notification of the medicinal product. It was promoted by the government in which the Right was involved, and there has been no change of it since. At the same time, however, this is also a way of controlling expenditure; it is not supposed to be a way of preventing the absolutely necessary use of medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e323	Each of us is concerned with good health and quality of life. In an earlier post by the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen here in the hall, she referred to her grandmother, who said the following: If you are healthy, you have many good wishes, but if you are ill, you only have one wish, and that's getting better. That is why it is right, as the Council of State has started, that medicines are an important part of our health care. Treatment with medicinal products contributes to the improvement of human health and quality of life. Today, we have major social inequalities related to good health and quality of life, between parts of the country, between urban areas — education, work, pay and not least ethnic background. This government has implemented a number of measures to improve the availability, quality, reduce the price of medicines and not least to ensure that we have the right use of medicines in our healthcare. The blue prescription, which entered into force on 3 March 2008, has contributed to simplifying and clarifying the legislation relating to the prescription of blue prescription medicinal products. The change has helped to improve the recovery requirements and to ensure more equal treatment between people. Drug prices in Norway are low compared to prices in Europe, and the tiered price cuts implemented have contributed to further reductions. We also see that pharmacies have been reduced several times, but there may be scope to further reduce them in order to obtain reasonable medicines both for individuals and for society in general. The proportions of medicinal products still have to be kept low. The Government has extended the age limit from 12 to 16 in the case of exemptions from the excess equity participations 1. This is about price, but not least about availability for the individual user. It is also with and compensates for social differences in pay and costs. Auto-free cards will be introduced from 1 July 2010. It will significantly simplify today’s manual system and will be a much more user-friendly system for the individual user. When we talk about availability, we've seen the expansion of pharmacies across the country, and not least that drugs are introduced in shops and in gas stations. This has led to better availability, but we have also seen that the use of medicinal products has not increased in relation to that availability. It's also important. The inter-pellant addresses important areas, not least in relation to how we will develop qualitatively good medicines in the future. We see that large pharmaceutical companies around the world spend a lot of resources on research and development related to new drugs. It is important that these companies have patent protection for their new medicinal products in order to ensure research and development funds. At the same time, this patent protection cannot last for so long that new medicines that can both be better and have a much lower price do not come onto the market – as is also pointed out. We see today that the use of drugs is on the rise, but that costs are falling both for individuals and for society, and that is important. It is also important to look at how we can improve the availability of good and new medicines, and not least how the right use and the right price should be. But the most important thing in the future is how we can reduce the use of medicines. We see that society is developing so that more and more people use drugs. Then we may also have to look at how we can reduce the use – not for society, but more in terms of the quality of life of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e342	The drug area is large and complex, and there are many stakeholders with different interests. We have the pharmaceutical industry, suppliers, authorities, pharmacies, various health care organizations, patient organisations and the treating doctor and his patient. At the time of the submission to the Stortinget in 2005, emphasis was placed on contributing to a longer-term and predictable policy on medicinal products. Such a policy had been called for several times, both by the pharmaceutical industry and by the Stortinget. Have we been given more proper pharmaceutical use? Have the reimbursement arrangements become simpler and more patient friendly? Has the pharmaceutical policy become more long-term and predictable? And not least, have the leaders of the Storting been followed up by the Government and the pharmaceutical authorities? I think the answers are to a large extent no. Misuse of medicinal products in hospitals has been the subject of several supervisory reports from the Health Authority in 2009. We have more residents of the home who use more drugs than before, which is an increasing challenge. In November we had an interpellation debate where, among other things, mismedication and over-consumption was a theme. There has been a need to take substantial action here, as was evident in the debate in 2005. A little has happened afterwards, and it is strikingly passive by the Government constantly to refer to the Interaction Reform, as if it were a sedentary sesame that corrects everything that is wrong in the Norwegian health system. A low-lighting theme is under-consumption. The pharmaceutical industry has identified several therapeutic areas where it may appear that insufficient medication is being used. When it comes to proper drug use, it is important that we look at both over-consumption, under-consumption and availability for patients. I cannot see that the communication on the cooperation reform is concrete enough to achieve this. The majority also asked the Government to give priority to the transfer of medicinal products from individual reimbursement to a pre-approved reimbursement. The Committee asked that the individual reimbursement scheme should be reserved as far as possible for medicinal products for small patient groups. What happened next? In fact, it seems that the opposite has happened, since several medicines have now been transferred from Section 9 to Section 10a. The de minimis threshold means that Norwegian patients are given substantial delays in accessing new medicinal products pending the determination by the Ministry of Health and Health of the intention to take the medicinal products on a blue prescription in connection with the State budget. So far, the de minimis threshold has stopped important new drugs for the treatment of, among others, drug use. colitis, cardiovascular disease, schizophrenia, manic depressive disorder, heart failure, breast cancer and diabetes. Most of these medicines have been reimbursed after several years of treatment in the bureaucracy and the political system. In the meantime, Norwegian patients have only been granted access through the individual reimbursement scheme. We know that the individual reimbursement system is administratively demanding, and it caters to the most resource-intensive patients who are able to cope with the system. The Stoltenberg II government has had three Health Councils from the Workers' Party, but none of them have been able to do what a unanimous magnification has actually asked for, namely to raise the de minimis limit. The Progress Party has said it should be raised from 5 million. to 50 million. The other parties did not quantify the increase, but said that there must be a significant increase. We have been told that there are nine drugs to be evaluated in the department, and we know that there are medicines that will be of great benefit to patient groups The Storting has said it should be put in particular. We've heard that there's a drug for coal patients where the cost is set at $7 million. So it's going to be $2 million. kr above the de minimis limit. However, the reduction of other medicines has not been taken into account here, and reductions in hospital costs have not been taken into account, which should indicate that for socio-economic and health-economic reasons it would make sense to get this medicine on a blue prescription immediately. But because the government hasn't done what the Storting has asked for, it's probably only resource-intensive patients who get this medicine funded by the public. This is not acceptable in the opinion of the Progress Party. In terms of multidose, we know that it's socio-economically profitable. In addition, they do not appreciate the benefits of improving health and well-being for patients as a result of better drug use. The progressing party is also aware that there are now electronic dosettes that actually alert if the patient has not taken his prescribed medications, which we believe should be an absolute reason to look into. Mechanical medicinal products release nurses' annual work which may be used for other tasks in the care and care services. It could be a way to meet some of the manning challenge we're facing. The size of the population wants to use multidose to a much greater extent, and also asked that additional expenditure associated with this measure should be financed. It is therefore reassuring to see that the only government has come up with is a few multidose projects. The Government does not seem to take Stortinget sufficiently seriously, and Norwegian patients are again the losing party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e370	As Bent Höie pointed out, the Right’s overall objective is that patients have good access to safe and effective treatment, including medicinal products. We are asking questions about the unilateral target formulation of the government parties in the budgetary position for the current year. It states that government parties are committed to continuing their efforts to limit expenditure to the area of medicine. I would warn against having this as an isolated goal without looking at the consequences for patients and for the social economy. Norway is behind many other European countries with regard to the introduction of new medicinal products. This also has a cost; for patients who are unnecessarily ill, and for society in terms of costs of social security and health care. In the notification of the medicinal product, the Right and Cooperation Administration proposed a number of measures to help patients gain faster and better access to medicines. For example, we went in to transfer several medicines from general to individual reimbursement, and the Stortinget joined this unanimously, but the government of Stoltenberg has done the opposite. One concrete example is that in May 2008, the Ministry of Health and Health decided that three antihistamines medicinal products should be transferred from prior authorisation to individual reimbursement, against the Medical Products Agency Council. The Medical Products Agency stated in a letter to the Ministry of Health and Health that the measure would create a lot of extra work for doctors, patients and health management. On 28 May 2009, HELFO stated that they expected between 26 000 and 31 000 applications for reimbursement on an individual basis of the medicinal products concerned. The government hoped to save 16 million. kr, but has not taken into account the costs of medical and health management procedures or of patients’ problems. On the right, the Government has asked several times to assess the impact of the measure, which the Ministry has finally agreed to. It is important that, in this context, the Government also assesses the consequences for patients, doctors and administration in a broader perspective. This is essential in order to ensure confidence in the pharmaceutical policy. Right-wing wants cost-effective pharmaceutical management, but we must not save ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e379	The medicinal product is an important input into the health service and covers a wide range of subjects. In St.meld. No 18 for 2004–2005, The right course towards better drug use, a wide range of measures have been presented to achieve their overarching objectives in the field of drug policy. They oversee the objectives for the first time that medicinal products should be used properly, both medically and financially, and for patients to have safe access to effective medicinal products irrespective of their ability to pay, and, thirdly, that medicinal products should have the lowest possible price. As the Centre Party sees it, it is superior to the objectives of pharmaceutical policy well. Innovation, research and the possibility of using new medicinal products are becoming increasingly clear, and follow-up and instrumentation must, of course, be kept under constant review. But I would like to use the ability to focus on a part of the medical policy that is often not mentioned, and that was also not given much attention in St.meld. No 18, by the way, they're drug-free. The use and translation of these are also part of the health policy. I would like to refer to the Norwegian Medical Association Journal, No. 15 2009, where a study from six youth schools was published in Drammen. The use of a prescription-free painkiller was taken separately by young people. Such medicinal products, such as Paracet and Ibuprofen, were released for non-pharmacologic use in 2003. From then on, they could be purchased at least in packaging in grocery stores, kiosks and gas stations. The study showed that half of the boys and two out of three girls in the 10th grade had used such painkillers in the last month. One in four 15-year-olds uses such means every day or every week. This is a doubling in use among guys and a 30 pst. increase for girls since this was last investigated in Norway, in 2000–2001. I got a serious eye on this issue myself, as I was a parent of a confirmation camp three years ago. Unlikely many of the youth had painkillers in the back, and the intake was astoundingly large after me. In the study mentioned in the magazine, 20 pst stated. of pupils with severe headaches or migraines, and half of them had daily or weekly used non-prescription painkillers to treat such pain. This is particularly worrying, and it is known that high consumption of common analgesics in itself may be a cause for major pain. The study also showed that 1/3 of the youth school students today have a liberal attitude to the use of prescription-free analgesics. Most youths get a prescription-free painkiller home. Therefore, many suggest that the drug use threshold in common pain conditions for young people is reduced. The consumption of such medicinal products has increased in the whole population, but increases are greatest in young people. This is something we need to take seriously, and is an important part of the debate on pharmaceutical policy. Accessibility does not have to be the whole reason for the change and increase in drug use. But when you choose to release some drugs, for example: in the retail trade, it may have contributed to an undesirable change in the behaviour of the public sector and to the undiminished nature of the drugs in question. Another example in the same street is the consumption of nasal spray, which also exploded after the drug was prescribed without prescription and came to the hall in grocery stores and in gas stations. Over-consumption can also act against its purpose and cause unintended side effects. A third example is the so-called attackable. When she was released in 2000, the goal was to reduce the number of abortions. The opposite has happened. Since 2003, the number of abortions provoked has increased, while paradoxically in 2008 160 000 withdrawal pills have been sold at a value of 25.6 million. kr here in the country. In my view, this too is an example of a worrying trend in the consumption of prescription-free medicines, especially among young people. Developments in this field must be in part contrary to the objective of the medical policy on the proper use of medicinal products. The Central Party supports the Council of State that there is no need to reconsider their overarching of the objectives of the medicinal policy, but that one should have a continuous assessment of the priority nature of the measures. The centre party believes that there is a need for new measures against the visible over-consumption of some non-prescription drugs, and in particular we believe that there is a need for new measures aimed at increasing the use of pills by young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e398	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important issue, and I would particularly like to take two of the three objectives laid down in St.meld. No 18 for 2004–2005, the availability and proper use of medicinal products. In the 2010 state budget, the Christian People’s Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, was concerned that healthcare should take new medicines and treatments more quickly both in hospitals and in other healthcare. In particular, there is a need for more rapid and effective treatment in the State Medicines Agency. The Cancer Association pointed out a few years ago that the Nordics are among those in Europe who have to wait the longest in the case of new cancer drugs. I think this is a little embarrassing in one of the richest countries in the world. Together with the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom, we were then below the European average. I heard the Council say that we are not now using new drugs later than others, and it is important to confirm whether I understood this correctly. Well, in that case, it's great. The same parties further requested, in commenting on the State budget, to raise the de minimis threshold for the authorisation of reimbursement of medicinal products – which has been discussed by several parties – and the Christian People's Party and the Right specifically asked the Government to propose a substantial increase in the de minimis ceiling in the 2011 State budget. These will also be measures to speed up the use of new medicinal products, as the interpellant also pointed out in its article. But this is a point that the Storing has previously decided. Why in the world has this not been accomplished? With regard to the proper use of drugs, one of the major problems associated with some chronic diseases is that new, rather expensive, medicines are not given to patients in time to prevent a negative development of a disease. This is due to several factors, such as the lack of competence of the permanent practitioner to identify or suspect chronic disease. It is due to long waiting times and too late referral to specialist testing, new waiting for specialist treatment and new waiting to see if the disease develops negatively. Clinical findings from x-ray or other studies are, then, a must to obtain medicinal products that can actually prevent disease development today. This applies regardless of whether there are other family members who have the same disease. This I feel is a paradox. Not all diseases can be reversed on the day the active medicinal product is finally administered to the person concerned. In my opinion, several patients with clear symptoms of a chronic disease should be tested earlier in the course of the disease, for example. new biological medicine for a period. In fact, if it works, the disease can be stopped or significantly reduced by far on the way in development. In these days, with a high focus on everyone having to get to work, it is almost unintelligible that people get sick for months and years, and then become debilitated because available treatment is not started. And Nav can't do anything about this. I believe that Nav is being unfairly criticised for not getting everyone to work. Nav cannot be loaded for ever longer queues and lack of effective treatment. I would very much like to hear the Minister of Health's views on this whole issue and whether she wants to address this. In its article, the Council of State was specifically concerned with and specifically concerned with the proper use of medicinal products. However, in my opinion, it must be more than dosage, nuclear records and research, namely that patients actually get access to drugs at the right time in the course of the disease, preferably in the form of clinical studies, of which the Council of State was involved. But this is urgent. Finally, I would just like to mention an action on the most reasonably possible medicinal products, which have been discussed by many, including the inter-pellant, and then I think reasonably both for society and for the individual pharmaceutical user. In the 2010 state budget, there were the same three parties, the Christian People's Party together with the Right and the Advance Party, which had a note where we ask the Government to ensure that nettapothek is provided with framework conditions that ensure all spectrum of regular pharmacy, for example. stimulating increased competition, which we believe will contribute to fairer prices of medicinal products. This is in addition to the measures mentioned by the interpellant, which I of course also fully agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e413	Thank you for a useful and important debate. There is a clear distinction in this room between the government parties and the opposition, where the posts of the government parties are characterised by a continuing very strong focus on limiting the use of medicinal products and reducing the cost of medicinal products, while the opposition is also more concerned with the patient’s ability to access new medicinal products. I would like to remind you that when the Stortinget last dealt with a comprehensive pharmaceutical policy, both aspects were addressed. Just reducing society’s spending on medicines would be used to give Norwegian patients faster and better access to new medicines. The Council of State stated that there were nine medicinal products pending. Among other things, there is a waiting heart medicine recommended by the Swedish Medicines Agency in 2009 for several patients with heart disease. It is on hold a diabetes medicine that the Swedish Medicines Agency recommended in February 2009. The size is not known why the Government has recommended not to follow the recommendations of the Swedish Medicines Agency. The size is only made known to the medicinal products that the Government chooses to recommend for general reimbursement. What is also a challenge is that one has not followed up the decision of the Storting to reduce the use of individual reimbursement and to go more to general reimbursement, is that it creates a disparate society in which the most resource-intensive patients, who have the most resource-intensive doctors, are faced with individual reimbursement of the most recent medicines, while those patients who do not know so well which medicines are available and who may have doctors who do not care so much about this patient, tend to go on drugs with less effect, or they do not have access to medicines that have given them a significantly better life. This is also an aspect of today's system that I think the government should have been concerned about. You should always be sure that you do not have excessive consumption of medicines, either as a community or as a single person. However, if one looks at the Norwegian use of drugs and compares us with other countries, it may not be possible to reduce the use of drugs that can be highlighted as a main challenge for Norway as long as we are at the bottom of the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e431	This has been an interesting debate. But when it is claimed by the Progress Party, and now also by the interpellant, that the government parties were only concerned with costs while the other parties were concerned with the patient's woe and well, I will strongly reject it. Drug use is a very important part of patient treatment, and we refund medicines for approx. 7-8 billion a year. It is clear that this is an essential part of patient treatment, so I don't think you should suspect anyone's motives in this context. It kind of doesn't fit very well. What we're concerned about is that we have a proper drug use, that it really leads to an improvement in patients' quality of life and health, and that it can prolong life. With regard to Gåsvatns posts, I would just like to stress that I have not mentioned the Cooperation Reform in a word. It was actually goose water that was the first to do. I have talked about a number of other things, about the aims and follow-up of the drug notification, which, after what I have seen – I did not put in the Storting at the time – there was a great deal of agreement about, and which was presented by the Bondevik government. It is right that a joint social committee asked for an increase in the de minimis threshold. But the Bondevik II government has not proposed raising the de minimis threshold. It was set to $5 million. kr that time. It is always an assessment question of whether it should be raised. It's a priority in terms of what costs and expenses we have. I think everyone agrees – at least it is heard this way out of the debate – that it is important to have control over the costs of pharmaceutical use. The fact that the de minimis threshold is set does not mean that no one can use a medicine or receive reimbursement. What is important, and which many have been involved, is whether the individual treatment is fair. It's an important point that I'm concerned about and really want to go into, to check that you, for example. equal treatment in all health regions. It's a very important thing. It is also important to capture those who may fall between two chairs, between pre-approved medicinal products and individual reimbursement. With regard to the use of multidose, the debate we had before Christmas on the proper use of drugs was very important. I fully agree that multidose is an important tool in achieving a better drug use. Therefore, we also refund home services, but of course also encourage hospitals and others to have a more accurate use of medicines in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e444	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e460	There has been some debate on research policy, not least in the context of the deliberation of the Research Communication Climate for Research and the State Budget for 2010. Much of that debate has been about economics, how much money is being invested, and in what way. The debate here today is really about a more fundamental issue, namely how much it is right to steer research through objectives and established programmes. But it is also about economics, of course. Much of the criticism of the government budget and the government's policy from the university and higher education sectors was that the action space for universities and colleges was narrowed down as a result of very much of the funds being tied up in advance. In this way, today's debate is a little bit about the same, because there is no doubt that research funding in Norway is increasingly being tied up through established programmes, earmarked funds and set targets. So it's actually going to be a little philosophical question: where do the best ideas come from? Are they coming as a result of political plans and objectives, or are they coming as a result of skilled researchers who are given the opportunity to pursue their own sometimes controversial and unorthodox ideas without anyone predicting the results in advance? That's what we can call curiosity-driven research. Curiosity-driven research has led to many surprising results, including results that have seemed quite useless from time to time, but have subsequently proved to contain revolutionary new knowledge that would be of great importance. There have been major scientific breakthroughs as a result of basic research, which at first could seem completely meaningless. Research is searching the unknown terrain. It's not that easy, as most of us will understand, to create a map of an unknown terrain in advance. Similarly, it is not easy to make detailed and comprehensive research plans in advance. Knowing what research is relevant to solving major challenges facing society today is extremely difficult. It's easy to see it in retrospect, but almost impossible to predict in advance. In many cases, then, it has been many years before it became clear that a given research work gave results of great importance. It's almost a paradox, but Albert Einstein's research work even today contributes to new results and breakthroughs, and is a good example of this. A more prosaic example, maybe, are the so-called yellow notes, which probably a lot of us use here on the Storting. New glue forms were researched and developed in 3M's laboratories many years ago. Then one was able to develop a glue that was too weak to have any particular effect, and that also did not dry, and was considered a completely unsuccessful result. Only later did it become clear that this strange glue provided the basis for a completely new and revolutionary product with an enormous commercial potential, the so-called Post-it notes. This with free research versus politically controlled research also has another side. This applies to recruitment to the research team. Recruitment to the research profession is a major challenge. Research institutions, universities, colleges, institutes and others cannot offer the same economic conditions as the best minds in business. What the field of research can offer are exciting opportunities and the freedom to apply in the unknown. This seems challenging on some of the very best talents. But the more managed from above, the more defined in advance, the more urgent the framework it is for this curiosity-driven research, the less attractive it becomes to dedicate to this profession for the best and most ambitious talents. It's a challenge that I'm absolutely sure is also of concern to the Council of State. So I look forward to a debate related to the extent to which it is right to steer the field of research through policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e477	When the representative of the Warloes party, with the government power of the Bondevik II Government, designed the research policy in its 2005 Research Communication, the then government decided to prioritise research in ICT, new materials, nanotechnologies and biotechnology, energy and environment, sea, food and health. How Warloe and Right can see these priorities as less governing than the red-green government's goal of Norwegian research policy helping to meet global challenges to a knowledge-based business across the country is a mystery to me. I would therefore like to challenge briefly the representative of Warloe's premise that the management of Norwegian research is stronger now than before. The government has set out five strategic and four horizontal research policy objectives, without stipulating detailed governance or imposing on researchers neither in the business, institutes or the university and higher education sectors the disciplines or disciplines within which they are to be researched in order to achieve the objectives. We need to set objectives for research policy, and I believe that the target picture we have today is designed in such a way that it gives us something to reach for, while the objectives are wide enough to allow for both basic research and research-initiated projects. If the representative of Warloe takes a look at Stortinget's report last June, he will see that a unanimous increase joined the research report. Then he will probably also remember that at that time, the Right also had no comments on the new target picture, and that a joint church and education committee felt that there was a need for clear research policy objectives in priority areas. The government has had high ambitions for research, and we have followed up with steady and strong growth in research appropriations in our years of government. Public expenditure on research is approaching the target of 1 pst. GDP. Public funding for research goes to the sector through several channels, and in 2009 no more than one third was given to the Norwegian Research Council. Thus, Norwegian research is not financed mainly through the activities of the Research Council, which may seem to suggest. Overall, the Government wants less detailed management of inputs, activities and processes and more attention to research policy results. We demand results, but the degree of freedom of our universities and colleges is great. The question is whether the degree of freedom is exploited as much as we can expect. I'm not sure. Our knowledge base for assessing this issue is not optimal. That is why I have appointed two working groups to help us with this assessment. The first is the so-called action room committee for the university and higher education sectors, chaired by Tekna's President, Marianne Harg. The Committee shall deliver its report on 15 February. In particular, the Group shall look at the organisation and management of internally and externally funded activity, at the governance mechanisms of the sector and at the flows of money – how growth in the sector has broken down into different types of institutions and activities in recent years. It will also look at research conditions and careers, including: in view of the recruitment situation in the future, and last but not least, the sample will look at the role of the students: the room for action of the institutions in the light of the students' choices and expected student growth in the future. Me and the Government are serious about the new research policy objectives. They have to be reached. This is why we have also appointed a public expert committee consisting of some of Norway's leading professionals, to discuss the link between objectives, resources and results of publicly funded research. The team shall advise on the need for changes in public research funding that could provide higher research quality and better use of resources. The reports of these samples will give us the opportunity to discuss the framework and status of Norwegian research from a broader and better knowledge base. I look forward to these discussions with excitement and joy. Among the research policy priorities of the Bondevik government from 2005, we also find that basic research should be a key priority. This priority is not reflected in the government's new target for Norwegian research policy in the same form. Instead, we have formulated the cross-cutting objective of high quality in research, and let me explain why. When the European Research Council, the ERC, clarifies its objective of stimulating European top-level research through its prestigious, free means, it states that such research is fundamentally risky and the characteristic of being without professional boundaries. This Research Council therefore wants to move away from what they consider to be old-fashioned and out-of-date distinctions between basic and applied research, between research and technology and between traditional trade boundaries. The question of why the European Research Council wants to avoid what the Agency calls the out-of-date contrast between basic research and applied research is interesting and relevant to the inter-pellant’s issues. Not least, it is interesting why they want to avoid the so-called linear model of the relationship between research and society implicit in this contrast. The linear model can be summarised as follows: Basic research gives rise to applied research, which gives rise to development, application and ultimately societal benefits. So the benefits of society are thought to be downstream of a reservoir of knowledge generated by investments in basic research. For researchers, the chain is linked to a value hierarchy, which says that basic research is better than applied research, which in turn is better than development, application and benefit. One answer is that, over the past 40 years, science theorists have shown that there is no such distinction between research, politics and society as this model postulates. Most importantly, science and technology studies over the same 40 years, with heavier and heavier empirical coatings, have shown that this model does not match. Fruitable and innovative issues are generated on the bedside of the patient as well as in basic medical research laboratories. Breaking innovations are likely to follow as often as user-initiated research as university priorities. Thus, the ERC's downturn in the distinction between basic research and applied research shows that it is less important where the problem comes from and whether the intention behind the research is applied or not than that research is of high quality. The same recognition has been expressed by the Government through the new target image of Norwegian research policy. As a result of what I have learned in the last two years, I find it increasingly clear that the contrast between research that responds to challenges and pure basic research is designed and often can be a negative contrast. Historically, really heavy research efforts have drawn their rationale into societal goals of achieving the moon, eradicating tuberculosis or defending the nation against Nazism or communism. Clear societal goals have led to considerable efforts on non-themed, research-initiated research. In turn, these investments have often provided highly commercial and usable products. A national example is Kristen Nygaard and Ole-Johan Dahl's development of the programming language Simula. The language proved to play a key role in the development of computer programs as we know them today, but was initially developed to solve practical challenges of the nuclear reactor at Kjeller. This illustrates the close link between the strategic objectives of the Research Communication and the cross-cutting objectives. The objectives of being equipped to meet global challenges and national challenges in the field of health and welfare and of having a knowledge-based and sustainable business cannot be achieved without a well-functioning research system, high-quality research, efficient use of research results and resources and internationalisation of Norwegian research. This is where we find the foundation that makes the strategic efforts possible. In other words, the cross-cutting objectives and the horizontal strategic objectives do not constitute a contradiction; they are conditional on each other. The development of Norwegian society will serve to bring about a dynamic where strategic efforts trigger more free, fundamental research, and where long-term fundamental research gives rise to innovation and innovation. Thus, the government’s new goal is to include the entire portfolio of policy tools – from large direct appropriations to universities, colleges and institutes, to appropriations for the Research Council and to research cooperation in Europe. I must also remind you that we are funding a number of different instruments in the Research Council in addition to the research programmes on which the representative, Mr Warloe, puts the spotlight on his question. In 2007, the Government extended the system of Centres for Excellent Research from 13 to 21. The SFFs conduct basic top-level research within a wide range of themes, and the selection criterion was only quality. The Government has also established a long-term funding mechanism for scientific equipment, which, together with the National Research Infrastructure Strategy of the Research Council, constitutes an important mechanism for strengthening the research capacity of Norwegian research communities. So when I talk about the importance of the government's heavy, long-term research effort, there's a stake along all these axes to achieve the research policy objectives that we're talking about. Of course, I and the rest of the Government agree with the representative that a certain proportion of basic research should be research-initiated, but I disagree with the fact that the points the representative raises in his question show that Norwegian research is becoming increasingly politically oriented. Research projects funded by the Research Council are financed on the basis of rates intended to cover the costs of the project. Thus, it is not initially such that the framework appropriations of universities and higher education institutions are tied up by the choice of researchers to participate in programme-funded projects. It is also part of the funding system that the university and higher education sectors should use a share of their framework appropriations for research activities. At the same time, we in the Government are concerned with the balance between the expectations of activity and the research framework conditions, and the report of the Action Space Committee will be an important input into the assessment of this situation in the future. I look forward to the debate on interpellant questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e513	I thank the Council of State for her contributions. I'm probably not as sure as the Council of State of what is the correct view of free-versus-directed research. I have registered that others have also debated the issue with the Council of State. Press in the Norwegian Academy of Sciences has discussed this with the Council of State in the Evening Post for the first week of January. And the Council of State has dared to call itself the Preses of the Academy of Sciences’ view of research for ‘a obsolete view of research’, while the Government’s view is called a much more ‘modern view’. I record that not everyone in the field of research – for whom I have great respect – shares the very secure views of the Council of State on these issues. But it is clear that we are politicians, and politicians should be able to set goals and have opinions on future developments, at least overall. Research policy objectives are not wrong, and the Stortinget adopted a number of research policy objectives in the communication last year. The question is what dosage is chosen and to what extent almost all public funds for research are to be tied up and earmarked. If there's too much of this, it's probably going to be wrong. There has to be a mix and a balance in this. I heard that the Council of State also mentioned that the university and higher education sectors have a great deal of freedom. That's not what we hear from the sector itself. Many of the complaints are that you may have freedom on paper, but in reality, the funds are very much tied up. And there's this space of action for the free use of free money that's some of the key here. In fact, it is not just in the Research Communication that research policy objectives have been set. The government itself presented Soria Moria II, where there was a list of further objectives for the research to be considered. Then we have new ambitions, new denominations – almost all new money in the 2010 budget is earmarked. And then there are the EU programmes, which also commit large sums of money within the Norwegian research budget. It is clear that all this in total makes it possible to ask that question as to whether there are in particular many free resources left for free research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e526	Of course, I have great respect for Professor Nils Christian Stenseth, President of the Academy of Sciences, to which it refers. The debate I have had with him is about what I tried to convey in my post, namely how wise and constructive it is to maintain a very clear distinction between what we can call basic research, and all other forms of research in some form of application. I gave some examples that this is essentially quite dependent on each other. So I choose to see the possibilities of finding important results from the research as well as as as much by focusing on more applied research as on basic research. But, of course, dosage is important, and it has been an important part of the debates all along. I'm trying to break down this separation a little bit. It's not because I want to mistrust more basic research, because it's important – I think we agree on that. What you obviously see in a slightly different way is the space of action you have to do with what the interpellant calls the research-driven, or researcher-initiated, research. There has always been an exciting balance between what is the expressed needs of society and what is intended to cover – or increase – the knowledge base of those needs, and the research that, perhaps over many, many years, can produce results that are eye-catching and good for society. I would like to mention the climate agreement as an example, where Warloe's party and the government parties concluded an agreement during the previous period, which also contained important research into the climate. I think everyone agrees that this is research that society needs, regardless of political governance or not. It was a political decision on the basis of which to invest in climate research, and I think this is a general uprising, regardless of the political basis. Therefore, the debate on freedom will depend on the challenges facing society and how to define them, and will depend on where you are in the landscape, whether you are a researcher or you should be involved in facilitating the framework conditions for research. I do not agree that the research funds are marked by ear-marking, in the sense that you have a system of large programmes, you have systems with, for example. funding for free project support through the Research Council, and opportunities are available in the institutions — universities and higher education — to make priorities between the different research efforts. The emergence we've had of Centers for Excellent Research clearly shows that we're giving room to basic research even if you're in a university and higher education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e537	The debate that the Right's representative has raised about free versus controlled research is a fundamentally important debate, and that is how it is when the Stortinge gets the opportunity to discuss this. But the Progress Party is a little bit in doubt if the Right Representative at this crossroads mixes some lobster and canari. The point of view of the Progress Party is that national authorities must be able to draw up clear strategies and targets for the knowledge nation of Norway in the event of collapse and government. Not including universities and colleges — the spearheads of knowledge management — in such national strategies will, in our view, be totally unnatural. Overall coordination of national research efforts could be used both to coordinate research efforts, as a means of maximising resource allocation and to measure the results of publicly funded research. In this context, the Norwegian Research Council is an important and necessary actor, although it is certain that it will not be necessary for that very long to assess the organisation of the Council. The Progress Party therefore believes that defined national objectives and strategies for research are good and a necessary target management tool for growth and government. This does not mean that the Progress Party will have a political detailed management of national programmes that swallow a predominantly part of the research funds, as we see trends now. We believe that there may be reason to consider whether all the Research Council's programmes do not absorb too much of the funds available to the Council. As far as basic appropriations for universities and higher education are concerned, it was discussed in depth in the budget debate. In this way there is nothing new under the sun. All the hearing bodies at that time indicated that it is too low and that it gives too little predictability of its operation. The low basic appropriations will also mean tougher priorities between education and research, to the extent that they are completely independent of the involvement of the institutions in international and national programmes. As we also had in the budget debate, this is a paradox when the number of students has increased and according to the SSB forecasts will increase dramatically in the years ahead. The Progress Party will also take this opportunity to insist that Norwegian universities and colleges should be able to do a proper job of managing our national knowledge properly, the funding of universities and colleges must have a realistic and adequate framework for both basic and result-based appropriations. Therefore, the total allocation has to be adjusted. Then I would like to refer to the Sola Conference on Monday this week, when the Minister of Research said in his speech that she, among other things, would work to break down barriers in basic research and applied research and establish strategic advice between universities, colleges and businesses. Parts of this have also been repeated today. This is a national strategy that the Progress Party is behind – but perhaps not the Right will?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e553	It is an important and continuous debate that the representative of Warloe here invites in a good way. However, I believe, and it also showed the Council of State in its response, that it is unfortunate and a little daunting to operate with the concept pair ‘free’ versus ‘guided’ research, as it says in the interpellation text. All the research has gone down. The important discussion is the ‘journey’, which shall govern and the ‘axle’ it shall be directed in order to take it on the inland dialect. I believe that both the representative of Warloe and the Council of State agree. I also think it's important to reflect on the second last sentence, to keep looking a little bit closer at the interpolation text: ‘University and higher education are also given less opportunities to prioritise basic appropriations for basic research.’ If you're going to read the text very literally, it's kind of taken for granted that so-called free research or research-initiated research gives us more basic research. It definitely doesn't have to be like that, in my opinion. I'm going to think that much of what scientists at the educational institutions do in their research time is much applied research, a lot of R & D in the R & D concept, is a lot of dissemination. I mean this is good, it's very good with just that. So greater freedom for the researcher doesn't necessarily have to give us more basic research, as the text suggests. So a little bit to control. Honor is that we have a government that will be knowledge-based, that will initiate research, and that will economically enable research, such as: The representative of the Progress Party was very much emphasised in its statement. At the same time, to a greater extent than at present possibly, it is necessary to have a continuous critical searchlight on market governance, or market pressure — including the public role that orders — that many researchers and research institutions experience today, as the Council of State also underlines in its contribution. It is undoubtedly positive and important to note that researchers and research activities are in demand to a greater extent than ever, that some people ask for and order and actually pay for research. At the same time, of course, it is not positive if these orders are not fully financed. It will be exciting to see, among other things. what the Action Room Committee says about this. It weakens the basic activity, as the interpellant underlines, or what it might be of the kind of basic research, applied research or dissemination that this activity would then lead to. In some ways, it weakens the scientific position, i.e. the professional freedom to initiate R & D itself, and – not least – the methodically to implement it in a professionally free way. In my opinion, an equally serious dilemma or problem with too much market or demand-driven research is – and it has not been mentioned in the debate so far – that there are many interests, many groupings, many issues out there that have a great need for more R & D but that lack the ability to pay for such research. What they can hope for is first and foremost whether they are seen by us politicians and/or research bodies, or whether they are seen by researchers and research institutions and thus caught up and given attention to them. It is easy to find examples of topics that are being given too little attention today both on our part — to put it that way — and on the part of researchers. This applies, for example: all prevention activities, all poverty and distribution activities, peacemaking and conflict resolution, possibly the entire quality of life and social quality debate, etc. Here, each representative might have different examples and maybe slightly different views from batch to batch. But this is where the public – read: political governance – can and should come in, and I believe the government does in a exemplary way, to give such themes and such groupings an attention that they have not otherwise received and have not been historically given. Climate research is just an excellent example in this way: the government discovers that there is something out there that it should have been more researched, and then more research is being done on it. In addition, it is important — and this is going to send a signal also to researchers — that researchers are ‘noisy driven’, it was so beautifully formulated by the interpellant. But I think it's important that researchers and research institutions see that they would be served – perhaps to a somewhat greater extent than they have done historically – to be in dialogue with the society of which they are part, not to be governed by that society, but to be inspired by that society and perhaps to be helped to develop research design and research method in a better way than they would have done alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e571	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising such an important topic on the floor of the United Kingdom. It's a little sad that there's no more of them. Academic freedom and the freedom of the researcher are a very important driving force in society. It is guided not only by measurement and target management, but also by the degree of freedom that individual research institutions get through what are the general pots – the so-called basic funding of our institutions. As larger and larger parts are increasingly controlled, and self-financing is also required in order to be allowed to participate, that freedom is constantly being restricted. When I sit and read e.g. The comments made by the previous committee in connection with the research communication are some of the common comments which were a beautiful reading on the freedom of research but which were not really fully included in either the articles of the Progress Party or the SV here. I think it's important not to have an excessive belief that, through focus and governance, you're going to be able to get the research to be useful to society. For research, an inherent value has its own seas. It's through the free basic research we've often seen that we get the most innovative, the most innovative and also the most useful ideas for society. Sometimes you also create knowledge and grip that you don't know exactly what to use for, but when you connect the scientists' knowledge and the ability to break barriers, you see -- like someone here in the day said you could stop the speed of light, but it's not safe we know exactly what to use it for today. I think that the connection between the scientist who is able to stop the light, who is able to do that grip, and the innovative forces that understand what you can use it to develop things that actually make our society better, is the combination that contributes to creating a better society. That's why research, also research that can seem completely useless there and then, gets its value. If you think about the great milestones in world research historically, you can wonder if they would fit into our system. You can wonder if the major researchers we are working on today would have fit into the Research Council's application base. We can wonder if they would fit into our system. I think we should always think that we should not only have streamlined research, the targeted research, the one that is linked to business development directly, but that we should also be open to the research that is linked to the formation of society – the formation that is about us stretching towards more knowledge, also the knowledge that we didn't know we would have. Too often it's the knowledge that really helps bring us forward. The basic idea of research is to experiment. It makes no sense to let scientists know that they want to experiment to find good solutions, but they must never be wrong. It's clear that any experiment can open up to be wrong, any theory can turn out to be wrong to face reality. You're always going to have that margin of error, because it's the one that's going to bring us forward. Research must be able to take time – it must take time to develop the new things that will help bring us forward. The interpellant looked so good on how curiosity and knowledge should appear, but we need to have a society where we balance the desire for education, the economy and society in a sacred triangle that makes it possible for us to develop the new ideas. You don't necessarily do that by telling people what to figure out, but by giving them great freedom to let curiosity be the driving force, that experiments can really go in the sink, but also open up that we might get knowledge we didn't know we wanted. Because that's the knowledge that really helps bring society forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e586	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to address this topic of debate here in the Grand Chamber, and then I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate, including the Council of State, of course. It may be a little surprising that the largest government party has not been represented in this debate, because it is of course important to also know what you think in the Labour Party about fundamental issues. The party trap of the Council of State, the representative Hagen, took part in the debate and, as far as I took note, that all the research has been directed, the question is who should govern it and how. It was said in another dialect, but I think it's going to be my translation. There I have to say that if you think that all the research in any case has crashed, I'm actually completely disagreed. Like previous speakers, I believe that the field of research has been historically characterised by the fact that some researchers and some research environments, and they may also have been quite small and quite isolated, have gone their own way, followed their own ideas and pursued research that in some cases – not all of them – has proved to result in major scientific breakthroughs and fundamental new knowledge and often what is called paradigm shifts in the professional language. Maybe you'll see that first and foremost, and in many cases it's only after a long time. We are then faced with a problem of government belief in the objectives and the challenges to be addressed by research. We only know what we can understand as our challenges today. We don't know what kind of long-term new knowledge building it takes to meet the next generation challenges, which aren't necessarily the same as those we're facing today. We think, for example, Of course, the climate challenge is the greatest challenge mankind has faced and will face for a long, long time in the future. But we cannot know how complex the future is, and what kind of solutions may be surprising to give results for future generations and for the future. So it's a fundamental weakness, I think, by this limitless belief that we should always be able to formulate the right orders for the research field.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e595	The reason why it is important for any government at regular intervals to submit a communication on research to the Stortinget is precisely what the interpellant now says. I totally agree with him. We can't be so sure of what will be the most important challenges, that we can adopt this once and for all and then leave it alone. We need to renew that thinking, and we need to adjust our research goals to the social development we see around us. But having a challenge to meet knowledge needs in society and to materialize them, or bring them down to research policy objectives, which can then be followed up in budgets and programmes, does not of course mean that there must always be room for what the interpellant calls the curiosity-driven research — the research that may not seem so useful in the first place. I mentioned a few examples. One of them was a program developed to solve practical challenges of the nuclear reactor at Kjeller, which led to the development of the programming language Simula. It's got a completely different consequence. Here in the country, this research happened, and it wasn't meant to be. We have a lot of examples of this, and I want to be the first to applaud that this happens, and try to facilitate that we can have it -- let's say -- the liberality of thinking about research. I fully agree with the representative Aksel Hagen when he stresses that asking for free research is not the same as asking for more basic research. I think the division between different types of research on a scale from basic research to applied research and trying to see the whole of it is a more fertile context than all the time asking who is initiating the research – whether it should be the researchers themselves, or whether there should be others, for example. political authorities. The size has adhered to the research policy objectives presented by the Government, and I am very happy to have a good starting point and from my remit to stimulate research at all ends of this scale from basic research to applied research. Of course, as the State Council for Research and Higher Education, I will continue to work to strengthen the open national competitive areas of the Research Council, to strengthen research aimed at the major societal challenges, and to contribute to good framework conditions for the entire research sector and thus also to provide room for answers to the questions that have not yet been asked, as Mrs Skei Grande put it. I thank you for the debate and take the views with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e612	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e618	The size then goes to voting in case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e638	In Case No: 2 and No No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-14.ana.ud275e660	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
