ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e53	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Anders B. Werp, Frank Bakke Jensen, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten and Line Henriette Hämdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 16 February onwards and until further notice from the Group of the European People's Party on sick leave for the representative Tor Bremer from 16 February onwards and until further notice from the representatives Åse Michaelsen and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on leave for days 17 and 18 February – both to attend the OSCE Winter Meeting in Vienna On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Western Agder province: Tor Sigbjørn For Northern Ireland: Kari Storstrand For Telemark County: Lene Vågslid For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e121	Kari Storstrand and Sonja Edvardsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e129	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e132	On behalf of the big business representatives Solvency Horne, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to propose the inclusion of newspapers distributed electronically, in the VAT exemption applicable to newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e137	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e151	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e160	This is about what is called academic freedom. Academic freedom is a great thing; it certainly agrees with the whole Stortinget. Academic freedom in the research sector can in many ways be equated with freedom of expression in society. Academic freedom is defined in a NOU from 2006 to include the freedom to ask questions, the freedom to determine which material and methods will be used to find answers, and the freedom to make public hypotheses, results and reasoning. There has been broad consensus in the Committee that the practice of academic freedom for researchers contributes to a better and more informed societal debate and criticism, and thus also to societal development. The representatives of Trine Skei Grande and Borghild Tenden have, in their representative publishing house, addressed the question of how academic freedom can be further clarified and reinforced for the part of the research field that falls outside and is not covered by the Law on Higher Education. The Storting has provided researchers employed by universities and colleges with a specific statutory protection of their academic freedom under the Law on Higher Education. The question is then: can a similar thing be done for other researchers who are not covered by this law, i.e. researchers, such as: are employed by different research institutions and institutes, etc. These researchers, these institutions outside the law, account for approx. 70 pst. of the total Norwegian research effort. It is therefore a significant sector which today does not have a specific legal protection for its academic freedom. The representative proposal raises an important principle issue and focuses on an important principle issue of academic freedom. However, the proposal for a representative also has its concrete origin in – or is the cause of – a concrete episode in which a high-ranking member of the Ministry of Agriculture did what we must be able to perceive as an attempt to squander a researcher at the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, who, in a chronicle of the Class struggle last September, had expressed himself critically about the government's agricultural policy. However, the majority of the Committee has seen that this individual case, which is a very unfortunate infringement, cannot be used to raise doubts as to whether academic freedom is threatened on a general basis. The majority of the Committee is also concerned that legal regulation of the sector currently outside the scope of the Law on Higher Education will be an unfortunate and undesirable instrument. It will be necessary to regulate this sector in order to regulate the academic freedom of the sector in line with the higher education sector and the law on universities and higher education. However, an experiment, as described against this researcher at the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, is considered to be an over-tramp. However, on the part of the Committee, we have wanted to refer to the Stortinget that Stortinget asks the Government to make proposals which adequately clarify the academic freedom of researchers from academic institutions which are not covered by the University and Higher Education Act. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State itself stated that there are ways of clarifying academic freedom. This may be done by clarifying requirements for academic freedom in letters to the institutions and institutions receiving funding from the State. It can probably also be made clear in other ways, but this therefore wants an overall committee to have the Government come back to the Stortinge with proposals for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e183	Good management never threatens academic freedom – bad management can threaten it. This debate is really about this – not about the understanding of academic freedom, which all parties agree on, and which is the right of researchers in the institute sector. What the debate is about is the framework conditions for academic freedom. All those who research, no matter what kind of institution they work in, depend on working conditions that give the expression ‘academic freedom’ meaningful content. Academic freedom is about freedom to research and to do so within the research's own, high academic requirements for hypotheses, procedures and dissemination. But academic freedom is not freedom from the outside world and institutions' requirements for competence, work and quality. This document 8 deals primarily with the institutional sector. This is an important part of the overall research effort in Norway. Much of this research is publicly funded in full or in part. These are the Community funds, and therefore it is reasonable that there should be some leadership for all actors receiving such funding. I notice that the Committee's minority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that target management and political leadership threaten academic freedom. We are clearly in disagreement here. Our majority believes that target management and political leadership is also about leadership. Good management is essential, including at research institutions, for researchers to have the space for action to focus on research. Good management ensures good infrastructure and conditions. Good management contributes to stable frameworks and action spaces. Good management creates a systematic drive for quality and freedom in research. In fact, I want to go so far as to say that good management is at least as important as good economics for research and academic freedom. Researchers also need leadership and direction. Of course, this does not control the science or the researcher’s procedure, nor does it control the problem they choose to work on. The researcher shall also be free to make public hypotheses, results and reasoning as required by academic freedom. You control the conditions under which they work, just to make sure the conditions are good. Ambitious targets are set for work, precisely to ensure progress and progress. Lack of target management and political leadership is a lack of leadership, which in turn may lead to a lack of results. It's a misunderstanding to believe that less management gives more freedom. On the contrary, it can give less freedom – both because poorer framework conditions can give more distractions, so that the researcher does not have the freedom to focus on research, and because it can give more room for less visible leadership, which poor working culture can lead to. The less visible leadership may lead to a choice of what is safe from what is challenging current perceptions, or to a refusal to take professional risks because the height of the fall is then so high. In these contexts, management is concerned with ensuring working conditions that allow for countercurrent walking. I am amazed that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that cooperation between different actors in Norway and internationally threatens academic freedom. Senior academic institutions in other countries prioritise researchers from outside. It is a strategy that Norwegian research institutions also adopt. They see that such cooperation can promote good quality in research, by challenging and cooperating with different knowledge environments. The major international challenges facing the world – whether food crisis, climate crisis or energy crisis – are best addressed when several knowledge environments work together. Cooperation may strengthen the high technical requirements of academic freedom. In view of that, it becomes a paradox that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left add to a debate in the Grand Chamber about whether internationalisation is really a threat to academic freedom. The fact that this minority is concerned about the importance of research into the mission in the institute sector for academic freedom is a more understandable position. But academic freedom in the field of mission research is among other things. ensuring the ethical guidelines for civil servants, so that mission research does not put the academic freedom under pressure. Ensuring academic freedom is continuous work, and I look forward to the Government coming back to us with a clarification of academic freedom also in the institute sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e221	The fact that there is so much consensus in the committee on this point illustrates that it was very important and right that the Left chose to raise this issue to debate in the Grand Duchy. It does so far that, on the other hand, I do not necessarily need to withdraw this debate. But it is clear that the institute sector is an important part of Norwegian research. In particular, as far as applied research and development is concerned, the institute sector is a significant part of the research we are doing today. But it is that a significant part of the research being carried out by the institutes is directly or indirectly funded by the state budget — one too large, but there is another debate. It is important that the Storting, which actually grants these funds, engages in the matter. Engagement illustrates this case at the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, which was the direct reason why the case was raised in Stortinget. This – I allowed myself to use the word – the ‘disgusting’ case, which I think must be allowed to say, illustrates that the debate is terribly important. The fact that an official, a civil servant, had done this to a university in Norway, against a full-time, state-owned researcher, had been completely indisputable and, in my poor opinion, also illegal. Then it becomes a paradox that when public funds are used to purchase research in the institute sector, the same conditions must underpin the fact that both the opposition on the Stortinget, the majority on the Stortinget, the media and not least, of course, other researchers have access to the material produced — as is the case at universities, and as the government is also making an important premise for the financing of universities in the future, namely publication and transparency of what is going on. Then it is that this time the Progress Party does not fully agree with the other non-socialist parties in the Storting. Academic freedom and the absence of target management have nothing to do with each other. Academic freedom is about the right to use their material in the way you want, in cooperation with other research communities around Norway. It's not about the right to research what you want. It must be such that a strategic development of Norwegian research is to be allowed to have an opinion about corruption and government. So I guess I'll often disagree with the sitting government in their priorities. But if we are to build internationally competitive research environments, someone has to be able to control this strategically from a higher level. So I don't fully understand that the merger of a minority today has made of the debate on target management, strategic direction of Norwegian research, and the principle of academic freedom. That there is a need for increased basic appropriations for all the institutes, we all agree, at least the opposition, and I guess half of the position agrees with that, too. But it's not something we're going to interfere with in a debate on target management of academic freedom. I believe that in such a debate – and the Progress Party tried to promise in the budget debate – we should also have discussed what was discussed in the 1970s and 1980s, namely whether to separate research and management. Much of the state-funded research takes place in research and management institutes, and it is clear that there is reason to ask questions about whether the research carried out is free and independent and in line with the principles of academic freedom. That debate I do not want to promise now, the one we promised in the budget, and it will be promised by the Progress Party on a later occasion. Then, too, the non-state-owned institutions have a significant difference in their basic funding. It's also a problem. But – as I said – this is not about the absence of target management. It is about strengthening basic funding for Norwegian institutes, which will, of course, lead to increased academic freedom. The absence of target management does not contribute to the strengthening of academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e240	The setting here today is almost unanimous, as Henning Warloe initially said. I guess it's just the Left that stands out in its strong belief in an extra dose of new and enhanced regulation. The fact that the Committee shares its reflection on governance, leadership, mission research, etc., and the fact that cooperation is increasingly nationally and internationally, I do not think we should go too far. There is nothing wrong, on the contrary, to claim that there are challenges here, but in our majority comment we say more offensively that a precisely one must actively focus on whether infrastructure, framework conditions and governance allow working methods and research perspectives in a professionally decent way. This setting is good. The debates so far are good. Then it's easy to join all of them. Generally speaking, for the whole field of education and research as a whole, academic freedom at institution level is hardly controversial. This applies both to the freedom of teaching, if we are to call it that – that is to say, that one cannot be required to stand for a particular or, we should call it, a regime-friendly scientific view of teaching, and that is freedom of research. However, it is easy to see that funding not least determines how real this will be on the research page. I think the academic freedom at the individual level is probably something more controversial than what we might admit in the debate. This debate cannot be reduced to a kind of ‘bourgeois ideology’ of independence, because it is legitimate – and it is important to stress, I think – by authorities on behalf of the community and others who finance, to demand what it is to be researched. But it's a matter of balance here, because if it's too far in externally controlled research, the academy will lose its distinctive character and in and of its very nature some of its reasons. The right to self-defined research is very important and crucial for the quality of research to stay up-to-date. Some have to defend the utility of the seemingly useless, as many have said before me, because we do not know in advance what will be important knowledge in the long run. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge, in his reply of 30 November last year to the Committee, emphasised that she would further stress this point in her basic funding allocations to the institute sector. Had more such institutions become decently funded on a basic basis in the future. So to the academic freedom of the institutes to participate in the social debate. There I think it might be a little bit problematic. If we get the same hierarchical governance systems that demand loyalty and obedience in the academy as we see in some other organizations, we lose a very important part of democracy. Free, independent people in academia are a very important part of our democracy and a living civil society. Then we see in the debate that someone from the older garden of social scientists at regular intervals claims that today's young and middle-aged researchers are too little involved in public policy change. They would like to claim that everything was so much better when they sailed young – and maybe it was. Perhaps it was the case that in the 1970s there was a clear expectation that within the research family a person would appear and be heard out in the public space. Maybe we now have an opposite professional culture. Now the researchers are going to publish in decent, scientific journal, but otherwise remain silent and inactive. Well, I don't know. It's always hard to read your own time. Perhaps this is a debate of the kind of Ole Paus characterizing 'Alt Var Mye Beder Under War'. Finally, as far as time goes, I want to quote one of the recordings I got when I went out in the institute sector in advance and asked researchers who worked there to make some recordings and heartaches to me: «Academic freedom» has rarely been threatened in a narrow sense and in the sense of the Committee. Get sponsors hold the pens that formulate the reports. However, the possibility of choice of methods and reporting modalities has gradually been strongly targeted within the ‘demand-offering’ market. It was known that it would be embarrassing to submit ‘offers’ to a research mission with a framework of between 3 months and a year. There was a distortion of earnings, consulting activities and the simple use of quantitative, unreflected method, which usually results in simple and sometimes media-replicative reports. In relation to research and knowledge development, we experienced what I would call a marked target shift. The most important thing is not curiosity, content, substance and attempts at critical look and exceedance, but that you earn enough by what you do is available for sale in a market.» He moved to the higher education and university sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e266	Academic freedom is fundamental to all research, both as a necessary premise to provide new knowledge and to ensure legitimacy for the research itself. The researcher must select the hypothesis to be tested and the methods to be used for the work. The question in this case is whether the academic freedom of the part of research not carried out in institutions whose activities are governed by law on universities and colleges is weaker than in the institutions covered by the law. In the case relating to the relationship with the Institute which has created the possibility for this debate, the Institute also stresses that the Department has established independence of decision and that academic freedom should be safeguarded in line with the legal purpose clause of the Law on Higher Education. As the opinion shows, the majority also considers that academic freedom as such cannot be interpreted in a restrictive way, but that it is also the law in force outside the UH sector, whether statutory or non-statutory. My impression, fortunately, is that direct override or attempt to directly restrict the work of researchers and the presentation of research does not represent a major problem. However, we record, as the concrete example referred to in the draft representative, claims that these basic principles are being challenged, directly or indirectly. These include: questions raised about the financing itself of certain research institutions and projects themselves may restrict academic freedom. As the Minister of Knowledge has explained in his letter to the Committee, the Centre Party and the majority of the Committee believe that it could be both unfortunate and inappropriate to legislate for the other part of the field of research to protect academic freedom. However, it may be wise to strengthen the principle of academic freedom by further clarification by the State, inter alia. when granting basic government funding to research institutes not covered by the UH Act. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State will take a closer look. As the position shows, there is no political disagreement as to the importance of academic freedom as a fundamental principle of research ethics. There is also broad political consensus that a continuous need to ensure that this principle is respected. It is therefore good that a Joint Committee unanimously underlines the importance of protecting academic freedom, and that this should apply regardless of who is the sponsor and who is the funder.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e287	I want to praise the Left for providing a good and important proposal. I think this is a debate which is healthy, that the Stortinget takes on a regular basis, and that in all areas of research, one is aware of this. Some of the background to this matter is the debate that took place last year in the media on academic freedom. The part of the field of research covered by the Law on Higher Education has received a necessary legal protection on academic freedom. However, the debate has raised doubts as to whether private enterprises, independent research institutes, health enterprises, etc. have the same protection. This part of the research field, which is not covered by the Law on Higher Education, is estimated to be about 70 pst. of the total research effort in Norway. Academic freedom is a matter of course, yes, it is a fundamental element of all higher education, and it is the whole committee that supports it. This should also be the case in all sectors engaged in research. We are constantly seeing that this freedom can be put under pressure through increased productivity requirements, commercial exploitation of research results and a stronger demand for immediate social exploitation. That's why I think it's more than ever essential to fence up academic freedom in all research. Academic freedom is an important prerequisite for research to continue both democratic values and to fulfil its social role. Then there is a discussion in the committee – and I feel that both the majority and the minority have a real concern about it – that target management, more political leadership and mission research can lead to obstacles to academic freedom. Because it requires a high level of caution from authorities when it comes to targeting, political leadership and mission research – a high level of integrity, a high level of caution and what we often use when talking about the democratic principles of other countries, namely ‘transparency’. Therefore, I believe that it is natural to have both the discussion and the proposal, and that we agree that it is natural to make a stronger clarification of the basic principles of academic freedom for all researchers, regardless of what kind of employer or sponsor they have. The consultation has provided suggestions on how this can be done in a good way. It gives the Government, believes the Christian People's Party, good tools in ensuring academic freedom for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e298	This matter is also presented as an individual matter, but we had a rather principled starting point when we promoted the matter. It was just an example we gave, which shows that what we all consider to be a natural thing, is also perceived to be under pressure in many places. As the rapporteur said, academic freedom is a fundamental freedom linked to freedom of expression. We live at a time when freedom of expression is being debated, and we see that there are many different opinions about how it should be exercised, but in the academic field, I really expected there to be a great deal of agreement in principle. Then I would have thought that this would be a happy day, where one could show that an initiative on the Grand Duchy could lead to a majority and a broad consensus on important principles. But the debate, especially represented by the representative Tajik, shows that the Labour Party is on a line in the committee where you are going to try to disagree where you don't have it and where you are going to try to show differences where they don't exist. The claim that there are no forces in the institute sector that challenge academic freedom is a rather arrogant attitude. Saying that everyone who points out that there are challenges is against all the tools that can be designed, I would say that is wrong. The only thing I agree with the representative of Tajik is that the framework conditions are a threat to academic freedom. Yes, that's why some of us have fought against the cutting of the rest. So it's pointed out that someone is very much in order to regulate this. The reason why the left has not gone into the comment that rejects legal regulation is that we do not want to reject anything. In fact, we want to go open into this process and do as the Research Association says, put down a sample that looks at how to do this in the best possible way, and also look at how to do it in other countries, and not go into a process of rejecting the possibilities to regulate it. So we want the most open round on how to do that. A theme that was also addressed when the UH law was being dealt with was the desire for regulation in the field of academic freedom, for the sector that fell outside the UH law. It's taken time. But I hope this might be a push to get it to. So I hope that the tone of the debate is about when you manage to reach agreement, you get to hold the consensus and don't assign opinions to people you know they don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e313	President, before I start speaking, allow me to correct a mistake in the Committee's position that has been repeated in the speeches by several representatives. It says that reference is made to the Minister of Science's letter of reply. That letter of reply came from the Minister of Research and Higher Education. Let me first stress that academic freedom is a very important principle. It is absolutely essential that researchers have the right to choose their own methods and publish their research results. We have a societal need for a common, research-based knowledge base. Society must therefore have confidence that the development of knowledge and the perception of what is valid knowledge are not governed by special interests. We all depend on the legitimacy of research. For the administration and for us politicians who are major consumers of research to justify our policy development and choice of actions, trust in research and researchers is particularly important. Academic freedom is a collective term for ideas that emphasize freedom of thought and freedom of expression as the basis for the search for true knowledge and understanding. Academic freedom is thus also of great importance for the development of democracy and the open debate in society. I fully support the Committee in its emphasis on the importance of these ideas for free and independent research. Academic freedom is regulated in many countries, for example: in a special law on higher education, as we have chosen to do here in Norway. Some countries have chosen to protect academic freedom through the Constitution. There are also many countries where academic freedom is illegal, but equally fully applicable law. This is the starting point in Norway for researchers employed in research institutes outside the university and higher education sectors. Academic freedom has both an institutional and an individual side. The pillars of individual academic freedom were described by the Underdal Committee as the freedom to ask questions, the freedom to determine which material and methods to use to find answers, and the freedom to make public hypotheses, results and reasoning. The Underdal Committee also stated that the activities of research institutes are not always comparable with those of the higher education sector, and there are considerable variations also in the institutional sector as regards core activities and organisation. The principles of the Law on Higher Education cannot therefore be used unabated for all organisations carrying out research. But the core of the basic principles, as described by the Underdal Committee, should apply to all scientific search for true knowledge and understanding, irrespective of where it takes place. The choice of methods and the right to publish will be central to such principles. In this debate, we must not forget that all researchers also have freedom of expression – more have been involved. For researchers who are civil servants, this is underlined in the ethical guidelines of central government. Furthermore, it is emphasised that employees of universities, colleges and research institutes have as part of their duties to contribute to the societal debate. The principle of publication of research results is also fundamental for the research institutes. The Ministry of Knowledge has drawn up a standard contract for the public use of mission research, in which the researcher’s right to publish results is categorized. It is also important to be aware that academic freedom does not apply without restrictions, either at universities, universities or in the institute sector. For the institutions, the limitations are likely to appear more often. The limitations of individual academic freedom can therefore be shared in general and in particular according to the type of assignment that a researcher has. The purpose and nature of the restrictions determine whether they are considered legitimate. Some restrictions have been set for the benefit of others. Other restrictions may include privacy and the protection of business secrets. The latter is likely to meet more frequently than the university and higher education sectors because of extensive research on the assignment or plans for patenting or other industrial activities. Academic freedom does not mean that a researcher can at any time choose what he or she will research. The research institutes are considered our common knowledge base and the recipient of assignments. Of course, contracting entities must be able to choose what is the theme of the research mission, but of course they do not control the choice of methods or impose restrictions on the right to publish. It is legitimate for society and for politicians to give priority. An institution will therefore be bound by objectives set by the overall authorities and the institution management must be able to govern in order to achieve those objectives. Target management and policy leadership are necessary tools to ensure good governance of government resources. In order to ensure the legitimacy of research in society, we depend on the adequate protection of academic freedom. Taking into account the heterogeneity of the sector, regulatory regulation appears difficult – businesses are different, and any restrictions on academic freedom will vary. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with this. I agree that academic freedom should initially apply to publicly supported research, and I will therefore assess how the right to academic freedom can be better clarified in the guidelines for state basic funding of research institutes. The public funding of Norwegian research is largely channelled through the Research Council. There they have developed conditions for research aid to which all beneficiaries must relate. In consultation with the Research Council, I would like to look at how general requirements for academic freedom could be reflected in these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e345	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e349	I'm glad that the Council of State stresses the demands and the right to publish the things that are produced by these institutes. I think the representative Hagen, who represents the same party as the Council of State, made a good contribution. He was talking about a researcher who went from the institute sector to the college because he could not run large-scale and long-term projects in the institute sector. He talked about the right to research on the useless, and then I expect that he refers to projects where there is little willingness to pay out in a commercial market. My question to the Council of State is about something that is not mentioned in the vote, but that we talked a lot about before Christmas: What does the Council of State think basic appropriations as a percentage should be for the large eligible institutes? How large must they be in order to achieve the objective that researchers in the institute sector also have the opportunity to operate long-term projects where there is little willingness to pay on the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e358	I think I understood in Tord Lien's own speech earlier from the pulpit that the economic situation should not be mixed into the debate on academic freedom. Now he's doing exactly that. I just want to say that there's actually a slightly different debate. But to fill in a little bit of what Aksel Hagen put up for, I would say that I fully agree that there must also be some people who are researching the so-called useless -- what you might not quite know the answers to -- but I think that research is primarily carried out as basic research and thus in universities and not so much in the institute sector, which is more used research. That is the debate we now have on the academic freedom of applied research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e363	I perceived the Government's response as very positive and in a slightly different tone than the government parties here today, so I'm going to hold the same tone back. I thought I would ask if the council could be a little more specific about how she might intend to follow up such a decision in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e368	As I said in my post, I see an absolute need to clarify the demands of academic freedom towards the research institutes. And that's what I'm going to do -- of course even with the department, with a review of what's going down and written about this, but also in a dialogue with the Research Council, because there are also people who are developing guidelines, conditions and requirements in relation to research. I fully agree with the representative of the Skei Grande that this must be made clear in the basic documents on which the research is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e373	I agree with the Council of State that the debate on economics – let's say space for action, which is the name of the selection that assesses the university and higher education sector right now, the Action Space Committee – is a slightly different debate than the fundamental debate on academic freedom. But they're bumping into each other, there's a boundary area somewhere. I think the party trap of the Council of State Aksel Hagen really said it quite well: one can of course ask questions about how real freedom is when the economic opportunities and the economic space are also greatly reduced. I wonder if the Council of State agrees with that assessment, that somewhere there is a limit to how real academic freedom is, if it is in practice bound by a reduced space of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e380	The working group set up to look at the action space in the university and higher education sectors has been asked in particular to consider a whole that goes far beyond the economic sphere. There are some challenges in relation to, let's say, barriers of different kinds, which can deal with both working practices and ways of working in-house in the institutions, and which swallow money on the way from sending them from the Government until they get to the individual researcher. This has to do not only with the money flow itself, it also has to do with working conditions. I have to say that there was an interesting post from the representative Hadia Tajik here, too, about the management of the institutes and in the research sector in general. These are important debates and important discussions on space for action in all ways. I would prefer that this debate, to which the questioner has put up, be a debate on how academic freedom can best be maintained in the institutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e387	Let me start by clarifying a little misunderstanding. It was the representative Hagen who brought the economics into the debate, and then I felt the need to give the Council of State the opportunity to follow it up. With regard to the relationship between strategic governance and basic allocation, there is a debate we have ample opportunity to come back to, and that is clearly also necessary. At the end of its intervention, the Council of State addresses the difference between privately funded research and publicly funded research in the institute sector. Clearly, we understand that in some cases there will have to be some limitations on privately funded research. But we know about a number of examples that also publicly funded research, or what I like to call taxpayer-funded research, does not flow to taxpayers. I would have liked the Council of State to be more categorical about the fact that research – unless there are security policy reasons that warrant something else – will be to the public and that researchers will have the opportunity to discuss this on an academic free basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e394	An important issue and an important action in the research communication discussed by the Stortinget in the previous period was what we have called open access, open access, i.e. state-funded research should be open to the public, and not only by ordinary paper publishing, but also online and in other ways. I think it's a very important principle that it should be openness. There may be, as the representative is also concerned, matters of a commercial and other nature that make something unopened. But most of it will be in the category of government funding, it should be available to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e401	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e406	In my article I started from the comments in the setting of the Document 8 proposal. In parts of that setting, there is a majority and a minority. Then I believe that it is natural to make political disagreements visible where there is. I have not assigned any position to the minority, but on the contrary my post was used to justify the position of the working party in the setting. The left has chosen to ask the minority on the issue of target management and political leadership, but they do not justify their position. This could have been done by the representative of the Left in the debate, but instead refers to the financial framework, which belongs to a budget debate. So I would like to add that the undersigned representative will continue to point out political disagreement where there is, as the vote shows in this case. I hope that the representative from the Left will not link his emotional life to political disagreement. And I hope the rest of the day will be a happy day!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e415	I'll first take away from two statements in my previous post. First, I accused the Left of strong confidence in an extra dose of new and enhanced regulation. After Trine Skei Grande's posts, I have no reason to claim it. She said that the Left had an open approach to regulation or not. Secondly, I'm going to distance myself from my appointment of the Council of State. I'm sorry! Then to the theme of academic freedom. Laws and guidelines, requirements and regulations, etc. Is good. But this is primarily about what we can call good management, which is an important keyword. I think it has a lot to do with a professional culture out there among the researchers, what is considered to be good and decent behavior. I also think it has a lot to do with what kind of state of health we have in the public debate over a given period of time, that we appreciate that opinions break freely and openly. If we have that kind of public debate culture, researchers too will be able to go out and participate in it. I think that – and the whole committee, I tick – is a good ideal. So a little bit about economics. What one mission researcher referred to here, I think is related to the fact that on the one hand there are many clients, both in public and private, who order answers to big questions – and then the answers will come in a very short time. Then it might not be very well paid. Not least, it may go beyond what the researcher needs to himself on what is a decent way to answer these questions. By feeling that one has not been fully financed, so that one must begin to go a little on accord with one's own methodological requirements, feels like a pressure on academic freedom to do decent academic work. It's a cross of thought, and I understand very well that it's being experienced out there, not least by mission researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e425	This debate, which we are about to conclude, has not been about economic conditions directly. Nor has it dealt directly with the subject of political research versus free research. But both of these themes and today's theme, academic freedom, are part of a whole, and it could probably be a little difficult sometimes to make the boundaries between these discussions, because of course they're connected. In the same way, like some other representatives, I also think that the article by the representative Tajik contained – let's say – some rather special comments on the fact that more leadership gives more freedom to researchers. I think she formulated it like this. If you were to draw it very far, there's no doubt that a lot of management goes into a lot of control, and so you're left in something that could threaten some fundamental freedom in research. The question here is actually what kind of dosage you choose. The absence of management is probably not good. No dictatorial leadership is good either. So the question is what kind of dosage you choose before it gets too much. Being able to establish that a lot of management gives increased freedom, I think is a little special and doubtful reasoning. Then the representative Tajik also made a number that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party pointed to an indirect threat to academic freedom and research freedom as a result of reduced economic space, among others. We had this debate a few weeks ago in Stortinget as a result of an interpellation on political versus free research. There is no doubt that strong growth in earmarked funds, a reduction in free resources, more policy objectives and leadership and more resources tied up by collaborative projects also internationally – as we know commits large Norwegian research funds – reduces the freedom of action for the research field. There can be no doubt about it. Again, however, there is a question of dosage, especially with regard to the relatively many policy objectives adopted for the field of research. Finally, let me take the chance to complain to the Council of State on behalf of a unanimous committee that that incursion has occurred that we have used the wrong name of the Council of State. I don't think I'm going to repeat that, and it might be strange that everyone's awake eyes have passed, but that's what happened. Of course, we in the Committee know the title of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e434	I'm a kind of politician who thinks it's very funny to discuss political disagreements. It's a bit of my drive to get up in the morning. What I might think is a little pointless, is to spend time on political disagreements that don't exist, and what I think maybe this case bears the mark of. I thought this would be a plank debate on something that we actually agreed on, where we could discuss how to implement this. Now I find for the first time in my life at Stortinget need to clarify a remark: ‘However, members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left consider that a number of factors can help challenge the fundamental principles of academic freedom, inter alia.’. And so we are against all the things that stand in ‘amongst others’, because we frame up something that might be a challenge! That's what I'm responding to, that you're being assigned an opinion you don't have. Then the representative Tajik can point out that academic freedom should have nothing to do with framework conditions, so we should not discuss this. The reason I took up framework conditions was that the representative Tajik referred to the fact that framework conditions are some of those that actually affect academic freedom. I just think we should discuss what we really disagree about, and there's a lot of it in this field. Then we can rather spend the time discussing it rather than giving people opinions that we know they don't have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e448	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e464	In this case, we might be able to have political consensus, unlike in the previous case. Prop. 62 L for 2009–2010 is based on changes in the law to simplify the system of charging different government fees. You go from prepayment to ex post collection. This is a more rational process, it's claimed. Regardless of what else you might think about the fees, you might agree that you should charge them in a simple and straightforward way. Here, responsibility and authority are transferred to the central government collection centre for the enforcement of some of the State charges. The attitude of the nutrition committee is recommended without any comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e473	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then we can see that there is a consensus here that this is a consensus. [[Fotation, see page 1798]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e491	Norway has proud traditions as a major act in shipping. We have managed to achieve this through very skilled shipowners and seafarers in all categories. We have done this despite the fact that Norway is a small country. Norwegian shipping companies and seafarers have been shown to handle both cargo by sailboats, steamships and now motorised vessels on all the world's oceans. This is a matter of great respect. In order also to be a competitive maritime nation in modern times, like a number of other countries, we have established different types of ship registers. It is important that these registers are always competitive, so that we do not get a flagging out of the fleet to other countries that have better arrangements than what we ourselves have. There is clearly a link between the number of Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian boats and the fact that they are registered in Norway. I am also convinced that if a vessel is linked to one of the Norwegian ship registers, whether NIS or NOR, this will also lead to a greater use of Norwegian services, such as: repairs, deliveries, etc. I am pleased that the Government in its Soria Moria II, in Chapter 4, Economic Policy, states that one should continue the net pay system for seafarers, follow the maritime strategy and continue the shipping tax system adopted in 2007. This is provided by the Government Declaration on which the Government is founded. Long-termity and predictability are very important for an industry that is totally dependent on the fact that the framework conditions in force at all times in order to compete in a very tight and capital-intensive market are really in place. In fact, I will also give tribute from this pulpit to the Council of State for the initiative that has been taken to get Norwegian shipowners to fly their ships back to Norway. This is a very good initiative. In this regard, I would just like to refer to media essays in which shipowner John Fredriksen's shipowners have notified the home flag of – it is well – four vessels. At least that's what happens in the media. On 3 January this year, we were able to read on E24 that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with Secretary of State Rikke Lind at the head, has worked hard to get more ‘Norwegian’ shipping companies into the Norwegian International Ship Register, NIS, after Norwegian shipping companies, as shown in the E24 lookup, are now receiving the same good tax rules as in the EU. This was followed up in many ways by the Norwegian Shipowners' Association in a notice in Dagbladet.no on Friday 15 January, where reference was made to the fact that several hundred ships could be flagged home to Norway if the rules of NIS were changed. What one refers to in this article is that ships currently registered in NIS cannot go to Norwegian ports. These restrictions are set out in Section 4 of the NIS Act, which states that there is a ban on ‘to carry cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports’, a ban on ‘to proceed in a fixed route with passengers between Norwegian and foreign ports’ and a ban on the carriage of cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports and Norwegian continental shelf facilities. Furthermore, the article refers to the statement by the Executive Director of the Federation of Shipowners to the Economics of today: ‘It is a paradox that NIS-registered ships, unlike ships in all other registers, do not have access to Norwegian Socket or Norwegian Coastal Navigation. This is pure discrimination against NIS ships in our neighbourhoods.’ In contrast, the Norwegian Maritime Officers’ Association, which refers to an opinion on its website, states that on its own, they believe that the lifting of limitations on the seagoing area could result in a ‘massive deflagration of NOR and loss of Norwegian competence’. This shows, of course, that one has to find a balance that ensures competitive conditions in the ship registers, while ensuring Norwegian jobs and Norwegian competence. In order to achieve this, it is now necessary to review the conditions of the ship registers in order to look at just how one can bring about the specific changes that make the Norwegian ship registers more competitive than today. In today's edition of the Today's Economy, entitled 'Fair with Norwegian flag', we read: ‘Despite the government’s campaign to get several shipping companies to choose the Norwegian flag on their ships, the number of vessels in the Norwegian ship registers decreases. State Secretary Rikke Lind believes — according to the article — ‘the financial crisis is some of the explanation for the decline’. This is, with respect to reporting, a too easily explained. The decline we are now seeing, both in the number of ships and not least in tonnage, is worrying. Only during 2009 there were 48 fewer ships in Norwegian ship registers. If the explanation to State Secretary Rikke Lind was correct, the proportion of Norwegian ships registered abroad should not have increased. But we see, unfortunately, that Norwegian shipowners register their ships to a greater extent abroad. According to the statistics, we have had very negative developments in the Norwegian ship registers in recent years. It's especially worth noting the decline in the last ten years. The conditions of the international ship registers must be competitive. We must ensure that the framework conditions that we offer our shipowners and others who want to register in Norway are stable, predictable and internationally competitive. Furthermore, it is quite clear that we need to legislate on the net pay system at a level where we are competitive towards, for example, the EU. our neighbouring country. This is important to get in place, so you have the certainty that, whether you flag home or enter these registers, you have the predictability we've talked about in the past, that you know what you're dealing with when you go in and invest relatively high amounts in ships. Finally, I just want to say that it is also important to carry on with the shipping tax, that you do not now start looking for other ways to collect the same money, as a result of the Supreme Court ruling that came before the weekend, by changing the framework conditions. It would be a very unfortunate and bad signal to send out to an industry that is already struggling in many areas, and which needs not least predictability. I also believe that we need to look at the area limitations imposed on NIS. This should be the subject of cooperation and consideration with seafarers’ organisations in order to arrive at a mutually agreed solution to further positive developments for the shipping nation of Norway. I think relatively many of us followed the series of programs that went on TV 2 – I guess so – about Norwegian shipping industry and its history. It is important that we can continue to be a proud force in shipping in the future – also internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e540	Let me first say that the Progress Party may have a greater love for the private TV channels than for the license-funded – but I think it was the NRK that had the excellent series of Norwegian shipping. Then, of course, the Progress Party can take comfort in the fact that the license fees have at least gone to something reasonable and good. The interpellant raises questions about what the Government will do to ensure the competitiveness of ship registers. I want to reciprocate the reward I received from him, and say that I am very pleased that the committee too has a strong commitment to the maritime industry. I know that, in particular, the county from which the interpellant comes is well represented in the nutrition committee. It's good for the maritime industries, because More and Romesdal is a very heavy maritime state, with a large share of the value creation, with many skilled and internationally competitive yards and with many shipping companies. And there are a lot of seafarers coming from this county. Taking care of these industries means a lot, especially now, when the world is experiencing a global financial crisis where markets have failed. Maintaining competence and maintaining good business until the markets turn around is a common task for all of us, across political divides. The Norwegian International Ship Register was established in 1987, in response to a massive flagging of Norwegian owned ships to various registers allowing international manning solutions. NIS registration also allows international manning solutions, provided that collective bargaining agreements exist. The Norwegian officers’ and seafarers’ organisations are parties to these agreements. At the same time, it was hoped to maintain high safety and environmental requirements based on Norwegian legislation and good control mechanisms within the framework of international requirements. Both Norwegian-owned and foreign-owned ships can be registered in NIS. In this way, the Norwegian authorities wanted to offer a competitive Norwegian registration option, in order to maintain shipping companies’ links with Norway and prevent weathering in the maritime industries. The background was, simply: To keep a full maritime cluster, we also had to have shipping companies and boats under the Norwegian flag. In many ways this is at the heart of a maritime cluster: without ships – no shipyards, no seafarers, no insurance schemes, no financial instruments, etc. This is a support bar, and we have to facilitate that this too finds its place within a Norwegian maritime cluster. The NIS Act limits the working range of ships. NIS-registered ships may not carry cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports or enter a regular route between Norwegian and foreign ports. In 1991, the NIS register had about 900 ships. After this, the number has gradually decreased to less than 600 vessels in NIS today. In particular, the reduction has occurred in recent years. At the same time, we have had an increase in the number of NOR-registered ships, so that the total Norwegian registered merchant fleet now represents about 1,475 ships. The number of ships in NIS has fallen during the financial crisis, and State Secretary Lind is probably right that some of this can be explained by the fact that all shipping is experiencing tough times internationally, especially through reduced world trade. However, the number of ships in NIS has increased slightly after the new year and now counts 590 ships. As the interpellant himself said, we have an active dialogue with various shipping companies to get more ships under the Norwegian flag and hope this will deliver results beyond 2010. At the same time, I also want to highlight that the NOR fleet is still rising steadily. In the Government’s maritime strategy ‘Supporting course’ presented in 2007, the vision is that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation. Among other things, we want to ensure that the maritime industries continue to choose Norway as their host country. ‘Supporting course’ contains important measures to make the framework conditions in Norway more competitive. Central here is a new shipping tax scheme, a stable net wage system, as well as targeted and increased investment in competence, research and the environment. One of the priorities of the strategy is to develop a common strategy for the marketing and market profiling of Norway abroad. The point of action has been followed up in the so-called reputational project and through grants for the marketing of NIS. In addition, the action point is now continued in the project ‘Norway as a maritime host country’ launched in November 2009 in connection with the yard competition in Ålesund. The aim of the entire campaign is to put a new maritime activity in Norway, both by relocating Norwegian activity and by attracting foreign operators to choose Norway. In addition, it is important to facilitate the continuation of maritime activities already carried out in Norway. As part of our work, we will identify legislation and administrative procedures that may impede the choice of Norwegian flag. The Ministry therefore asked in November last year the shipping industry, the maritime organisations and the class companies to make representations on what would hinder the choice of the Norwegian flag. Organisations have comments related to, among others. the restriction of service, the net pay scheme and the service of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. We have also held a series of meetings with relevant persons and shipping companies to get recordings and discuss opportunities to get them to flag ships and move businesses to Norway. We're now going through all of these recordings. One thing is the financial framework conditions, but it should also be so that service, bureaucracy and organisation should be as good in Norway as elsewhere. You should experience being met with an open door and a friendly, helpful setting, so that you feel welcome and that it is well prepared. In some cases, it is purely market-specific that is crucial in the location decision, but in other cases it has to do with marketing, communication and service. It is also important to bear in mind that the choice of registers and tax jurisdiction by shipping companies will be separate decisions. Work has produced concrete results. Several large companies have announced that they choose to register ships in the NIS register. That these companies choose to flag ships home has a significant signal effect that we hope others will look to. I believe it is important for the entire maritime industry to have a large fleet with Norwegian flag. The use of Norwegian registers helps to increase the link between shipping and the Norwegian maritime environment and contributes to increased value creation and employment effects. It also gives Norway greater international impact when we have a large fleet and when environmental rules and regulations are discussed internationally – then what Norway says is important. In the IMO, in other international contexts, as an EU partner, in our dialogue with Asia, and in the discussion of a new trade agreement with China, our great fleet is an important argument for listening to and being an interesting partner. In addition, a large fleet under the Norwegian flag provides a basis for maintaining the capacity and professional competence environments of the maritime administration, which is also a good basis for gaining an international impact on the Norwegian position. So the interpellant takes up the question of NIS and NOR – whether to change the regulatory boundaries. There, however, the interpellant does not address what will be a main objection, namely the objection of seafarers to working conditions and to association with Norway. I'm going to assume that there are also many from the interpellant's home country who have a opposite position to the interpellant flag, because they are afraid to undermine the working conditions of Norwegian seafarers. This isn't a code and a system that's stuck in a rock. This is a system that can always be discussed and should be discussed, and so should the other instruments that we have at any time. The interpellant can take it quite calmly, we are not going to change legislation, arrangements or budget lines within the maritime system as a result of the Supreme Court ruling last week. We want a competitive maritime regulation and an organisation for the maritime sector in Norway, but we need to keep an independent assessment of the means we use, so that we both spend the money in a sensible way and ensure that the effort we put into actually provides a strong maritime industry for Norwegian seafarers, through the shipbuilding and supply industries and all the service companies, and up to the shipping companies that fly the Norwegian flag on all the world's oceans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e582	First, I said in the introduction of my post that I was not quite sure if it was on NRK or TV 2 I had seen the program. I am at least happy that the Council of State has also seen the same program – and then we agree that we have got something left for our license money, and that is good. Then we're going to let the advertisers keep producing in their own way. I want to grasp what the Council of State said at the end of its speech. The Council of State claimed that the undersigned did not take into account what had to do with the seafarers, related to the boundaries of the area, and the conditions and competences of the seafarers. Yeah, that's exactly what I did. If the Council of State had got what I said in my post, I made it quite clear. But in order for the Council of State to bring it along, I will repeat what I said. I said the following: ‘In contrast to this, the Norwegian Maritime Officers’ Association, which refers to an opinion on its website, considers that, on its side, the lifting of limitations on the seagoing area could result in a ‘massive deflagration from NOR and loss of Norwegian competence’.’» In addition, the undersigned said: ‘This shows, of course, that one has to find a balance which ensures competitive conditions in the ship registers, while ensuring Norwegian jobs and Norwegian competence.’ Just because I am concerned about the Norwegian workplaces and the competence both on the socket and along the Norwegian coast, I addressed this issue. I said it was important to find a balance that both parties are earned. – I think it’s important that we bring that piece with us. This is a matter I'm very concerned about. That's not the statistics we're concerned with, that's how many ships are here and there, but the positive effects we can get from being a strong shipping nation with a big Norwegian fleet. Although the council had a very good post, I wish he had been a little more concrete. My question is what the Council of State will actually do. The councils showed in their contributions both to the recording and dialogue and to what is there, but I have, of course, also taken the liberty and looked at what matters the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has intended to send over to the Storting during the spring session. There's nothing there. In this connection, it would have been good to hear a little more specific about what the plans of the Council of State are. Of course, I was also at the yard conference in Ålesund and heard the comments of the Council of State. It was actually very good, interesting and positive. That industry is concerned about, is that we have to put the framework conditions in place. We need to hear what you're actually going to do, and then it would be okay to hear if the Council of State would also guarantee that you don't want to take a rematch on the ship's cavalry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e605	No, the government has no plans for a rematch on the shipowner's cavalry. It was actually we who provided for the regime that exists today. We have probably a problem to do with figuring out how to implement the equation for the shipping companies, because – as the interpellant knows – the Supreme Court was critical of the way it was done, but it doesn't provide a recipe for how to do this. It'll be up to another State Council, the Ministry of Finance, to figure it out. I'm sure it's in the best hands. The Norwegian ship register is competitive in our view. As regards the limitations, the interpellant refers to its own post. I am pleased that I arranged for him to be able to underline his point once again; that a balance has to be found in terms of seafarers and the register. But that's probably exactly what we think we've done with today's balance: find that balance between NOR and NIS. If the interpellant thinks this should be shifted, we'd like to accept views on how to do it. I have not registered that the batch of interpellant represents has been an active follower of neither strong trade unions nor the publication of collective agreements or the kind of instruments that could be imagined to be used, but as we see it, it may be difficult to implement in this case. So how that balance sheet should be is not just a matter for the Government to take responsibility for. We've actually done that with the register that we've created and the system that underlies it. It is also necessary for those who wish to change to take over and make proposals on how to do so. The whole shipping industry and the maritime sector are affected by an international crisis. When the number of ship contractions has decreased – what is it? – approx. 90 pst., it is clear that there is no state in the world that can replace that market with demand. I am absolutely sure that the interpellant fully agrees; we cannot order ships for which there is no need. We can't build ships on which it's overcapacity. We need to convert to new markets. In my view, there are three important things we should do. One is to ensure a level playing field internationally. We have addressed this with the EU, we have addressed it with China – we address in all international contexts that we are against a grant war, that we want fair competition. The second is that we contribute to Norwegian shipyards and maritime industries winning the contracts that exist, and perhaps contributing to some contracts where we have our own needs at home, whether they are large or small. The third is to contribute to the enforcement, development, innovation, research and innovation of the competences environment, so that we are ready for new markets. There must be the three main strategies to ensure a good and competitive maritime industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e620	We in the Workers' Party, like the interpellant, are concerned that Norway should be an attractive maritime host country. Competitive and forward-looking conditions for ship registers are important elements of such policies. We have heard the Council of State briefing on all the steps taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to contribute to this. It tells me that the Minister of Industry is working offensively to address the challenges. It has, among other things, a major effort has been made to increase the number of ships registered under the Norwegian flag. The government’s commitment to attract Norwegian shipowners abroad to seek Norway as its host country is important and contributes to the offensive marketing of NIS as an attractive quality flag, which is important for Norway as a shipping nation. The 2010 budget continued its work on targeted and active efforts to promote NIS. I myself was present in Ålesund when the Council of State launched the campaign "Norway as a maritime host country" in November. The campaign aims to attract new maritime activities to Norway, while at the same time ensuring that we keep those we already have here in the country. The reactions from the industries gathered in Ålesund were very positive. I experience the same when I'm out visiting different actors in the industry. The feedback is clear that they have great confidence in the Government's commitment to maritime nutrition. It is also important for the Ministry to review the input they have received from the industries on what is currently hampering the choice of Norwegian flag in regulatory and administrative procedures and to find good solutions to this. In order to ensure Norwegian influence and penetration in international contexts, e.g.: within the IMO, it is important that as many ships as possible are registered in NIS. It gives weight to the argument that Norway has a large and effective national register, both professionally and politically. This also pointed to an overall committee in the budgetary position we discussed as late as December. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is working on this, and I have expectations of the result. I would like to remind you that Norway has been one of the largest shipping nations since the 1900s. The success of Norway in maintaining this position is due to the fact that we have a maritime sector that is both forward-looking and innovative. Nor is it irrelevant that we have a government that has both the will and the power to act in the maritime sector. In the maritime strategy ‘Should course’, presented in 2007, we decided that Norway should be a world-leading maritime nation with the most innovative and environmentally friendly solutions. The list has been elevated by the Government as far as this is concerned. 2010 and 2011 will now be a challenging year for the yard and equipment suppliers as a result of the now emptying of the order books and, to date, very few new contracting entities are being concluded. Both the industry itself and the instrumentation must help us to maintain and build on the skills we have today, so that the industry can also get out of the recession this time. The progressing party points to the need to remove the limitations on the area of use. The right has addressed this in a proposal for a representative that we are now being discussed. As the Council of State said, this is one of several reports that the Department has received in the work they are now doing, and I agree with the Council of State that this is something we must carefully consider. But we have to take seriously the fear of increased social dumping in Norwegian waters. We are already seeing the tendency for Norwegian seafarers to be replaced with cheap labour from other countries. It is gratifying that the interpellant is committed to strengthening the Norwegian registered fleet. That there is a need to assess changes in the rules in NIS, we agree, and it is now done by the Ministry after the position of the Minister of Industry. That, in the view of the interpellant, it may seem that there is only one approximate answer, is of course a matter of concern. There may be several areas to consider. Assessment of NIS is important, but it is also important to focus on the employment impact. The range limitations in NIS have a significant impact in the opinion of Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e639	As a fiscal politician, it's my lot to talk a little bit about the cabotage. Although it is not directly related to this debate, it is at least indirectly related to it. I myself was present at the Supreme Court on Friday. I have to say that it was -- what should I call it -- a bizarre experience. To experience that the country's government is being judged in the Supreme Court by eleven cape-headed men and women was actually an incredible experience, and the decision in the Supreme Court is at least very embarrassing to the Government. What's really special is that there's no shortage of warnings. Warnings from the opposition may be understood to include a pinch of salt, but when the warnings come from former Supreme Court judges and competent legal teams, from many, many teams – when there is so much controversy as to whether there is a breach of the Constitution § 97 – it is almost incomprehensible to me that a decision in the Grand Duchy is being pushed through. But I'll go back a little bit. The 1996 shipping system meant that shipping companies could be taxed only on capital taken into account in dividends. In other words, as long as the shipowners chose to use any surplus to strengthen their equity or expand their business, no tax would be paid. Shipowners who chose to withdraw from the scheme would have to pay taxes from the moment of exit. The shipping companies dealt with this and they complied with the principles of the arrangement. They did what the government asked them to do. In 2007, the Government chose unilaterally to terminate the scheme, believing that the companies would pay tax eleven years in return, not because they broke the principles of the scheme, but because the Government changed the rules. And what was the background to the 1996 shipping tax system? After all, the background to the scheme was to keep companies in Norway, when the government at the time thought it was central to the creation of value, skills and jobs in Norway. In 1996, the government tried to get both bags and bags. The shipowners were lured into Norway, and the government got a lot of brilliance and probably a lot of votes for it, but it was all implemented – excuse me, President – by some lurengers who thought they were: Yes, we got the shipping companies to be in Norway, we collected a lot of votes, not 36.9 pst. However, but nevertheless. And then in 2007, like lightning from the clear sky, you put in place a system that is similar to that in our competitor country, but as a payment for that, the 1996 agreement will not apply. You have to collect tax eleven years back in time. Imagine if there had been an ordinary taxpayer out there that was told to pay taxes that were thought to have been dropped for 11 years, that they were told to pay back. It had been completely unheard of, and I don't think the Council of State would have accepted that kind of decision either. So in its taxpayer, the government chose to break the Constitution, and it's very serious. When they then introduced a new tax regime, which was similar to what they had in our competitors, the idea of course was that now no flag would fly out because now the conditions in Norway are similar to those in our competitors. So the government lured a number of companies to be in Norway. Some shipping companies chose, for good reason, not to trust the Government's promises, but most shipping companies remained. But the question that is unanswered is, of course, whether these companies would remain if they had the slightest idea that they would be tried to tax with retroactive effect. Probably all the flags had been out already in 1996. No matter how many times you replace a Minister of Industry, or a Minister of Finance, the red-green government's management of the shipping tax will forever stand as a monument to the government's inability and willingness to establish a stable and predictable framework for business. So in the next election, if the Council of State Guess is still the Council of State, and he's running around talking about stable framework conditions, then there's no reason to believe that. What is crucial now is the impact of the Supreme Court decision on the shipping industry. Will the 2007 framework conditions be maintained? The council claims that he does not want a rematch, has no plans for a rematch. But will the Council of State legislate here from the pulpit, confirm that what is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the 2007 terms, will be maintained? And will he accept the judgment of the Supreme Court and not claim back these 21 billion dollars, and repay the 3 billion already paid? Will the Council of State confirm here from the pulpit that you accept the judgment of the Supreme Court, and does he realize that you have violated the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e656	It is a little special that the Stortinget will deal with a new case on shipping conditions only two to three days after the judgment in the Supreme Court, which concluded that the Stortinget has previously agreed to apply. I'm not going to go into that matter, it was Christian Tybring-Gjede significantly. I just want to say to the Council of State that he, although it's not in his department, can play an important role here. It seemed a bit as if the Council of State thought this was a matter of some court that has taken a stand in an equation case, but it is a little more than that. That's the retroactive force we're talking about. Let me also praise the interpellant that he has addressed a very important topic. We know that important issues are raised by representatives from that part of the country, but this with the NIS register is important. The Council of State and the Department have been good at traveling around to get ships back to the Norwegian flag. I think that, in the same way as the interpellant, is if not affordable, so at least almost that. Then I think it is a little strange that it should be so easy to talk to John Fredriksen and Herbjørn Hansson about getting Norwegian flag on the boats, while it should be so terribly difficult to talk about what is really linked in this with the NIS register, namely the traffic limits, on which the interpellant went quite carefully. It's the limitations of the sea area that make 200, 300, maybe up to 400 boats that travel in the North Sea basin and in the countries around, and even from Norway, even to the base, cannot use the NIS flag. With regard to the further discussion, I understood that the Council of State would like good advice from others on how to deal with this. But I have heard both from the Council of State and from the next speaker from the Labour Party that this is a problem with the Maritime Organisations. Well, then you have to look at it. I understood at the Council of State that you have a dialogue with all the organisations – you look at the code, you look at the recordings that are coming. Then I think you have to go to this, because there is no doubt that the NIS register is in decline – regardless of the financial crisis. You have to blame it, and I don't ignore the fact that it also matters – of course it does – but it has been in decline for a very, very long time. It is quite significant, so I would like to refer to the big message that was presented in – I kept saying – prehistoric time, during the Bondevik government, in which we participated. Following the notification, a working group was set up to look at actions at the time, in 2004, in order to ‘re-establish NIS’ as it is called, ‘as an attractive international quality register’. After a number of good comments when the notification was dealt with in Stortinget, the majority supported the gradual expansion of the area. What's interesting is that the Workers' Party and the Center Party were behind this. In that area, no world thing has happened. That's why a lot of people are now worried that NIS participation is going down. I think we need to find ways to make this attractive and active. In this connection, the interpellant pointed out that he could not see that the government had any cases in this area to Stortinget. I can then comfort the inter-pellant and, to the extent that the Council of State has also promoted a document 8 on this which will be discussed. Then it will be possible to go into this in even more detail. We have also suggested in this Document 8, into this very difficult discussion area about the Norwegian Maritime Organisations, which is one of the things that the Swedish Shipowners' Association has recorded to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, namely that perhaps this with the net pay scheme is something you can look at in an expanded context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e671	It's an important question the interpellant addresses. NIS is an integral part of Norwegian shipping policy. The main effect of NIS is that high levels of participation in this register give Norway greater weight in international negotiations. SV is busy using this position and the international weight. We are among others engaged in working to obtain IMO penetration for stricter environmental requirements for ships and shipping. It is important to help this industry take on its global and local responsibilities in relation to the environment. But it is also an important contribution to strengthening the shipbuilding industry in Norway. It's important in these difficult times for the yard industry. In a period when there is no market for new tonnage, upgrading to better environmental standards can create employment at Norwegian shipyards with relevant technology. This applies, for example: actions against NOx that we have developed through the NOx Fund. This shows that environmental requirements strengthen the industry, both the shipping industry and the shipbuilding industry. SV is therefore aware that Norway is putting a great deal of weight behind the work to strengthen environmental requirements for ships and shipping. There will be an important measure in work to facilitate the situation in the yard industry. But it is also important that someone dares to go and show the way. It is important that the reindeer industries run and take responsibility for the environment and the yard industry. Environmental updates of the fleet should be initiated even if it takes time to negotiate within the IMO. This is very important for the yard industry, and we hope that the Shipowners' Association can be a driver in this development. There has been a lot of discussion in the media about what membership of NIS means for Norway and for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry. Many claim it has limited value. Membership of NIS affects slightly each place of orders, it is claimed. It should therefore be of great interest for the wider debate to examine this in greater detail. It will be important for further efforts to market shipping directors in the international environment. So finally some words about changing the rules for NIS. What you need to be aware of is that not only does a seafarer's job put in jeopardy, but one has also created a difficult competitive situation for other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e690	We who live in coastal areas that have a maritime cluster in our community know how important this industry is, not just to the local and the national, but also to the international. We are proud of this industry, and therefore maritime matters and maritime framework conditions become very important to us. The unique competence of the Norwegian maritime environment has international reputation. The basis for this competence comes from Norwegian seafarers, and the Christian People's Party will facilitate the preservation of this top competence. Norwegian shipping is an important industry and also plays a key role in job creation and coastal settlement. The Christian People's Party will ensure the shipping industry's foreseeable framework conditions and a shipping tax system that still ensures strong and active Norwegian ownership of shipping. The shipping industry and seafarers must have framework conditions that enable them to compete on the international market. As the Council of State itself mentioned in its statement, NIS was established to stop the increasing flagging out, and it has succeeded. Now we see that the trend is turning again. In recent years the number of ships has been reduced. The framework conditions for Norwegian shipping must not deviate significantly from the corresponding framework conditions for European shipping. It is a fact that ships registered in NIS meet restrictions that non-resident ships have in respect of missions in Norwegian waters. Over time, those restrictions should be removed. In the past, there has been a broad political agreement that ships in NIS should have the opportunity to take assignments to and from installations on the base. The Christian People's Party believes the Government should open up this through a regulatory change. Based on the experience gained from such an opening where the effects in the labour market are also emphasised, further resolution of the limitations on the area of use can then be assessed. This should be done, where appropriate, in close dialogue between shipping companies and with seafarers’ organisations in Norway. Having said that, the best way to ensure that in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian continental shelf, competences are built that benefit Norway and the entire Norwegian maritime cluster in the years to come is to ensure that all ships – whether with NOR or NIS flags, or with foreign flags – compete under conditions that stimulate the use of Norwegian competence environments and Norwegian labour force.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e708	Also, I want to join in the sequence of those who say they are happy that the representative Nesvik has taken up this interpellation. It is important to focus on securing ships in Norwegian registers — and perhaps mainly Norwegian-owned ships. It is the case that the Business Committee is mutually concerned with this issue, and that is why I am very pleased that we have a government and a Minister of Industry in front of the committee that is discussing it. I think that is a tribute that we can give to the Council of State in connection with this debate. Taking up knowledge, dealing with the issues and trying to understand decisions in such an important industry for Norway is of great importance. So, in my opinion, there are two objectives in this case and in this debate. One is to ensure the most Norwegian-registered ships on the one hand, while at the same time one has a system and some framework that allows one to develop and maintain Norwegian maritime know-how. This is done primarily by having as many Norwegian seafarers as possible employed. Then there's the balance sheet and the balance sheet that someone's been through, that actually has to be taken. In fact, when the limitations of the sea area are made an important matter – perhaps the most important one, if I understand several of the opposition’s posts in this room correctly – it is such that Norwegian seafarers believe that it would be a major disadvantage for the employment of Norwegian seafarers. This question is likely to also be considered — according to the work to be done by the Ministry. But on the basis of that very discussion, I think it's a cross of thought that Norwegian shipping companies, Norwegian shipping companies, cannot in any way contradict the argument of Norwegian seafarers, that lifting the limitations of the shipping area in NIS would lead to a weakening of the ability to employ Norwegian seafarers. I just include it in the debate, because I think it is very important. It is an objective to have more Norwegian registered ships, but it is also an objective to maintain as many Norwegian employees as possible in the Norwegian maritime industry – not least in terms of knowledge development, recruitment of officers, etc., etc. it is vitally important. So we shouldn't draw up the story that much. The representative Nesvik was, far within the good old tradition of Norwegian history, related to shipping, but we can only go to the time before the last big period and read a little about the story. Then there was a particularly negative development, and there was not much optimism. At that time Norway fell from third to seventh place in the number of registered ships. The shipowners disappeared from Norway. Nothing was done. In fact, a red-green government had to put in place to create a new maritime strategy and to put in place a new competitive tax system for the shipping industry. A lot has been done in a short time. But I think the debate is important, and I think the assessments that the ministry is making now are very important to follow up. But then I am a little surprised when the representative Tybring-Gjedde goes to the pulpit and tells of his bizarre experience of being a witness that the Supreme Court with eleven black-dressed men condemned the Government. More errors cannot be quoted from an experience in the Supreme Court last Friday. Then, if I can use the expression, the more bizarre the experience of sitting in this room and hearing Tybring-Gjedde's rhetorical entrance to such an important debate as the one we are now conducting. It will be with respect to report completely wrong. First, there were not eleven black-dressed men who condemned the Government. There were six out of five who thought that the Constitution was to be interpreted as the decision was, and they weren't all men, either. Finally, with the tax debate in this interpellation. I did not hear in any way that the Minister of Industry raised doubts about the shipping tax system we now have, and said it should be changed in the light of what happened on Friday. It was very clear what he said, and I think the Storting should be pleased that a minister comes to Stortinget and gives such clear answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e725	First, I will be allowed to thank everyone for a good debate. A little bit of nuance, of course, is it going to be in such a debate, whether you can join everything or not, and that's the way it should be. We're different parties here. I have to make a few corrections. I think that the representative Else-May Botten had written his post for a long time before she heard my post, for once again it was said that the undersigned said that the traffic limits had to be lifted. So I didn't say that. I believe that my response to the Council of State in this respect showed that. I said you have to look at this together with the seafarers' organisations. There's a significant difference. Furthermore, the representative Else-May Botten also said that it was only the one instrument I pointed out. No, I pointed out that the framework conditions must be stable, predictable and internationally competitive, I referred to the net pay system and the reimbursement system, and then the difference between NIS and NOR, I referred to the shipping tax, and I referred to the fee and the shipping area limitations that in NIS have to be viewed in cooperation with the maritime organisations. Then, of course, I am aware that the Right has promoted its proposal for a representative of 59 S. What I pointed out was that the government had not planned to promote any matter in this respect. So I'm glad that the Right has promoted that proposal. Then we also have the opportunity to discuss it in the committee and present a case here. Of course, we have different approaches. The Progress Party is committed to putting in place a good net pay system, and we want to legislate it. There, the Advance Party separates layers with the Christian People's Party and the Right. They want to limit and cut down on the net pay scheme. It does not want the Progress Party. Then there is the environmental requirement, to which the representative Holmelid also referred. When we set environmental requirements, it is important that they are not exclusively such that they are to the disfavor of Norwegian shipping companies again. If you look at the NOx fee, among other things, you do not follow up the foreign boats that leave here without paying the fee. There's been a big deal about it. With regard to the conditions of competition in Norway, if a ship enters a Norwegian port and looks back, it is exempt from the NOx charge. If, for example: a cruise vessel departs between Norwegian ports along the coast, and the NOx fee is payable. So it's clear we have to think through such things. I am at least pleased with the signals given by the Council of State in this Chamber, and I am looking forward to the Council of State also making proposals for concrete measures. I think we'll agree very much, because I think we have the same goals, most of us: a strong Norwegian shipping nation also in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e751	Let me also thank you for many good articles. I thank the interpellant for bringing up the theme and for constructive and good recordings, perhaps with a reservation about Tybring-Gjedde's articles. That's how, as the representative of Aasland says, during our reign we have had a different attitude to industrial policy than has been the case in the past. Instead of having a fundamental view that a government's industrial policy should be based on business neutrality and stay as far away from business as possible, we have said that we as a small country must bet where we have special advantages, special competence and special clusters. If there is one industry that has benefited from the conversion of industrial policy, it is the maritime sector, because this is one of the most perfect clusters, this is a carrier in Norwegian industrial policy. In particular, I think the Government and the Right are separating layers in the view of whether we're going to go in and make a joint effort with the business community to strengthen such a cluster or whether we're just going to lean back and say that this gets the business itself to figure out. I believe that it is precisely when the public instruments – a government commitment – work together with a strong business that has an international position that we achieve very good results. Tybring-Gjedde took up the tax case. There's another debate, and there's another Council of State, but I'm surprised that he almost makes it as if it's not even processed tax credits. It also tells the shipping companies that it is, and then the Ministry of Finance will find out how this can be done in a way that also the Supreme Court seems to be in order. We're going to have to take note of the judgment that came last week, and then figure it out. What I'm concerned about is that we're going to have competitive conditions in the future. I believe that we have this today in terms of the financial framework conditions, but we certainly have an improvement potential in terms of service, organisation, etc. We still have to get better there. And then we're constantly dealing with the different tools we have, whether they're the different constraints on the NIS register, whether it's net pay, education and organization for Norwegian seafarers, or whether it's dealing with an acute crisis, as we've had in the financial industry. I think that this debate has also made sense from the opposition parties, which we can take with us. We need this interaction and the strong commitment to the industry in the storeroom, also in order for the government to be able to do its job in a good way. I think that in the four months that have passed since I became Minister of Economic Affairs, we must have soon set a new record in discussing maritime nutrition in this room. I also believe that the Committee has a significant share of the credit for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e764	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e778	The Committee has been in agreement in this matter as regards the need to establish an outermost border fund, with the focus on implementing the common standards that we have in the Schengen acquis, adopted for the control and monitoring of the external borders and, in particular, the visa policy. With regard to II – proposal for a decision – the Committee points out that EU legislation on the management, control and audit of Community funds is not covered by the Schengen Agreement. This is why an association agreement has been negotiated with the EU for Norway and the other associated countries. The Committee is aware of the opportunities Norway has for Schengen Member States to receive project funding in order to address Norway’s need for increased external border control, as well as a quality increase in this area, including equipment and information exchange between the relevant authorities. The Committee also sees that, with the establishment of the External Borders Fund, Schengen countries will be able to respond much more to the challenges they face in the future. We see the major challenges such as: Greece has had its external border, now that both Italy and Spain have significantly tightened up their refugee and asylum policies. Therefore, an increased need for cross-country interaction is one of the pillars of a strict but fair external border control. In addition, the Committee has no comments but refers to the proposal and the Stortinget has taken the following decisions: I The size consents to the adoption of Decision 574/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the External Borders Fund and its Decisions [[further development of the Schengen acquis]] II The size consents to the conclusion of an agreement between the EC, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein on the External Borders Fund 2007-2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e799	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1799]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e817	Over the last three decades, dozens of corrupt and authoritarian states have become emerging democracies. Military juntas and one party states have fallen, and it is now for the first time in history a majority of countries that are representative and governed by a democratic constitution. Democracy is on the rise, but there are too many authoritarian regimes left. 40 pst. of the world's inhabitants still live ashore with an authoritarian regime, and only 13 pst. by the people of the world live in a land of so-called complete and stable democracy. Human rights are, according to the definition, the fundamental rights of any human being, regardless of race, gender, religion or other status, and primarily regulate the relationship between the state and the individual. Norway has had a human rights dialogue with China since 1993. In 1997, the dialogue was formalised with annual round table conferences at political level with expert participation. For the Norwegian authorities, the China dialogue was only the beginning of an commitment to human rights and dialogue. At the end of the 1990s, both Turkey and Cuba were included in the list of dialogue countries. However, both countries broke the official dialogue with Norway – Cuba in protest that Norway voted in favour of a UN resolution on human rights violations in Castro’s regime, and Turkey because they did not want to refer to human rights cooperation as a human rights dialogue. Instead, Norway has entered into human rights dialogues with Indonesia from April 2002 and with Vietnam at the level of officials from 2003. In relations with China, Norway was among the first countries to engage in a human rights dialogue. Today, China is surrounded by human rights dialogues. The United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Hungary, Brazil and the EU – all want to talk to one of the world’s fastest growing economies and the most populous country about human rights. But far from all the countries of the world are critical of China's human rights management. When the country was to be evaluated by the UN in Geneva, the friends were waiting to praise Beijing. There were countries like Sudan, Egypt, Burma, Cuba, Iran and Zimbabwe – countries that I do not associate with widespread respect for human rights. But these countries, which do not set democracy, freedom or rights high, were among those who had the best to say about China. Egypt honoured China to promote action on human rights and urged China to maintain its use of the death penalty — a practice that, according to leading human rights activists, costs up to 8 000 people lives each year. Iran called on China to tighten up its Internet censorship. Cuba referred to China as an exemplary country and the Council of the Old Communist State to prevent people, disguised as human rights activists, from trying to destroy the state. For the time being, none of the three human rights dialogues have been thoroughly and neutrally evaluated. The nearest thing we're coming is a review of the Nål Harvest Measurement, done for the U.D. He concludes that Norwegian business has been pleased with the dialogue as a door opener. ‘Industry, for example, has formulated it in such a way that human rights dialogue was an effective way of getting in touch with and maintaining contact with Chinese business during the period following the abuses in the place of heavenly peace.’ A note from the Norwegian Embassy in Beijing to the U.D. in December 2000 builds on the synergies of the dialogue. Here it says, "Norway has gained a more important position with China than our size does" because of the human rights dialogue. It is not consistent with the objectives of the human rights dialogues. According to the U.D., the overall objective of the MR dialogues through dialogue with some countries is to strengthen the implementation of the international MR framework by the dialogue country. Political contacts are a central element of the dialogues, together with networking between civil servants, the judiciary, academics and non-governmental organisations. It is easy to point out that conditions in China have not improved since the massacre in the place of heavenly peace. Rather, there are many, and more human rights organisations among them, who point out that following the terrorist attacks against the United States in 2001, the fight against terrorism has contributed to increased repression in China as well. I fear that the human rights dialogue has become a sleep cushion. The criticism of China in international forums has been muted. It therefore seems that the dialogue is a substitute for the open criticism, says Egæs in Amnesty. England in the Helsinki Committee, however, believes that the Norwegian authorities have been cautious in their criticism of China even without dialogue with the country. But the dialogue makes it easier to deal with the criticism of passivity in relation to China, he believes. I believe that political dialogue has and can have a positive effect. It is therefore a pity that China decided for 2009 to send only officials to the dialogue meetings. It also shows a lack of priority from the Chinese side. The Vietnamese dialogue was established in 2003 as an official dialogue. It is obvious that this lack of political contact in the dialogues makes the Norwegian objectives difficult, and I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on the lack of political presence, in the light of our own political contact objectives. However, the dialogues also lack defined and concrete human rights objectives that we can and should achieve. Although generally reported as a positive and pleasant tone in meetings and an opportunity to partially address problematic issues such as torture or lack of access to a lawyer or family, the results are difficult to refer to. Let me give you two examples that Amnesty draws out. It is especially when prisoners are in custody that they are subjected to torture in order to be pressured into making confessions and information. This allows the Chinese themselves to do so. When the report from a working group discussion was written, the Chinese representatives did not accept that some of the things that were said and that could be interpreted as concessions to human rights violations in China were included in the joint report. This has happened once after. Amnesty also draws up another example: ‘The Norwegian bureaucrats involved in the dialogue are fortunately quite open to criticism here at home. It also gives good impulses to the Chinese participants, and makes it easier for them to be a little more open about the problems they themselves face. The highlight of this meeting was a discussion with a guest from Oslo prison where he is currently making a longer judgment. He had not only a lot of wisdom to say about what was good or not good in Norwegian prisons, but also participated in earlier debates on television. It made a clear impression on Chinese participants that an inmate could participate in public discussions in this way — not least because he made it clear that freedom of expression was a matter of course for him, for him in prison or for one. In this session I thought: This is the human rights dialogue at its best!’ There is then a clear question of reciprocity. It is good and absolutely necessary for Norway to take self-criticism, but we must expect the same from the dialogue country. The main reason why I'm dealing with this interpellation is that it's now high time to get a thorough and independent evaluation of our human rights dialogues, as we, among other things. have seen that the EU and Canada have done so. The reports from there are critical and indicate that it is almost impossible to refer to results. We need to make the best possible use of our limited human resources, and our focus on MR and democratic development needs to be improved. I'm concerned about the development of a number of states, including China and India, in terms of MR and democracy. Both countries are convicts of conscience, have criminalised freedom of expression, violate the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and the courts are not independent bodies. Therefore, it is important that we have an openness around the dialogue, and dialogue must never be the only response to serious human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e865	What results do the human rights dialogues – following the MR dialogues? This is a good and important question. Thank you to the representative of Skovholt Gitmark for giving us the opportunity to focus on the work done in Norway's three formal dialogues – hereinafter MR dialogues, as I said – with China, Indonesia and Vietnam. Let me put these dialogs in context first. Dialogues are one of several forms of work to promote our view of human rights – they constitute a direct form of engagement with three countries. At the same time, Norway maintains a principle MR policy in relation to all countries in different international forums, and we address individual cases, individual initiatives and individual enquiries in a wide range of areas across a wide range of countries. Dialogues are valuable because they are based on dialogue – which is two-way, engaging the other party and giving room to go deep, build networks and engage not only in authorities but also in civil society. As a form and method, they provide us with a unique platform for a broad and continuous focus on human rights in selected countries over time. Let me repeat from previous debates: human rights are and become an integral part of Norwegian foreign and development policy, as it has been for many years. In general, we have had broad political agreement on the main objectives and means of work. Today’s MR dialogues are a result of the Human Rights Action Plan presented to the Stortinget in 2000. They provide us with an in-depth knowledge of how human rights are implemented at land level, what challenges countries face, and how Norway can influence. What about the criteria for the dialogues? The interpellant itself mentions the most important thing: we have such dialogue with countries where there are human rights challenges and where we can see the potential for improvement. It has been important to contribute to the ratification and implementation of UN Conventions and to exchange experience in areas where Norway has competence. This cannot be done by some form of coercion from the Norwegian side. We don't have such coercive agents. It goes without saying that the dialogue countries need to demand and have an interest in Norwegian experience. There must also be a willingness to address and discuss difficult issues and the willingness to include external environments. This last one is important to us – the presence of civil society and different knowledge environments gives the MR dialogues their peculiarity. Here our dialogues differ from other countries' related initiatives. The World Declaration of Human Rights is the platform. All dialogue countries have committed themselves internationally to respecting, protecting and fulfilling human rights. The international legal framework has been provided by the United Nations system. But then we know that the obligation itself is not enough. It is because there is a gap between commitment and fulfilment that we have a committed MR work, including dialogues with these three countries. The MR Conventions thus serve as a framework for the agenda of the dialogues and contribute to clarifying objectives and instruments. Furthermore, the universal periodic reviews of the UN Human Rights Council and the reports of the States to the Convention bodies give a hint of what should be given priority. Support for the ratification of conventions is therefore central. We work, among other things: in order for China to ratify the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, for Vietnam to ratify the Convention against Torture and for Indonesia to ratify the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. It is gratifying to note that Vietnam confirmed last month that they will ratify both the Torture Convention and the Disability Convention as soon as possible. A Norwegian MR dialogue consists of a political part that takes place at the annual round table conferences, further of thematic working groups with broad expert participation meeting at the annual round table conferences, and of project activities that are ongoing throughout the year. In addition, the ongoing work carried out in the U.D. and at our embassies in the dialogue countries, in the form of continuous follow-up to human rights issues, will be in individual cases or for individuals, preparations for political visits, and through support and assistance for project activities and the planning of the round table conferences, where, as I said, civil society plays an important role in its participation. Interpellant asks about the Ministry's resource use. Then I have to remind you that the dialogues are not an isolated part – an isolated chapter – of our extensive MR work, they need to be seen in the context. The group working with the MR dialogues includes case handlers in the U.D. Human Rights and Democracy sections and for Norway's relations with the Asian countries at our embassies in Beijing, Hanoi and Jakarta. The total cost of the dialogues amounted to nearly 25 million. kr in 2009. Closer to 85 pst. of the funds goes to project cooperation between Norwegian experts and partners in the countries. The Norwegian Centre for Human Rights is the main partner through its own country programmes for the dialogues. What concrete results do we then see of these dialogues? That's an important question, and we're going to keep assessing the impact of our efforts, of course. But we also need to realise that it is demanding to measure — as other countries have experienced — for example. quantitatively a work that needs to be understood to such an extent qualitatively and in the long term. There is no simple tool for measuring human rights work or the effect of engagement policy. Of course, it is demanding to point out that there was or lies a specific Norwegian input on the basis of major change processes in countries such as China, Indonesia and Vietnam. Changes in this area can be linked to many reasons and to long chain of causes: economic conditions, trade, economics, media influence, international relations, law, culture and religion. We know that the MR conventions affect the development of a country, not least because they have close universal recognition and have clear obligations for individual countries that have ratified them. And in the implementation of the conventions at country level, the dialogues are an instrument, and we – as a dialogue partner – have to see ourselves as a possible ‘change agent’. Of course, the meetings themselves are important milestones. But the activity between the round tables is crucial. This is why we work through concrete projects aimed at specific MR challenges in cooperation with national professional communities. Here I believe we see concrete results – such as the number of people who have followed the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights programmes on human rights education, the number of policemen who have participated in seminars on prisoners' rights and the number of psychiatrists who have participated in the Medical Association's human rights and psychiatry seminars. We must believe and assume that such participation produces results over time, because it is about people participating. We are told that people on Norwegian prisoner lists are getting better terms because the dialogues have given extra opportunity to address this. We see that the dialogues facilitate better contact between authorities and civil society in the dialogue countries, and we must assume that people benefit. But let me add: these measurable results are one side of the case; another is the experience we contribute to the participants on the other side. Here it is demanding, but also meaningful. We have dialogue with countries where much remains; that is also the starting point for the dialogues. As a result, as we carry out our work, we will experience that the situation in the MR field continues to lie below pari. Yes, we can even experience setbacks. Then it is important for us to use the channels we have provided, to say clearly from and be very clear that the dialogues should not get more legitimate critical regime behaviour. Of course, we're not conducting MR dialogue at all costs. We therefore need to ask, reflect and assess: what means does Norway have for countries such as China, Vietnam and Indonesia? China’s leading international position and growing self-confidence are evident. Indonesia, with the largest Muslim population in the world, has the potential to bridge the West. Vietnam is in strong economic development, is undertaking extensive reforms and is in a break-up period in order to facilitate greater transparency in society. Let me repeat: the MR dialogues do not replace other instruments. They form part of a web of measures that can support countries in preventing human rights violations, strengthening institutions and civil society, combating corruption, contributing to gender equality, protecting MR champions together with the international instruments and together with our focus on individual issues. It should therefore not be a either-or-debate on what are possible options for action; that we either need to choose a line that focuses on promoting individual cases through protests and actions bilaterally or multilaterally, or that we need to choose a longer-term approach through dialogue and focus on building skills over time and within a demanding field. On the contrary: all instruments must be used. I doubt the question of attaching too much weight to ‘benchmarks’ – i.e. measurable factors. To that, as I said, the causal relationship in a country's development, including the MR field, is too wide and complex. But I want to repeat: there are of course'red lines'. I would say that if we experience that our dialogues are being used to legitimize violations of human rights, the legitimacy of the dialogue is being put to the test. In our experience up until now, I believe that the dialogues are valuable – especially when they are set up against the option: interrupted dialogue, fewer contacts, fewer channels. In other words, we need to be able to balance between promoting individual matters and working for the long-term improvement of the MR situation at macro level. It is demanding, but meaningful, to ensure that we succeed in such a balance. Let me conclude by saying that during the last decade, Norwegian governments have considered the MR dialogues as a good tool for foreign policy. I notice that the government of Bondevik II started two of them, and that says respect for it. They create the opportunity to engage countries in matters that are important to us, and they provide Norwegian partners with increased knowledge and broader contact networks. The tone is open and direct, and I can guarantee the Storting that our opponents in China, Indonesia and Vietnam are well aware of Norway's view of issues such as freedom of expression, human rights defenders and the death penalty. Dialogues are not diminishing, they are increasing our ability to address human rights violations. Cooperation results in Norway being more concrete, more relevant, taking advantage of the room for opportunity, and Norwegian experts following developments in partner countries over time. This is in some good human rights policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e932	I share the foreign minister's analysis of a number of the factors I'm trying to draw up in the interpellation. First of all, it is important that the human rights dialogues are not the only response – that we have more responses that need to be used. These dialogues must never be allowed to be a sleep cushion in order not to raise questions about human rights violations when they occur. But there are positive elements in the dialogues, well advanced both in my speech and in the intervention of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. A few of those I want to draw out, and which I share with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are among others. participation. Here, the Norwegian Center for MR has done a good job. It is positive that we help countries ratify internationally important agreements, but at the same time there are problems, such as: related to Vietnam having already ratified the UN Declaration of Human Rights. This is a Vietnam statement that breaks daily, so ratification doesn't necessarily mean you're dealing with what you've ratified. But it's positive that you do it, and you have to make demands that you actually take it over. Then, given the objectives set by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the dialogues, I think it is important that we try again to get a political workshop more than just officials in charge of the dialogues. I want to demand three things from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We need to get an evaluation in place. No matter how difficult it is to evaluate, we need a full evaluation of the dialogues. It's better to sit down and figure out individual factors and trends than to just settle down and make sure that this is definitely going forward. The EU and Canada have evaluated their dialogues. They have been clear that they have not functioned properly. I also believe that an evaluation of the Norwegian dialogues will mean that we can at least change the course to some extent. So I want to focus on the importance of openness around the dialogues. It is important, not only for Norway, but also for the dialogue countries, that there is full transparency about what is being addressed and that we are critical in the dialogues, there is no doubt about it. We can sometimes be even more critical. We can certainly be more clear about what is being reported or not reported. It showed one example I had, that one of the dialogue countries is very much aware of that. The last point goes on criteria. What criteria should be used for any new countries when opening up any new MR dialogues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e947	We deplored the fact that the Chinese did not deal with a politician in the previous dialogue, but I actually understand that because he became the spokesperson of China in Copenhagen. The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs was sent to Copenhagen instead during the interview in the negotiations there. It's an explanation that really stands for believers. Anyway, it was a good round. To the three points that were raised: I don't want to say that we don't have an evaluation of the dialogues. I experience that we have very thorough evaluations after each round. But I'm going to include as a constructive input the question of whether you should have a large methodological evaluation of the whole institute – the dialogues – that we've had for ten years. I will carefully assess whether there is a good use of resources, and whether the review we have of experience now may be more reflective in relation to the Storting. But it's a constructive input. Openness around the dialogue I fully agree with, but it also needs to be balanced a little bit because we're dealing with countries where openness is a very rare commodity in this kind of case. If we want the quality and the ability to walk on the blade of such dialogues, well, this is an exchange relationship, where getting close to and pointing out sensitive things could go down if we expose it too much. But I think everyone should be aware that we're very busy with openness. In terms of criteria, I mentioned some. It may make sense to make a set of criteria, but we are well aware that it varies a little from country to country based on what opportunities we see opening up. The representative asked questions about opening up new countries, if any. Very familiar we haven't reflected on it because we've invested quite heavily on the three we have. We have human rights consultations with a wide range of other countries, such as the United States and Japan. Russia. I don't want to exclude going into a fourth or fifth dialogue country, but as I said, it's quite resource-intensive – 25 million. kr per year. So we want to make those dialogues as good as possible. So the Canadians have discovered that it's almost impossible to measure results, but it shouldn't lead us to believe that these are not results. We can come back to it later, but there's a long list of examples of that beyond what I mentioned in my post. Now that China is presenting its first human rights action plan, I see that there are many shortcomings in it, and it is written in a special context. Well, that's one of the things. textbook and human rights training for past human rights education, inspired by the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo. This is one of several examples. I myself have been present at meetings between Indonesian military and Norwegian professional communities as regards human rights in the military, the treatment of soldiers, etc. This was an area they were concerned about, and I am absolutely sure that this mattered. I do not forget the meeting with Chinese lawyers who said that they had invaluable benefit from the offer they had received from NHO and LO when they were to design Chinese labour law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e960	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the interpellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a thorough review of the work in this area. It's an important field, and it's a demanding field. In the process of building an increasingly fair and better world with international institutions and common values, respect for human rights is absolutely fundamental, especially for the sake of the individual. This is also a foundation for how countries behave towards their own inhabitants, but also for the inter-country relationship. A year ago, I attended a conference in England, where the theme was foreign and security policy in Obama's time. Chinese researcher Song Xinning of the UN University told us that there are three different views in the Academy of China about how China should deal with Europe. One school sees China and the EU as strategic partners. The second school claims that China and the EU should cooperate on a new world economic order, i.e. join forces with the United States. And the third school says, should we forget Europe? The world's continent is stagnating economically and is on its way to the old world home. I'm pointing at this because it's a reminder that the other thing is looking at us, can be quite different from what we see ourselves. But what others see is part of the reality in which human rights work and human rights dialogues are to be conducted. In this work, patient realism is a prerequisite for achieving results. In this area, I think we need to pick up inspiration from President Kennedy's description of himself, as an idealist without illusions. The UN Human Rights Council will be an important venue for our human rights work. I attended the hearing of Norway in Geneva before Christmas. The self-searching openness of Norway demonstrated a standard in its report and in the hearing. Because, although much is good in Norway and in Western welfare countries in terms of human rights, there is a situation where critical searchlights can and should be put on. The will to brighten dark and dark hooks in ourselves gives legitimacy when we set the search light against others. International human rights arenas are important, because there are countries that can test their own standards against our common value base in this area, the Human Rights Framework. In the interpellation, the representative Gitmark shows that the critics describe the human rights dialogues as games for the gallery, where closed forums can address issues that are convenient for both parties, and that this weakens Norwegian criticism of violations of human rights. Then I want to ask: what are these critics' options? The human rights dialogue is driven to help improve the situation in these countries, not to show how good we are at home. Therefore, this work must be based on confidence that those who participate in the dialogues do their job, that they address the difficult issues and themes, because it may be that doing so in what I would call full floodlights, works against its purpose and will just prove to be the game for the gallery that the critics are talking about. Openness, yes – but the form of openness must be in the context pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to the countries with which we are talking. If you don't, you can risk this closing out the possibilities of getting there. The representative of Gitmark said that the countries with which we are in dialogue must show the same openness as we do when it comes to critical views of ourselves. That, of course, must be an objective. But how do we achieve that? That's the big question. What do we do if it doesn't happen? We're going from the round table, or are we going to continue? We can't force anyone else. They must be lured and inspired. Then, of course, it can happen that we get into situations where these dialogues are abused, for domestic or foreign purposes, and for that reason should end. To illustrate how demanding it is to work for improvements and international standards, we can point to an area like our free trade agreements. The issue of respect for professional rights has been raised in the context of the Free Trade Agreement concluded with Colombia. In EFTA, two groups are working – one that looks at how we can best get ‘Labour Standards’ into free trade agreements, and one that looks at how we can ensure good environmental standards. What's the problem is that when we raise demands in these negotiations, the counterparty will accuse us of running protectionism, because they see it as an exclusion from our market. There's no direct link to the human rights work, but it's part of it, and it shows how demanding this work is.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e990	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a good interpellant on an important topic, and I would like to start by saying that I support the proposals and considerations put forward by the representative Gitmark. I share the view that we should have a balanced approach to this issue. It's not an alternative to just bet on dialogue or say it doesn't show up. But it's clear that it's going to be a challenge – and that's where I feel that the interpellant takes up a core point – when we've had a dialogue with a demanding state like China over many years, more than ten years, without saying that things have improved measurablely. There are, of course, limitations in what Norway alone can do, but there may also have to be some kind of impatience among those who are talking to China. How do we communicate that? Here, I think transparency is important. There is not only transparency towards the counterparty in ‘full floodlights’, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen said, but openness in Norway about the questions we choose to address. In order to problem this with transparency, some people would argue that, for example: China, Vietnam and Indonesia want dialogue to virtually close difficult problems into one forum and avoid them being brought up anywhere else. I do not think we should underestimate the sensitivity of these countries, including a country like China. They're concerned with how they're perceived in the international arena. I share the reflection that problematic questions can best be solved by doing so in a confidential way. But we're not going to underestimate the possibility of talking for an open microphone when there's a need. I'm not least thinking about the Chinese population, which, of course, it's difficult and demanding for us to reach. To what extent are they familiar with the dialogue that is taking place, the themes that are being addressed? And to what extent can Norway draw attention to these dialogues? Norway has a lot to contribute. Examples of this have been mentioned. That's right. But when we have had a dialogue over so many years, we also need to consider in the evaluation whether these resources could be better used to other countries, countries that are more susceptible, more willing, to implement the advice, the proposals and the contributions that we can make. That must also be part of the assessment. Because it is resource-intensive to do human rights work — and we will — but perhaps not necessarily in the way we do it now in these three countries. It creates expectations, and some of the impatience that I feel we're bringing up here in the Chamber today is the desire for an improvement in the field of human rights. Some of the responsibility lies to the extent of us when we assume an obligation to enter into a long-term dialogue with a country. Then we want to see results. If we do not get results, we must at least be very clear about it, open about it, and we must clearly express our disappointment in a way that cannot be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1001	The Christian People's Party has a fundamental belief in dialogue in its foreign policy. We believe that in the fight for greater respect for human rights, isolation has very rarely led to results. A complete cut-off of relationships may give the impression of being a strong reaction to a regime that we don't like, but the long-term effects have rarely been positive. On the contrary, trade, cross-border contacts and dialogue at all levels are, in most cases, the main means of change. The Christian People’s Party is therefore fundamentally in favour of Norway entering into human rights dialogues with countries that have the potential for improvement in their relation to human rights. But there is also an important debate on the part of the representative Gitmark, because we still need to evaluate how the human rights dialogues in which we are involved bear fruit in the form of tangible signs of progress. A dialogue where the other party does not give any character to take the theme seriously is not a real dialogue. At best, we could spend the money better, but at worst, as many people have done, we could help decorate the situation in a country with serious human rights violations. The dialogue can be an easy way for authoritarian regimes to avoid public criticism. Dialogue should therefore be followed up with other instruments. In cooperation with other countries, targeted sanctions against the elite in the country where human rights violations occur have been shown to lead to results. Dialogue where human rights-related requirements are linked to opportunities to lift targeted penalties has proved to be effective strategies. For example, the EU has: recent such a line towards Belarus, with much better results in a short time than many years of isolation. There will be a fundamentally different situation if the dialogue is conducted on premises set by the authoritarian regime in Norway. I need to underline that in this debate. Because there are signs that this is exactly what has happened in Norway's human rights dialogue with Cuba in recent years. In order to engage the authorities in dialogue, Norway has had to agree to stop, for example: to invite opposition representatives to the celebration of Norway’s national day and to give them access to the internet at the embassy. The regime's ultimatum has also been accepted that, during official visits to Cuba, meetings with representatives of the opposition must be dispensed with in order to have the opportunity to meet representatives of the Cuban Government. I've had the pleasure of visiting Cuba, and I've become particularly familiar with one of the oppositionals that the Government will not meet, namely the Christian Democrat Osvaldo Payá. Payá has been at the forefront of the work on human rights in Cuba through peaceful instruments such as the collection of signatures and invitations to dialogue. I have this year actually had the honour of nominating Osvaldo Payá at the Nobel Peace Prize for this very work. Payá says he does not want foreign interference in Cuba, but he wants solidarity with the Cuban people, who are denied their fundamental rights, and he marvels at how little critical many Western countries and among them Norway is against the Cuban regime. The Norwegian fulfilment of all Cuban dialogue requirements would probably be acceptable if the dialogue showed signs of results for the Cuban people. However, there is little to suggest. On the contrary, the situation in Cuba seems to be getting worse, new human rights activists are being arrested, and old prisoners of conscience are dying because they do not receive the necessary food and medicines in prison. The fate of Agustin Cervantes Garcia, who was arrested in the autumn due to the collection of signatures in support of human rights, is an example of the first. The fate of Normando Hernández, who last year received the Norwegian Association's freedom of expression prize, is an example of the second. There is reason to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this very topic. We get results from human rights dialogues, for example: With Cuba, or has the dialogue just led to justify criticism of Cuba's authoritarian regime? Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider supporting the dialogue with other instruments, and will the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider contact with the entire political Cuba, including the opposition, in order to achieve a more effective policy and promote human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1016	Our common starting point is that the world has too little democracy and too little respect for human rights. The question thus becomes how Norway can use its limited resources both economically and not least humanly to help promote it. There are a number of human rights activists around the world that we would all like to have increased protection. We know that international attention has a meaning, in some cases actually negative, but largely positive. When I met Thanh Thuy in Vietnam, I ended up being thrown out of the country, and Thanh Thuy got even more threats. She was imprisoned again last week, for crimes she has not committed, and this time her husband has also received two and a half years in prison. China as a country is encircled by dialogues, and everyone has in common the desire to contribute to China's democratic development. At the same time, however, the two who have evaluated, Canada and the EU, have been critical in their evaluation. That means that I hope that the Foreign Minister can be even clearer in what he is now saying about evaluation. I certainly believe that the dialogues can and will have an effect. But how do we ensure that the dialogues have the greatest possible effect? Is there today's use of dialogue, also in relation to Vietnam, where there are only official dialogues, which are the best? To Svein Roald Hansen: It is not difficult to fully agree that it is difficult with individual countries and openness. The Foreign Minister said the same thing. But at the same time, I believe that the representative of Höglund is absolutely right when he says that the importance of transparency also applies here in Norway, but that the inhabitants of the dialogue country actually need to know that there is a human rights dialogue going on. I experience this theme as a constructive theme we can discuss in Stortinget, and I perceive that the Foreign Minister is taking the theme seriously. At the same time, I have to say from a personal point of view that I would like to see a foreign ministry that was even clearer in the condemnation of, among other things. single prisons of opposition, that Norway must use the opportunity we have to condemn the prison of Thanh Thuy, to condemn the imprisonment of oppositionals in China, or for that matter in Cuba, and we must be clear from both the dialogue and outside that such treatment is out of date and is contrary to human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1027	Thank you to the interpellant, who is constantly involved in these matters, and I appreciate that. It's been a good debate, and I think we have a common platform. The rural programmes, for which the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights is responsible, will be evaluated during the spring. They are an important component of the human rights dialogue, and they provide us with a starting point for sharing experiences from how this works. As far as Vietnam is concerned, I would like to mention that we want to have dialogue at political level and participate, among other things. with a State Secretary. Then we'll see how it works, but I'll be absolutely clear that if we find that the counterparty's interests are so keen that we don't interfere with the real issues, it's not worth spending money on. So we have to feel that all the time. There is no prestige attached to it, but I think the representative Skovholt Gitmark met quite well by saying that the option, namely to close the door and have no dialogue, should also be considered carefully. We have to live with China, they're going to be there in so many areas that having intervention in many ways is important. So it was about resource use, and Höglund said we could spend the money on other things. We can do that all the time. We're going to spend about 400 million dollars. SEK in the year on human rights-related issues, 25 million. on these dialogues we think is a good investment, but we have to keep having the critical question with us. To the representative, Eriksen: If it is the case that countries use the dialogues to ‘pain on the situation’ in their own country, as the representative mentioned it, well, then it is in the category I mentioned – if you want to legitimize human rights violations with the dialogue, it is, of course, unacceptable. Then the representative Eriksen brought up Cuba quite fully. Let me just formally state that we do not have a human rights dialogue with Cuba that we have with the three other countries that Gitmark's representative brought up. We can discuss Cuba – it is an exciting topic – but not in this category of issue, where we have a structured dialogue with rural programmes. I would like to reject the fact that Norway has no contact with individual ships in Cuba, follows up the role of opposition and also says off. It is precisely in order to intervene with the authorities in Cuba that we have arranged for the embassy to operate largely with the embassy, namely diplomatic work and contact work. I have today signed a letter to the Stortinget supporting the Storting's inter-political initiative for the detention of the Hernández conscience, and also explaining some of what we are doing in relation to Cuba. I believe that the human rights dialogues are what Norway has developed. It is followed with great interest by other countries. It's true that China has dialogue with many, but I think ours is among the most qualitatively comprehensive. It is again due to rural programmes, civil society participation and the exchange of experts. It's a resource I think we're getting a lot out of. I met some of the leading participants in this last week in another context, which expressed that they saw the value of it. Then, of course, they're going to criticize and suggest improvements after each round. That is part of the evaluation, and we will continue to follow it up, in line with what I said in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1049	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1146	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1156	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1186	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-02-16.ana.ud2293e1291	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
